                                    Abstract of the Disclosure
        A system for providing thermal comfort for a person within a space comprising a
plurality of interconnected zones, such as a single room in a residence, commercial
establishment, or industrial location. At least one fan is positioned in each zone, which may be
an overhead fan mounted to a ceiling common to two or more of the zones, and a sensor is
provided for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones.        A controller is adapted for
controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of another fan based on the sensed
condition in the at least one zone including the controlled fan. Related aspects of a thermal
comfort control system and methods are also disclosed.

       INTEGRATED THERMAL COMFORT CONTROL SYSTEM UTILIZING
                                  CIRCULATING FANS
        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. Nos.
61/720,679, 61/755,627, and 61/807,903, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
        This application claims priority from Australian Patent Application No. 2013337839, the
entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                        BACKGROUND
        A variety of fan systems have been made and used over the years in a variety of
contexts. For instance, various ceiling fans are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,284,960, entitled
"Fan Blades," issued October 23, 2007; U.S. Pat. No. 6,244,821, entitled "Low Speed Cooling
Fan," issued June 12, 2001; U.S. Pat. No. 6,939,108, entitled "Cooling Fan with Reinforced
Blade," issued September 6, 2005; and U.S. Pat. No. D607,988, entitled "Ceiling Fan," issued
January 12, 2010. The disclosures of each of those U.S. patents are incorporated by reference
herein. Additional exemplary fans are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2008/0008596, entitled
"Fan Blades," published January 10, 2008; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0208333, entitled "Ceiling
Fan System with Brushless Motor," published August 20, 2009; and U.S. Pat. Pub. No.
2010/0278637, entitled "Ceiling Fan with Variable Blade Pitch and Variable Speed Control,"
published November 4, 2010, the disclosures of which are also incorporated by reference herein.
It should be understood that teachings herein may be incorporated into any of the fans described
in any of the above-referenced patents, publications, or patent applications.
        It should also be understood that a fan may include sensors or other features that are used
to control, at least in part, operation of a fan system.     For instance, such fan systems are
disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0097975, entitled "Ceiling Fan with Concentric Stationary
                                                -1-

Tube and Power-Down Features," published April 16, 2009, the disclosure of which is
incorporated by reference herein; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0162197, entitled "Automatic Control
System and Method to Minimize Oscillation in Ceiling Fans," published June 25, 2009, the
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein; U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2010/0291858,
entitled "Automatic Control System for Ceiling Fan Based on Temperature Differentials,"
published November 18, 2010, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein; and
U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61/165,582, entitled "Fan with Impact Avoidance System
Using Infrared," filed April 1, 2009, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
Alternatively, any other suitable control systems/features may be used in conjunction with
embodiments described herein.
        Automatic control devices for heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems
("HVAC") in homes and other structures may be used to activate or deactivate an air heating or
cooling system and its associated air delivery blowers in response to commands from a control
module/logic executing an procedure based on data from one or more air dry bulb (and/or wet
bulb) temperature sensors located within the structure.       The addition of ceiling fans may
improve the efficiency of an HVAC system by circulating the air, thus preventing the formation
of pockets of heated or cooled air in locations that do not benefit the occupants, or in which an
increased difference between indoor and outdoor temperatures across an exterior wall and roof
increases the rate of heat transfer through the surface. Another added benefit of ceiling fans, is
that when the circulating air created by the fans comes into contact with human skin, the rate of
heat transfer away from the human body increases, thus generating a cooling effect which
allows for more efficient use of the HVAC system during periods of cooling. However, in
general practice, the circulating fans operate independently of the HVAC system, rather than
automatically working in close coordination with it. The fans may be operated continuously, or
alternately they may be turned on and off manually; the result can be either that the fans
continue to operate and consume power when they are not needed, or that they remain idle at
times when their operation might improve the efficiency of the HVAC system.
        The examples described herein comprise an integrated thermal comfort control system
that utilizes both air circulating fans and an HVAC system in a coordinated fashion, so as to
obtain the desired effect of acceptable levels of occupant thermal comfort and adjustment in a
                                                -2-

manner that minimizes power consumption for any given condition.
         While a variety of climate control systems have been made and used, it is believed that
no one prior to the inventors has made or used a thermal comfort control system as described
herein.
                                           SUMMARY
         One aspect of the disclosure pertains to a system for providing thermal comfort in a
space comprising a plurality of interconnected zones. The system comprises at least one fan
positioned in each zone of the space, and a sensor for sensing a condition in at least one of the
zones. A controller is adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of
another fan based on the sensed condition in the one zone including the controlled fan.
         In one embodiment, the fan comprises an overhead fan mounted to a ceiling in a room
including the space comprising the plurality of interconnected zones. The sensor may comprise
a sensor selected from the group consisting of a temperature sensor, an occupancy sensor, a light
sensor, a humidity sensor, a physiological sensor, or any combination thereof. The controller
may comprise a master controller for controlling each fan in the space, and the system may also
or alternatively include an individual controller for controlling at least one of the fans.    For
example, the controller may optionally comprise a handheld device controlled by a person in the
space.
         The system may include an HVAC system for conditioning the space, which HVAC
system may be controlled by the controller.        The system may further include a plurality of
sensors, each for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones. Each sensor may be connected
to at least one fan in the zone. Each sensor may be fixedly mounted within the zone other than
to the fan.
         At least one of the fans further includes a light, and the controller may be adapted to
control the light. The system may further include an automated blind, and the controller may be
adapted for controlling the automated blind. The fan may include any one or more of a wireless
signal booster, a camera, a speaker, a sound generator, an air purifier, a scent generator, or any
combination thereof.
                                                -3 -

        The sensor may be adapted for detecting the presence of a particular individual.          A
device may be carried by an individual and adapted for being detected by the sensor.             An
individual user may be allowed to control the fan in the at least one zone by transmitting a code
to the controller.
        The controller may be adapted to determine a control response based upon an average or
a particular temperature set range and a thermal and/or occupancy condition in each individual
zone. The controller may be adapted to activate or shutdown a fan in any zone depending upon
a sensed thermal and/or occupancy condition.          The controller may be adapted for controlling
an HVAC system for supplying air to the space, and further including one or more automated
dampers for automatically diverting air to occupied zones and away from unoccupied zones.
        A further aspect of the disclosure pertains to a system for providing thermal comfort for
a person within a room comprising a plurality of interconnected zones. The system comprises at
least one fan positioned in each zone of the room, and a sensor for sensing a condition in at least
one of the zones.      A controller is adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone
independent of another fan based on the sensed condition in the at least one zone including the
controlled fan.
        The system may include a heat load in the at least one zone. A cooling source may also
be provided in the at least one zone.        The room may include a ceiling, and each fan may
comprise an overhead fan mounted to the ceiling. In any embodiment, the controller may be
adapted for controlling a first fan in a first zone and a second fan in a second zone based upon
an occupancy condition of the respective zone. Likewise, the controller may be adapted for
controlling a first fan in a first zone and a second fan in a second zone based upon a temperature
of the respective zone.
        A further aspect of this disclosure pertains to a room comprising a plurality of
interconnected zones with at least one fan positioned in each zone of the room.                  An
improvement comprises a sensor for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones, and a
controller adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of another fan
based on the sensed condition in the at least one zone including the controlled fan. The at least
one zone may include a heat load or a cooling source. The room may include at least four walls
separating the room from an outdoor environment, and at least one of the zones includes a portal
                                                  -4-

through at least one of the walls.    The room may include a ceiling, and each fan may comprise
an overhead fan mounted to the ceiling in the room.
        A related method relates to creating a microclimate in a plurality of zones within a space,
each zone including an independently controlled fan.       The method comprises sensing a first
condition in a first zone including a first fan, controlling the first fan based on the first
condition, sensing a second condition in a second zone including a second fan, and controlling
the second fan based on the sensed condition. The sensing steps may be performed based on
sensors in different zones within in a single room serving as the space. The method may include
the step of sensing the first condition comprises sensing a temperature in the first zone. The step
of sensing may comprise temperature, occupancy, humidity, or any combination thereof.
        Still a further aspect of the disclosure pertains to a system for controlling the thermal
comfort of a person. The system may comprise a sensor for sensing a physiological condition of
the person, and a fan adapted for being controlled based on the sensed physiological condition.
The sensor may be selected from the group consisting of a wristband, armband, belt, watch,
glasses, clothing accessory, an object adapted for being ingested by or embedded in the person,
and any combination thereof. The fan may comprise an overhead fan, and the physiological
condition may be selected from the group consisting of metabolic equivalent of task (MET),
heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, body temperature, respiration, weight, perspiration, blood
oxygen level, galvanic skin response, and combinations thereof.
        The sensor may be adapted for transmitting data about the physiological condition
directly to a controller or via an intermediate device, and the controller may be adapted to
determine a comfort control setting based a condition selected from the group consisting of
external temperature, room occupancy, and/or time of day. The controller may include control
settings selected from the group consisting of occupied heating, unoccupied heating, occupied
cooling, and unoccupied cooling.          The control setting may comprise a programmable
temperature set range and/or an option to operate the fan as a part of a sequence of operations of
an HVAC system in response to the temperature being outside the set range.
        Still another aspect of the disclosure relates to a system for controlling the thermal
comfort of a person. The system comprises a sensor for sensing a light level, a fan having a fan
speed, and a controller for regulating the fan speed based on the sensed light level. The sensor
                                                -5-

may be connected to the fan, or a light switch.
        Yet another aspect of the disclosure pertains to a system for controlling the thermal
comfort of a person. The system comprises a sensor for sensing a light level, and a fan for
circulating air. A controller is provided for starting the fan based on the sensed light level. In
other words, the fan is actuated from a stationary condition when the light level is at or above a
pre-determined amount.
        A further aspect of this disclosure relates to a system for controlling the climate in a
space. The system comprises a fan for circulating air within the space, a ventilator for supplying
air to the space, and a controller adapted for controlling the fan for circulating air within the
space and the ventilator for supplying air to the space. The space may comprise a plurality of
zones, and the system may further includes one or more automated dampers controlled by the
controller for automatically diverting air from the ventilator to one zone and away from another
zone. Each zone may include a fan and an occupancy sensor, and the dampers are controlled to
automatically divert air from the ventilator to an occupied zone and away from an unoccupied
zone.
        This disclosure also pertains to a system for controlling the climate in a space. The
system comprises a fan for circulating air within the space, and a controller adapted for
actuating the fan when (but not only when) the space is determined to be unoccupied (in
anticipation of later being occupied).   The occupancy sensor may be provided for sensing the
presence of a person in the space. The controller may control the actuation of the fan based on a
predicted time of occupancy.
        Also forming a part of this disclosure is a system for controlling the climate in a space,
comprising a fan located in the space for circulating air within the space, and a controller
adapted for operating the fan based on a predicted occupancy of the space. The controller may
be adapted for actuating the fan at a time prior to the predicted occupancy. The controller may
be adapted to operate the fan at a minimal level from the time prior to the predicted occupancy
until at least occupancy being detected by an occupancy sensor. The controller may also be
adapted to activate a device for cleaning air within the space prior to the predicted occupancy.
        Another aspect of this disclosure is a system for controlling the climate in multiple
zones.   The system comprises a first fan for circulating air in a first zone, a first occupancy
                                                -6-

sensor for sensing an occupancy condition of the first zone, a second fan for circulating air in a
second zone, and a second occupancy sensor for sensing occupancy in the second zone.               A
single controller is provided for controlling the first fan and the second fan based on the sensed
occupancy of the first and second zones. The controller may be adapted to control the first fan
to operate when the first zone is occupied, and to control the second fan not to operate when the
second zone is unoccupied. The controller may also be adapted to control the first and second
fans to operate based on a time of day.
        This disclosure also pertains to a system for controlling the climate in a space. The
system comprises a fan for circulating air within the space, a ventilator for supplying air to the
space, and a controller for controlling the ventilator.       The controller may be adapted for
actuating the fan prior to controlling the ventilator supplying air to the space. The ventilator
may comprise an HVAC system connected to a sensor, the fan comprises an overhead fan
positioned in the space, and the controller is adapted for communicating with the sensor to
operate the fan in advance of the actuation of the HVAC system.
        Also part of this disclosure is a system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising
a fan for circulating air within the space, and a conditioner for conditioning air in the space. A
controller is provided for controlling the conditioner, the controller further adapted for actuating
the fan prior to the conditioner conditioning the air.        The conditioner may, for example,
comprise a heater.
        A further aspect of this disclosure is a system for controlling the climate in a space. The
system comprises a fan located in the space for circulating air within the space, and a controller
adapted for monitoring the energy consumption of the fan. The controller may be adapted for
regulating the operation of fan based on an energy price at a given time. The controller may
also be adapted for providing a warning if an amount of energy consumption is exceeded.
        The disclosure also relates to a system for providing security information to a device of a
user relating to a space in which the climate is controlled.       The system comprises a fan for
circulating air within the space, and a security device associated with the fan and adapted for
generating an indication of an event on the user's device relating to the security of the space.
The security device may comprise an occupancy sensor, or possibly a camera (in which case the
indication may comprise one or more video images of the space obtained from the camera for
                                                 -7-

display on the user's device).
         Methods form other aspects of the disclosure, such as for example a method for
controlling the thermal comfort of a person. The method comprises sensing a light level and
regulating the speed of a fan based on the sensed light level. The regulating step may comprise
increasing the speed from a first speed to a second speed when the light level increases from a
first level to a second level. The regulating step may comprise decreasing the speed from a first
speed to a second speed when the light level decreases from a first level to a second level.
         A method for controlling the thermal comfort of a person is provided.        The method
comprises sensing a light level.     The method further comprises actuating a fan based on the
sensed light level.
         A related method to the disclosure comprises controlling the climate in a space by
circulating air within the space using a fan, conditioning the air in the space, and controlling
both the circulation and conditioning of the air using a single controller. The controlling step
may comprise controlling one of the fan or a ventilator for supplying conditioned air to the
space based on a sensed condition in the space. The controlling step may comprise controlling
one of the fan or a heater for heating air in the space based on a sensed condition in the space.
The controlling step may comprise controlling the fan to operate prior to the ventilator based on
a sensed condition in the space. The method may further include the step of using the controller
to open one or more dampers to control the supply of air to the space.       In the case where an
occupancy sensor is provided, the method comprises diverting air from an occupied zone to an
unoccupied zone of the space.
         A related aspect of the disclosure pertains to a method for controlling the climate in a
space.    The method comprises determining whether a space is occupied and, following a
determination that the space is unoccupied, actuating a fan for circulating air in the space. The
method may further include the step of actuating the fan based on a predicted time of
occupancy.
         A related method for controlling the climate in a space comprises actuating a fan for
circulating air in the space based on a predicted time of occupancy of the space by a person.
The method may further include the step of actuating the fan at a predetermined time prior to the
predicted occupancy. The method may further include the step of operating the fan at a first
                                                 -8-

speed from the time prior to the predicted occupancy until at least occupancy being detected,
and then operating the fan at a second, higher speed. Any disclosed method may include the
step of cleaning a portion of the air, including, for example, prior to the predicted occupancy.
        A further disclosed method for controlling the climate in a space comprises providing a
fan for circulating air within the space, and providing a ventilator for supplying air to the space.
The method comprises providing a controller adapted for actuating the fan prior to actuating the
ventilator for supplying air to the space.
         Still a further aspect of the disclosure relates to a method for controlling the climate in a
space. The method comprises providing a fan located in the space for circulating air within the
space, monitoring the energy consumption of the fan, and regulating the fan based on the
monitored energy consumption. The regulating step may comprise regulating the operation of
fan based on an energy price at a given time. The method may further include the step of a
warning when a pre-determined amount of energy consumption is exceeded.
        A method for providing security information to a device of a user relating to a space in
which the climate is controlled is also disclosed.        The method comprises providing a fan for
circulating air within the space, providing a security device associated with the fan, and
generating an indication on the user's device relating to the security device. The security device
may comprise one of an occupancy sensor or a camera, and the method may further include the
step of transmitting a signal from the security device to the user's device to provide the
indication.
                                                  -9-

                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         While the specification concludes with claims which particularly point out and distinctly
claim the invention, it is believed the present invention will be better understood from the
following description of certain examples taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings, in which like reference numerals identify the same elements and in which:
         FIG. 1 depicts a perspective view of an exemplary fan having a motor assembly, a hub
assembly, a support, a plurality of fan blades, and a mounting system coupled with joists;
         FIG. 2 depicts another perspective view of an exemplary fan;
         FIG. 3 depicts a perspective view of an exemplary thermal comfort control system
utilizing circulating fans;
         FIG. 4 depicts a perspective view of a second embodiment of a thermal comfort control
system utilizing circulating fans;
         FIG. 5 depicts a flow diagram of an exemplary thermal comfort control process, that
utilizes the climate control system of FIG. 3;
         FIG. 6 depicts a detailed flow diagram of the exemplary thermal comfort control process
of FIG. 4 in which the master control system has automatically chosen the "Occupied Heating"
mode;
         FIG. 7 depicts a detailed flow diagram of the exemplary thermal comfort control process
of FIG. 4 in which the master control system has automatically chosen the "Unoccupied
Heating" mode;
         FIG. 8 depicts a detailed flow diagram of the exemplary thermal comfort control process
of FIG. 4 in which the master control system has automatically chosen the "Occupied Cooling"
mode;
         FIG. 9 depicts a detailed flow diagram of the exemplary thermal comfort control process
of FIG. 4 in which the master control utilizes the "Occupied Cooling" mode according to a
second embodiment;
         FIG. 10 depicts a detailed flow diagram of the exemplary thermal comfort control
                                                -10-

process of FIG. 4 in which the master control system has automatically chosen the "Unoccupied
Cooling" mode;
        FIG. 11 depicts a thermal comfort control system including independently controlled
fans positioned in multiple zones in a common space, such as a room.
        FIG. 12 depicts a detailed perspective view of the exemplary fan of FIG. 1 having an
occupancy sensor mounted to it.
        FIG. 13 depicts a detailed perspective view of the exemplary fan of FIG. 1 having a
camera mounted to it;
        FIG. 14 depicts a detailed perspective view of the exemplary fan of FIG. 1 having a WI
FI device mounted to it; and
        FIG. 15 depicts a detailed perspective view of the exemplary fan of FIG. 1 having an
audio feature mounted to it.
        The drawings are not intended to be limiting in any way, and it is contemplated that
various embodiments of the invention may be carried out in a variety of other ways, including
those not necessarily depicted in the drawings. The accompanying drawings incorporated in and
forming a part of the specification illustrate several aspects of the present invention, and
together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention; it being
understood, however, that this invention is not limited to the precise arrangements shown.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        The following description of certain examples of the invention should not be used to
limit the scope of the claimed invention. Other examples, features, aspects, embodiments, and
advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following
description, which includes by way of illustration, one or more of the best modes contemplated
for carrying out the invention. As will be realized, the invention is capable of other different
and obvious aspects, all without departing from the invention. Accordingly, the drawings and
descriptions should be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.
                                               - 11 -

        I.      Exemplary Fan Overview
        Referring to FIG. 1, a fan (110) of the present example comprises a motor assembly
(112), a support (114), a hub assembly (116), and a plurality of fan blades (118). In the present
example, fan (110) (including hub assembly (116) and fan blades (118)) has a diameter of
greater than about 3 feet and, more specifically, approximately 8 feet. In other variations, fan
(110) has a diameter between approximately 6 feet, inclusive, and approximately 24 feet,
inclusive. Alternatively, fan (110) may have any other suitable dimensions, such as a 3-7 foot
overhead fan having an ornamental design for use in commercial or residential spaces (see FIG.
2), and having a support (114) mounted to the ceiling (C). The particular type of fan (110) used
is not considered important to controlling thermal comfort, but the concepts disclosed may have
particular applicability to the types of fans for circulating air within a space or room, such as
overhead ceiling fans depending from a ceiling with exposed, rotating blades, as shown in the
drawings. Any embodiment disclosed herein may be considered to operate in connection with
such overhead ceiling fan(s), at a minimum.
        Support (114) is configured to be coupled to a surface or other structure at a first end
such that fan (110) is substantially attached to the surface or other structure. As shown in FIG.
1, one such example of a structure may be a ceiling joist (400). Support (114) of the present
example comprises an elongate metal tube-like structure that couples fan (110) to a ceiling,
though it should be understood that support (114) may be constructed and/or configured in a
variety of other suitable ways as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the
teachings herein. By way of example only, support (114) need not be coupled to a ceiling or
other overhead structure, and instead may be coupled to a wall or to the ground. For instance,
support (114) may be positioned on the top of a post that extends upwardly from the ground.
Alternatively, support (114) may be mounted in any other suitable fashion at any other suitable
location. This includes, but is not limited to, the teachings of the patents, patent publications, or
patent applications cited herein. By way of example only, support (114) may be configured in
accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0072108, entitled "Ceiling Fan with
Angled Mounting," published March 19, 2009, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference herein.     As yet another alternative, support (114) may have any other suitable
configuration.   Furthermore, support (116) may be supplemented in numerous ways.                One
                                                - 12 -

merely illustrative example is described in detail below, while other examples and variations
will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings herein.
         Motor assembly (112) of the present example comprises an AC induction motor having a
drive shaft, though it should be understood that motor assembly (112) may alternatively
comprise any other suitable type of motor (e.g., a permanent magnet brushless DC motor, a
brushed motor, an inside-out motor, etc.).       In the present example, motor assembly (112) is
fixedly coupled to support (114) and rotatably coupled to hub assembly (100).           Furthermore,
motor assembly (112) is operable to rotate hub assembly (116) and the plurality of fan blades
(118). By way of example only, motor assembly (112) may be constructed in accordance with
at least some of the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0208333, entitled "Ceiling Fan System
with Brushless Motor," published August 20, 2009, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference herein. Furthermore, fan (110) may include control electronics that are configured in
accordance with at least some of the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2010/0278637, entitled
"Ceiling Fan with Variable Blade Pitch and Variable Speed Control," published November 4,
2010, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.              Alternatively, motor
assembly (112) may have any other suitable components, configurations, functionalities, and
operability, as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings
herein.
         Hub assembly (116) may be constructed in accordance with at least some of the
teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2010/0278637, entitled "Ceiling Fan with Variable Blade Pitch
and Variable Speed Control," published November 4, 2010, the disclosure of which is
incorporated by reference herein.     Alternatively, hub assembly (116) may be constructed in
accordance with any of the teachings or other patent references cited herein. Still other suitable
ways in which hub assembly (116) may be constructed will be apparent to those of ordinary skill
in the art in view of the teachings herein.         It should also be understood that an interface
component (not shown) may be provided at the interface of each fan blade (118) and hub
assembly (116). By way of example only, such an interface component may be configured in
accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2009/0081045, entitled "Aerodynamic
Interface Component for Fan Blade," published March 26, 2009, the disclosure of which is
incorporated by reference herein. Of course, such an interface component may be omitted if
                                                 - 13 -

desired.
         Fan blades (118) may further be constructed in accordance with some or all of the
teachings of any of the patents, patent publications, or patent applications cited herein.     For
example, fan blades (118) may be configured in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. No.
7,284,960, entitled "Fan Blades," issued October 23, 2007; U.S. Pat. No. 6,244,821, entitled
"Low Speed Cooling Fan," issued June 12, 2001; and/or U.S. Pat. No. 6,939,108, entitled
"Cooling Fan with Reinforced Blade," issued September 6, 2005. The disclosures of each of
those U.S. patents are incorporated by reference herein. As another merely illustrative example,
fan blades (118) may be configured in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No.
2008/0008596, entitled "Fan Blades," published January 10, 2008, the disclosure of which is
also incorporated by reference herein. As yet another merely illustrative example, fan blades
(118) may be configured in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2010/0104461,
entitled "Multi-Part Modular Airfoil Section and Method of Attachment Between Parts,"
published April 29, 2010, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
Alternatively, any other suitable configurations for fan blades (118) may be used in conjunction
with the examples described herein. In the present example, fan blades (118) are formed of
aluminum through an extrusion process such that each fan blade has a substantially uniform
cross section along its length. It should be understood that fan blades (118) may alternatively be
formed using any suitable material, or combination of materials, by using any suitable
technique, or combination of techniques, and may have any suitable cross-sectional properties or
other properties as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings
herein.
         Fan blades (118) of the present example may further include a variety of modifications.
By way of example only, fan blade (118) of the present example further comprises a winglet
(120) coupled to the second end (122) of fan blade (118). Winglets (120) may be constructed in
accordance with some or all of the teachings of any of the patents, patent publications, or patent
applications cited herein. For instance, winglets (120) may be configured in accordance with at
least some of the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 7,252,478, entitled "Fan Blade Modifications,"
issued August 7, 2007, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. As another
merely illustrative example, winglets (120) may be configured in accordance with the teachings
                                               - 14 -

of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2008/0014090, entitled "Cuffed Fan Blade Modifications," published
January 17, 2008, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. As yet another
merely illustrative example, winglets (120) may be configured in accordance with the teachings
of U.S. Pat. No. D587,799, entitled "Winglet for a Fan Blade," issued March 3, 2009, the
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.             Of course, any other suitable
configuration for winglets (120) may be used as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
art in light of the teachings herein.
         It should also be understood that winglet (120) is merely optional. For instance, other
alternative modifications for fan blades (118) may include end caps, angled airfoil extensions,
integrally formed closed ends, or substantially open ends. By way of example only, an angled
extension may be added to the free end of each fan blade (118) in accordance with the teachings
of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2008/0213097, entitled "Angled Airfoil Extension for Fan Blade,"
published September 4, 2008, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. Other
suitable structures that may be associated with second end (122) of each fan blade (118) will be
apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings herein.
         II.      Exemplary Thermal Comfort Control System
         It may be desirable to utilize exemplary fan (110) disclosed above to improve the
efficiency of a typical climate control system, thereby creating a thermal comfort control system
(100). Exemplary fan (110) described above would improve the efficiency of a typical climate
control system by circulating the air, thus preventing the formation of pockets of heated or
cooled air in locations that do not benefit the occupants, or in which an increased difference
between indoor and outdoor temperatures across an exterior wall and roof increases the rate of
heat transfer through the surface. Another added benefit of exemplary fan (110), is that when
the circulating air created by fan (110) comes into contact with human skin, the rate of heat
transfer away from the human body increases, thus generating a cooling effect which allows for
more efficient use of the HVAC system during periods of cooling. By way of example only, an
otherwise standard climate control system may further include at least one exemplary fan (110),
at least one low-elevation sensor (130), at least one high-elevation sensor (140), at least one
occupancy sensor (150), at least one master control system (160), at least one HVAC system
(170), and optionally at least one external sensor (180) as shown in FIG. 3.
                                                 - 15 -

        While exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) is shown as including fan (110)
as described above, it should be understood that any other type of fan may be included in
exemplary thermal comfort control system (100), including combinations of different types of
fans.   Such other fans may include pedestal mounted fans, wall mounted fans, or building
ventilation fans, among others. It should also be understood that the locations of sensors (130,
140, 150, 180) as shown in FIG. 3 are merely exemplary. Sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may be
positioned at any other suitable locations, in addition to or in lieu of the locations shown in FIG.
3. By way of example only high-elevation sensor (140) may be mounted to a joist, to the fan, to
the upper region of a wall, and/or in any other suitable location(s). Various suitable locations
where sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may be located will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in
the art in view of the teachings herein. Furthermore, it should be understood that sensors (130,
140, 150, 180) themselves are mere examples. Sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) maybe modified or
omitted as desired.
        Furthermore, various other kinds of sensors may be used as desired, in addition to or in
lieu of one or more of sensors (130, 140, 150, 180). For example, a physiological sensor (190)
associated with a user may be used to sense a physiological condition of the user, as illustrated
in FIG. 4. The sensed physiological condition may relate to the user's metabolic equivalent of
task (MET), heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, body temperature, respiration, weight,
perspiration, blood oxygen level, galvanic skin response, or any other physiological condition.
By way of example, the physiological sensor (190) may comprise a wearable sensor such as a
wristband, armband, belt, watch, glasses, clothing accessory, or any other sensor capable of
being worn by the user or attached to the user's body. Additionally, the physiological sensor
(190) may comprise an internal sensor, such as a sensor that has been embedded in the user or
ingested by the user.
        In any embodiment, the physiological sensor (190) may be capable of transmitting data
about the user's physiological condition either directly to the master control system (160), or
indirectly to the master controller system (160) via an intermediate device. Communication
between the physiological sensor (190) and the master controller (160) may be wireless, such as
through the use of RF transmissions, Bluetooth, WIFI, or infrared technology. In the case of
communication via an intermediate device, said device may comprise a computer or a portable
                                                - 16 -

computing device such as a tablet computer, smartphone, or any other device capable of
receiving data from the physiological sensor (190) and transmitting said data to the master
controller (160).
         Furthermore, system (100) may receive information from one or more other sources,
including but not limited to online sources. For instance, system (100) may receive one or more
temperature values, other values, procedures, firmware updates, software updates, and/or other
kinds of information via the internet, through wire or wirelessly. Various suitable ways in
which system (100) may communicate with the internet and/or other networks, as well as
various types of information that may be communicated, will be apparent to those of ordinary
skill in the art in view of the teachings herein.
         As shown in FIG. 4, in such an exemplary thermal comfort control system (100), master
control system (160) may determine an appropriate comfort control setting (450) based a
number of conditions which may include external temperature, room occupancy, and/or time of
day, among other factors which may exist. As merely an example of such a comfort control
setting determination (450), master control system (160) may choose between "Heating" or
"Cooling" based upon the internal and/or external sensed temperature, the master control system
may then choose between "Occupied" or "Unoccupied" based upon the sensed occupancy.
These conditions, as well as others, may be communicated to master control system (160) by the
sensors mentioned above (130, 140, 150, 180, 190) and in a manner described below. Although
the appropriate comfort control setting is determined by master control system (160) in
exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) described above, other configurations of a
thermal comfort control system (100) may allow for an occupant to choose between multiple
comfort control settings.      The comfort control settings may include, among other settings:
"Occupied Heating" mode (458), "Unoccupied Heating" mode (456), "Occupied Cooling" mode
(454), and "Unoccupied Cooling" mode (452).              Each setting may have a programmable
temperature set range associated with it, as well as the option to operate fan (110) as a part of a
sequence of operations of HVAC system (170), both in response to the temperature being
outside the relevant set range, and also, where appropriate, in response to other conditions such
as a difference between the high-elevation temperature and the low-elevation temperature in a
particular room as described below.
                                                  - 17 -

        High-elevation sensor(s) (140) and low-elevation sensor(s) (130) will sense the
temperature at various locations throughout a room. The sensors may sense the air-dry bulb
temperature, or wet bulb temperature, but do not necessarily have to sense either.            High
elevation sensor(s) (140) and low-elevation sensor(s) (130) may also sense relative humidity, air
speed, light levels, or other conditions which may exist. Of course, separate dedicated sensors
may also be used to sense such other conditions which may exist.
        In some versions, detected light levels may factor into control procedures by indicating
whether it is sunny outside. For instance, a light sensor (such as, for example, a photocell) may
capture ambient light within a room during daylight hours. Accounting for any light from a
man-made light source, system (100) may react to light levels indicating significant sunlight
reaching a room through one or more windows, such as by increasing cooling effects (such as
by regulating the fan speed (e.g., increasing the speed based on more light being detected)
and/or activating the HVAC system) during summer time or by reducing heating effects during
winter time under the assumption that the sunlight itself will provide at least a perceived heating
effect on occupants of the room.
        As another merely illustrative example, a light sensor may indicate whether a room is
occupied at night (e.g., a lit room at a time associated with night indicates current occupancy or
expected occupancy of the room). As yet another merely illustrative example, detected light
levels may trigger automated raising or lowering of blinds at windows of a room. Other suitable
ways in which light levels may be factored into a control procedure for system (100) will be
apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings herein. Of course, some
versions of system (100) may simply lack light sensing capabilities.
        As shown in FIG. 3, high-elevation sensor(s) (140) may be located on fan (110), ceiling
(200), or elsewhere in a room. Low-elevation sensor(s) (130) may be located at or near the level
in which the room will be occupied. Optionally, the exemplary thermal comfort control system
may include external sensors (180) that will sense the temperature, relative humidity, barometric
pressure, or other conditions that may exist external to the building envelope.             Finally,
occupancy sensor(s) (150) will sense the presence of occupants within a room.            Occupancy
sensor(s) (150) may be placed throughout a room, but may be especially effective in places of
entry, as shown in FIG. 3. Sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may be placed in a single room or zone,
                                                - 18-

or may be placed in multiple rooms or zones. Measurements from high-elevation sensor(s)
(140), low-elevation sensor(s) (130), external sensor(s) (180), and occupancy sensor(s) (150)
may be communicated to the master control system (160).        As a merely illustrative example,
temperature sensors (130, 140) described above may be configured in accordance with the
teachings of U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2010/0291858, entitled "Automatic Control System For Ceiling
Fan Based On Temperature Differentials," published November 18, 2010, the disclosure of
which is incorporated by reference herein. Of course, the locations of sensors (130, 140, 150,
180) described above and shown in FIG. 3, are merely exemplary, and any other suitable
location may be utilized.
        Master control system (160) may include a processor capable of interpreting and
processing the information received from sensors (130, 140, 150, 180, 190) to determine when
the temperature is outside the relevant set range and also to identify temperature differentials
that may exist throughout a room. The processor may also include control logic for executing
certain control procedures in order to effectuate an appropriate control response based upon the
information (temperature, air speed, relative humidity, etc.) communicated from sensors (130,
140, 150, 180, 190) and the setting automatically chosen by master control system (160) or
manually chosen by the occupant. An appropriate control response may be carried out through
commands communicated from master control system (160) to fan(s) (110) and/or HVAC
system (170) based on the control procedures. By way of example only, fan(s) (110) may be
driven through a control procedure that varies fan speed as a function of sensed temperature and
humidity. Some such versions may provide a control procedure like the one taught in U.S. Pat.
Pub. No. 2010/0291858, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. In some
settings, varying fan speed as a function of sensed temperature and humidity may assist in
avoiding condensation on objects within the same room as fan(s) (110); and/or may provide
other effects.
        As a merely illustrative example, the basis of the control logic may be derived from the
thermal comfort equations in ASHRAE Standard 55-2010 and/or other relevant comfort related
theory or research.   The air speed and perceived temperature, as described below, may be
derived from the SET method of ASHRAE Standard 55-2010 and/or other relevant comfort
related theory or research.    The control logic may incorporate such factors as temperature,
                                               - 19 -

relative humidity, air speed, light levels, physiological condition of a user, and/or other
conditions which may exist; to determine how to most efficiently achieve acceptable levels of
occupant thermal comfort. Master control system (160) may learn the thermal preferences of
the occupants during an initial "learning period." Master control system (160) may then apply
the control logic to the thermal preferences of the occupant to reduce the energy consumption of
HVAC system (170) and fan(s) (110). In the case of the master control system (160) utilizing a
measured physiological condition of the user, such as MET, the derivation of relevant
parameters according to the SET method and/or other relevant comfort related theory or
research may utilize real-time physiological measurements of the user(s) in the space, rather
than default settings chosen during an initial set-up period. Accordingly, these derivations may
be performed more quickly and more accurately through a more accurate assessment of the
environment and system.
        Communication between master control system (160), HVAC system (170), fan(s)
(110), and various sensors (130, 140, 150, 180, 190) may be accomplished by means of wired or
wireless connections, RF transmission, infrared, Ethernet, or any other suitable and appropriate
mechanism. Master control system (160) may also be in communication with additional devices
(which may include computers, portable telephones or other similar devices) via the Local Area
Network, internet, cellular telephone networks or other suitable means, permitting manual
override control or other adjustments to be performed remotely.         Thermal comfort control
system (100) may be controlled by wall-mounted control panels and/or handheld remotes. In
some versions, thermal comfort control system (100) may be controlled by a smart light switch,
an application on a smart phone, other mobile computing device, or a ZigBee@ controller by
ZigBee Alliance of San Ramon, CA.           Such an application may include on/off, dimming,
brightening, and Vacation Mode among other options.
        A smart light switch could include sensors (130, 140, 150, 180).       Such a smart light
switch could be retrofitted within a space to provide information from sensors (130, 140, 150,
180) to master control system (160).     A smart light switch may also comprise master control
system (160) in addition to or in lieu of sensors (130, 140, 150, 180). Such a smart light switch
could be retrofitted within a space to operate as master control system (160) of exemplary
thermal comfort control system (100) by controlling any existing HVAC system (170), fan(s)
                                               -20-

(110), and/or any other climate and environmental control products.
        As a merely illustrative example, suppose that master control system (160) had
automatically chosen and/or the occupant had manually chosen "Occupied Heating" mode
(458), and set the temperature at 70'F. As shown in FIG. 4, if the high-elevation temperature is
warmer than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may be increased to "Winter
Maximum Speed" (512) to circulate the warmer air throughout the room. "Winter Maximum
Speed" is 30% of the maximum fan speed (512) in the present example, though it should be
understood that any other suitable speed may be used.          If however, the high-elevation
temperature is cooler than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may remain constant at
"Winter Minimum Speed" (514) to prevent air pockets from forming throughout the room. The
"Winter Minimum Speed" is 15% of the maximum fan speed (514) in the present example,
though it should be understood that any other suitable speed may be used. If at any time, low
elevation temperature sensor(s) (130) communicates to master control system (160) that the
temperature has fallen to 69.5'F (520), master control system (160) may first compare the high
elevation temperature    and low-elevation temperature (510);       and if the high-elevation
temperature is warmer than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may be increased to
"Winter Maximum Speed" (512) to circulate the warmer air throughout the room prior to
activating HVAC system (170). After allowing suitable time for the warm air to circulate the
room, the temperature may again be measured, or continuous measurements may be taken as
part of a continuous feedback loop, and an appropriate control response may then be taken by
mater control system (160).       If at any time, low-elevation temperature sensor(s) (130)
communicates to master control system (160) that the temperature has fallen to 69F (530),
master control system (160) will activate HVAC system (170) (532).         Of course, any other
suitable temperature values may be used in "Occupied Heating" mode (458).
        As another merely illustrative example, suppose that master control system (160) had
automatically chosen and/or the occupant had manually chosen "Unoccupied Heating" mode
(456), and set the temperature at 55'F. As shown in FIG. 6, if the high-elevation temperature is
warmer than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may be increased to "Winter
Maximum Speed" (612) to circulate the warmer air throughout the room. "Winter Maximum
Speed" is 30% of the maximum fan speed (612) in the present example, though it should be
                                              -21 -

understood that any other suitable speed may be used.            If however, the high-elevation
temperature is cooler than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may remain constant at
"Winter Minimum Speed" (614) to prevent air pockets from forming throughout the room. The
"Winter Minimum Speed" is 15% of the maximum fan speed (614) in the present example,
though it should be understood that any other suitable speed may be used. If at any time, low
elevation temperature sensor(s) (130) communicates to master control system (160) that the
temperature has fallen to 54.5'F (620), master control system (160) may first compare the high
elevation temperature and the low-elevation temperature (610); and if the high-elevation
temperature is warmer than the low-elevation temperature, the fan speed may be increased to
"Winter Maximum Speed" (612) to circulate the warmer air throughout the room prior to
activating HVAC system (170).
        After allowing suitable time for the warm air to circulate the room, the temperature may
again be measured, or continuous measurements may be taken as part of a continuous feedback
loop, and an appropriate control response may then be taken by mater control system (160). If
at any time, low-elevation temperature sensor(s) (130) communicates to master control system
(160) that the temperature has fallen to 54F (630), master control system (160) will activate
HVAC system (170) (632).       Of course, any other suitable temperature values may be used in
"Unoccupied Heating" mode (456).
        As yet another merely illustrative example, suppose that master control system (160) had
automatically chosen and/or the occupant had manually chosen "Occupied Cooling" mode
(454), and set the temperature at 80F and master control system (160) determined the optimum
relative humidity to be 55%.         As shown in FIG. 7, if low-elevation sensor(s) (130)
communicates to master control system (160) that the low-elevation temperature has raised to a
point within 5F of set temperature (710), master control system may activate fan(s) (110).
Master control system (160) may increase the speed of fan(s) (110) as the low-elevation
temperature approaches set temperature (712, 714, 716, 718, 720, 722) until the fan speed
reaches 100% of the maximum fan speed (722), as shown in FIG. 6. The air movement created
by fan(s) (110) creates a lower perceived temperature by increasing the rate of heat transfer
from the body.
        Master control system (160) may adjust the set temperature to a higher actual set
                                              -22 -

temperature that accounts for the perceived cooling effect (724), while maintaining a perceived
temperature at the original set temperature, 80'F. The control logic utilized by master control
system (160) to determine the perceived temperature may be derived from the SET method of
the ASHRAE Standard 55-2010 and/or other relevant comfort related theory or research. The
perceived temperature may be based upon the temperature, relative air humidity, and/or air
speed, among other conditions which may exist.         If the perceived temperature rises above
original set temperature (730), then master control system (160) may activate HVAC system
(170) (732). If the relative humidity level rises above the optimum relative humidity (740), then
master control system (160) may also activate HVAC system (170) (742) (i.e. regardless of what
the actual or perceived temperature may be). Of course, any other suitable temperature and/or
relative humidity level values and/or fan speeds may be used in "Occupied Cooling" mode
(454).
        In a similar illustrative example as shown in FIG. 8, the master control system (16) may
have automatically chosen and/or the occupant may have manually chosen "Occupied Cooling"
mode (454), and set the temperature at 80OF and master control system (160) may have
determined the optimum relative humidity to be 55%. In this embodiment, a physiological
sensor (190) may communicate to the master control system (160) a value of a physiological
condition of a user, such as MET. The physiological sensor (190) may alternately measure one
or more of heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, body temperature, respiration, weight, perspiration,
blood oxygen level, galvanic skin response, or an accelerometer, or any combination of the
foregoing. The sensor may be wearable, and may be positioned on a wristband, armband, belt,
watch, glasses, clothing, clothing accessory (e.g., a hat, earring, necklace), or any combination
thereof. Alternatively, the sensor may be embedded or ingested.
        When the physiological sensor (190) communicates to the master control system (160)
that the user's condition has exceeded a minimum threshold, such as MET > 1.2 (750), the
master controller system may activate fan(s) (110). Master control system (160) may increase
the speed of fan(s) (110) as the user's measured MET increases (752, 754, 756, 758, 760, 762)
until the fan speed reaches 100) of the maximum fan speed (762), as shown in FIG. 9. The air
movement created by fan(s) (110) creates a lower perceived temperature by increasing the rate
of heat transfer from the body.
                                                -23 -

        Master control system (160) may adjust the set temperature to a higher actual set
temperature that accounts for the perceived cooling effect (724), while maintaining a perceived
temperature at the original set temperature, 80'F. The control logic utilized by master control
system (160) to determine the perceived temperature may be derived from the SET method of
the ASHRAE Standard 55-2010 and/or other relevant comfort related theory or research. The
perceived temperature may be based upon the temperature, relative air humidity, and/or air
speed, as well as the user's physiological condition, among other conditions which may exist. If
the perceived temperature rises above original set temperature (730), then master control system
(160) may activate HVAC system (170) (732).          If the relative humidity level rises above the
optimum relative humidity (740), then master control system (160) may also activate HVAC
system (170) (742) (i.e. regardless of what the actual or perceived temperature may be). The
use of data from a physiological sensor (190) may be utilized by the master control system (160)
alone or in combination with data from any other sensor (130, 140, 150, 180) in adjusting fan
speed to account for a change in perceived temperature.
        As yet another merely illustrative example, suppose that master control system (160) had
automatically chosen and/or the occupant had manually chosen the "Unoccupied Cooling" mode
(452), and set the temperature at 90'F. As shown in FIG. 10, fan (110) may remain off even if
HVAC system (170) has been activated by master control system (160), because the cooling
effect of the air is not useful in an unoccupied room. If the temperature rises above the original
set temperature (810), then master control system (160) may activate HVAC system (170)
(812). Of course, any other suitable temperature and/or relative humidity level values may be
used in "Unoccupied Cooling" mode (452).
        Thermal comfort control system (100) could be used in combination with a radiant
heating system (e.g. radiant heat flooring, steam pipe radiator systems, etc.) in addition to or in
lieu of being used with HVAC system (170).             Thermal comfort control system (100) may
operate as discussed above to determine and change or maintain the temperature at the level of
occupancy within a room. Fans (110) may be utilized to evenly distribute heat from the radiant
heat source throughout the entire space.      This may improve energy efficiency and decrease
warm-up and/or cool-down time within the space.
        Thermal comfort control system (100) may be programmed to learn preferences of the
                                                - 24 -

occupant over a period of time. As an example of such a capability, master control system (160)
may determine, as a result of the occupant's preferences over time, that the occupant prefers a
certain relative humidity level in combination with a particular fan speed and/or temperature
setting, or vice versa.  Such preferences may be established for particular periods of time, for
instance during particular times of the year such that master control system (160) may establish
different occupancy preferences for different times during the year; or such preferences may be
established for particular external conditions which may exist as discussed above such that
master control system (160) may establish different occupancy preferences for different external
conditions.
        A further benefit of exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) is that it may
provide zone-based thermal control whereas traditionally an HVAC system (170) is controlled
across a multitude of rooms or zones. Sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may be placed in multiple
rooms or zones and the occupant may establish an average temperature set range to be used
throughout all the rooms or zones, or the occupant may establish individual temperature set
ranges particular to each room or zone.
        Master control system (160) may determine appropriate control responses based upon
the average or particular temperature set range and the thermal and/or occupancy conditions
which may exist in each individual room or zone in which sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) are
located. Master control system (160) may activate or shutdown particular fans (110) and/or may
activate or shutdown HVAC system (170) in a particular zone or room depending upon the
sensed thermal and/or occupancy conditions. Thus, while the average temperature across a zone
may not exceed the set range to activate HVAC system (170), fans (110) in occupied rooms may
be activated by master control system (160) to increase comfort in those rooms while fans (110)
in unoccupied rooms remain idle to reduce power consumption. Automated dampers may also
be included within HVAC system (170) to rebalance HVAC system (170) by automatically
diverting air to occupied zones and away from unoccupied zones. Such dampers would allow
master control system (160) to divert air that would otherwise be wasted on unoccupied zones to
those zones which are occupied. The automated dampers may be driven by motors, solenoids,
etc. that are in communication with master control system (160). Master control system (160)
may be capable of maintaining a lower temperature (in winter) or higher temperature (in
                                               -25-

summer) in those rooms that are unoccupied, for instance by varying the temperature limit by
20 F-30 F until a room becomes occupied. As described in more detail below, master control
system (160) may be integrated with other thermal control products in each room or zone to
facilitate more efficient climate control.
         A more specific iteration of zone-based control involves the regulation of the operation
of multiple fans co-located within a particular space (S) in a building (G) based on a sensed
condition relating to the immediate subspace in which the fan is positioned. Thus, for example,
and with reference to FIG. 11, a single space such as a room in a residence, a commercial
location (such as a restaurant, retail space), or an industrial location (e.g., a warehouse,
manufacturing facility, or the like), may be divided into a plurality of zones (four shown as (Z1),
(Z2), (Z3), and (Z4)), each having an associated overhead circulating fan (1 10a, 1 Ob, 1 Oc,
1 Od) that may be associated with a separate control (either individually or though a master
controller (160)). Two or more of the zones (Z1), (Z2), (Z3), and (Z4) may each be within view
of each other by a person in any one of them, and may be bounded by walls (W) (such as
external walls), a ceiling (not shown), and a floor (F).     The fans may, thus, for example, be
mounted to the same ceiling or wall in the space (S).
         In the illustrated embodiment, it can be appreciated that at least one wall (W) is common
to at least two of the zones (Z1), (Z2), (Z3), and (Z4), but this is not considered to limit the
disclosure. Furthermore, partitions may be provided between the zones (Z1), (Z2), (Z3), and
(Z4), but for purposes of this aspect of the disclosure, a zone-based control for a single sis not
considered to comprise two spaces separated by walls, such as different rooms in a home,
apartments in a building, or like arrangements. In one particular embodiment, both the fans and
the corresponding zones are located in a single room, but in other embodiments the zones may
be in different rooms (such as, for example, the situation where the fans are controlled to operate
or not based on detected occupancy within a particular room).
         The fans (1 Oa-1 Od) may be associated with one or more sensors, such as occupancy
sensors, and thus may be activated and deactivated based on occupancy in the zone. In a more
particular example, the fans (1 Oa-1 Od) are each associated with sensors for sensing one or
more environmental conditions, such as ambient temperature (e.g., a thermostat).        The sensors
may be directly connected to the fan itself, or may be mounted within the particular zone in
                                                -26-

which the fan is located (note sensor (R) apart from fan in zone (Z1) of FIG. 11).
         Thus, when one of the fans, such as fan (1 10a), is associated with an active heat load
indicated by reference character (H) (which may be a heating element, stove, oven, coffee
maker, or other type of machine (e.g., a welder)), its actuation and/or speed may be regulated by
a master control system (160) (which may be in wired or wireless communication) in order help
comfort any person (P) or persons in the particular zones, or otherwise help to improve the
sensed temperature in the zone (such as through destratification). In another zone, such as close
to an entrance or exit of the space (S) where outside or unconditioned air may enter, an
associated fan (1 10b) may be independently regulated based on the output of an associated
sensor, such as one for detecting local temperature in the zone, or instead based on occupancy
(including possibly someone passing through the entrance (E)) or even ambient light (such as
that projecting through the entrance or exit (E) aperture or another port or window in the zone).
The fans (1 Oc, 1 Od) in other zones (Z3), (Z4) may also be regulated based on sensed
conditions within the particular zones, including possibly based on the temperature difference
created by presence of a cooling source, such as a register, open cooler (electric or ice bath), or
the like.
         As should be appreciated, this zone-based control allows for a microclimate to be
maintained in each zone in which one or more fans is located based on locally sensed conditions
associated with the particular zone.     Accordingly, different fans in different zones may be
independently regulated, including possibly using a common master control, to help regulate the
conditions within the zone. By way of master controller (160), this feature may also be coupled
with the HVAC system (170) to provide for the introduction of conditioned air (hot or cold) to
the particular zones using dampers or the like, and may also be coupled with the other features
described herein (such as, for example, automated blinds), in order to further optimize these
sensed temperature in the zone, and thus assure comfort based on the users.
         The master control (160) may include a module, such as a display, for allowing for the
control to be undertaken as well.      The control (160) may allow for the user to override the
independent control of the fans in the space, or require the fans to operate in a certain sequence
over time based on sensed condition. The control (160) may also allow for the sensed condition
that triggers adjustments in the fan regulation to be controlled, including possibly by causing the
                                                -27-

fan(s) in the zone(s) to turn on when a certain condition is sensed, turn off when a certain
condition is sensed (time, temperature, light, etc.), or otherwise regulate the speed based on
sensed conditions.
         The comfort control by zones may also be used in connection with individual control,
whereby a person in the zone may control the conditions therein, such as by controlling one or
more fans in the particular zone. For instance, a person (P) may have a device (D), such as a
smart phone, adapted to communicate with either the fan (110) in a particular zone, or with the
master controller (160) (but potentially limited to control of a particular fan or fans in the
associated zone). Other users in different zones would be similarly able to control the particular
zone in which they are positioned, thus ensuring comfort.
         While this approach is envisioned primarily in connection with residential or industrial
space where a resident, visitor, or worker, is frequently present in the same part of the zone and
may thus desired to regulate the temperature, it may also be achieved in commercial spaces,
such as for example patrons in a restaurant or coffee shop. To prevent unwanted interference,
the person may need to be qualified to implement the control, such as by being provided a code
for implementing the control upon registering for such access (possibly as part of a loyalty
program). The fan or fans in the zone may then also be used to detect the presence of the person
based on the implementation of control (whether code based or otherwise), which can then be
used by the establishment to assess the frequency of visits, or perhaps even offer rewards or the
like to the customer based on their presence and loyalty.
         Another benefit of the exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) is that it may
provide scheduled thermal control, whereas traditionally an HVAC system (170) ran around the
clock. Master control system (160) may be programmed to operate fans (110) and/or HVAC
system (170) only during particular times.       An example of such a time may be when the
occupant is typically at work.      Master control system (160) may also be programmed to
determine appropriate control responses based upon different settings or temperature set ranges
during particular times. An example of such a time may be when the occupant is sleeping;
thermal control system (160) may be programmed to a lower temperature set range (during
winter) or a higher temperature set range (during summer) during this time, and then may begin
to raise (during winter) or lower (during summer) the temperature at a time just before the
                                                -28-

occupant typically awakens.
        Master control system (160) may also be programmed to operate fans (110) and/or
HVAC system (170) only during particular times based on a "room name" that is programmed
into master control system (160) and associated with a particular room and a typical occupancy
of such a room. As an example of such an operation, a room may be programmed into master
control system (160) as "bedroom" and master control system (160) may automatically
determine that fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) need only be operated during typical
occupancy periods of a bedroom, for instance, at night when the occupants are typically
sleeping. Master control system (160) may also be capable of learning the occupancy habits
within particular spaces.   For instance, master control system (160) may determine that the
occupant typically only uses a particular space during a particular period of time, and therefore
only operate fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) during that particular time to save energy.
Finally, master control system (160) may be programmed to only operate fans (110) or HVAC
system (170) within occupied zones regardless of the arbitrary location of sensors (130, 140),
which may or may not be the same location as the occupied zone.
        Thermal comfort control system (100) may also be used to improve the perceived indoor
environmental quality (IEQ) by providing efficient air movement during a period of non
occupancy or for a period of time prior to occupancy. Master control system (160) may operate
fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) at a minimal level during the programmed or learned
period of non-occupancy.     For instance, master control system (160) may be programmed to
provide approximately 0.3 m/s (or any other suitable rate) of air movement during the
programmed or learned period of non-occupancy. Of course, a 0.3 m/s rate of air movement is
just one merely illustrative example, and it should be understood that any other suitable rate of
air movement may be provided.        There is no intent that system (100) be limited to an air
movement rate of 0.3 m/s. Also, master control system (160) may be programmed to begin
operation of fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) for a programmed period of time prior to the
programmed or learned period of occupancy begins. For instance, master control system (160)
may begin operating fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) fifteen minutes before the
programmed or learned occupancy period begins (e.g. fifteen minutes before master control
system (160) expects the space to be occupied, based on typical occupancy periods established
                                              -29-

for that space). Also, master control system (160) may be programmed to activate a device for
cleaning air within a space, such as through an air purifier (e.g., a filtering apparatus, a UV light
generator, etc).
        Thermal comfort control system (100) may also be utilized to assist in improving the
efficiency of artificial lighting within a particular space. Light sensors may be incorporated on
or within fans (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) to measure a light level within a
particular space.    Master control system (160) may be integrated with the artificial lighting
within a particular space, and when the light level of a particular space exceeds a predetermined
or programmed level, the artificial lighting may be dimmed until the light level reaches the
predetermined or programmed level. As discussed below, master control system (160) may be
integrated with automated blinds within a particular space, and when the light level of a
particular space falls below the predetermined or programmed level, master control system
(160) may open the automated blinds to utilize natural lighting, and if necessary, master control
system (160) may brighten the artificial lighting until the light level reaches the predetermined
or programmed level.       Automated blinds could also be automatically opened to assist with
heating in winter during the day; or be automatically closed to reduce the cooling load in the
summer during the day. Other suitable ways in which automated blinds may be integrated with
system (100) will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings herein.
        Thermal control system (100) may also be programmed for less routine events, such as
vacation ("Vacation Mode"), when, as described above, thermal control system (100) may
shutdown fans (110) and/or HVAC system (170) or determine appropriate control responses
based upon different settings or temperature set ranges. Such a Vacation Mode or other less
routine operations may be manually triggered by the occupant and/or automatically triggered by
thermal control system (100) after a lack of occupancy is sensed for an established threshold
period. During Vacation Mode, master control system (160) may increase energy efficiency by
not operating HVAC system (170) and/or fan(s) (110), or by operating HVAC system (170)
and/or fan(s) (110) at more efficient energy levels. As discussed below, such operations may be
tied into other any number of climate control products. In addition, system (100) may reset or
otherwise reduce power consumption by a water heater and/or other equipment capable of such
control during a Vacation Mode.
                                                 - 30 -

        A further added benefit of thermal comfort control system (100) is that as more utilities
companies begin to utilize "peak demand pricing structures" - where the utility will charge
various electric rates throughout the day, based on electric grid system demand - thermal
comfort control system (100) will be able to receive and react to changes in the utility pricing,
based on user defined schedules thereby saving the user money. Master control system (160)
may also be programmed to meter or monitor the energy consumption of each fan (110) and
HVAC system (170).        Master control system (160) may then warn the occupant if HVAC
system (170) and/or any particular fan (110) begins to use an atypical amount of energy. In
addition or in the alternative, system (100) may generate monthly reports on operating hours and
energy use per day, per week, per month, and/or on any other suitable basis. Various other
suitable ways in which system (100) may be used to provide energy consumption monitoring
and/or metering will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings
herein.
        Thermal comfort control system (100) may be utilized as or integrated with a security
system. Occupancy sensors (150), placed on fan (110) as shown in FIG. 12, or in other places
within a space as shown in FIGS. 1 or 11, may be utilized to detect the presence of a person(s)
within a certain range of fan(s) (110), and then trigger a warning signal indicating occupancy.
(It should be understood that occupancy sensor (150) could be located anywhere on fan (110),
and the representation in FIG. 12 is merely a schematic.) Such a warning may be sent by master
control system (160) to a computer and/or smart phone, such as that of the owner of the location
where the fan (110) is present. Occupancy sensors (150) may provide the owner with detailed
information of a possible intruder's movements by providing the owner with occupancy
information in each separate space. Existing occupancy sensors (150) of an existing security
system could be utilized by master control system (160) and integrated into thermal comfort
control system (100) as discussed above. In addition or in the alternative, occupancy sensors
(150) of thermal comfort control system (100) may be utilized by a security system.           As
discussed below, audio components and/or speakers may be integrated with fans (110) and/or
sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) to provide sound and recording capabilities within the space as
well. Such capabilities may be utilized during vacation mode only, when the user selects a
Security Mode, or all the time. Cameras (910) capable of transferring live video streams via
                                               -31 -

WI-FI may be incorporated on or within fans (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) as
shown in FIG. 13.        Such cameras (910) would provide the owner with real time video
surveillance of each space.      Cameras (910) may also be tied into the security system to be
utilized as occupancy sensors and/or may be triggered for transmission or recordation of video
when the security system detects an occupant. (It should be understood that camera (910) could
be located anywhere on fan (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180), and the representation in
FIG. 13 is merely a schematic.)
         Thermal comfort control system (100) may be integrated with a NESTTM thermostat
system by Nest Labs, Inc. of Palo Alto, CA.           Such integration may allow for the NESTTM
thermostat system to receive information from and/or control the components of thermal
comfort control system (100); including HVAC system (170), fan(s) (110) and/or sensors (130,
140, 150, 180) among others. Fan(s) (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may also serve
as a gateway into other devices and bring all of those points back to the NESTTM thermostat
system. As merely an example of other devices, smart plugs for advanced energy monitoring
may be coupled with the NESTTM thermostat system via fans (110) and/or sensors (130, 140,
150, 180).     Integration may also allow the programmed or learned periods of occupancy
discussed above to be included in the NESTTM thermostat system. Master control system (160)
may communicate energy usage to the NESTTM thermostat system. Master control system (160)
may also be programmed to operate as a NESTTM thermostat controller in addition to or in lieu
of a NESTTM thermostat controller.         Fan (110) energy usage, as discussed above, may be
communicated to the NESTTM thermostat system. Finally, the operating hours of fan(s) (110),
as determined by the programmed or learned period of occupancy as discussed above, may be
included in the data logging of the NESTTM thermostat system.             As yet another merely
illustrative example, thermal comfort control system (100) may be integrated with an IRISTM
system by Lowe's Companies, Inc. of Mooresville, North Carolina.           Other suitable systems
and/or components that may be combined with system (100) will be apparent to those of
ordinary skill in the art in view of the teachings herein.
         The components of exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) (e.g. fans (110)
and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may also be utilized to perform less traditional functions.
For example, fans (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180) may serve as an access point or
                                                 - 32 -

signal booster (912) for Wi-Fi networks within the space as shown in FIG. 14. (It should be
understood that access point or signal booster (912) could be located anywhere on fan (110)
and/or sensors (130, 140, 150, 180), and the representation in FIG. 14 is merely a schematic.)
Such a use may be particularly beneficial in spaces with weak or no Wi-Fi signal. As another
example, audio feature(s) (914) may be integrated with fans (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150,
180) to provide sound and recording capabilities as shown in FIG. 15. (It should be understood
that audio features (914) could be located anywhere on fan (110) and/or sensors (130, 140, 150,
180), and the representation in FIG. 15 is merely a schematic.)          Such audio features may
include: speakers, microphones, amplifiers, and/or transceivers among others. Audio features
(914) may be in communication with an audio program (e.g. iTunesTM by Apple, Inc. of
Cupertino, CA, etc.) to play music, etc.     Audio features (914) may also be in communication
with a security system, to emit audio alarms and/or record audio in response to detection of an
intruder, etc.
        As shown in FIG. 3, exemplary thermal comfort control system (100) described above
may be combined with any number of climate and environmental control products, and the
capabilities and operations discussed above may be configured to include any number of climate
and environmental control products.       An example of such an additional product would be
automated blinds (920) that may be opened or closed depending upon the light levels being
introduced into the space at any particular moment. Another example of such a product would
be an air purifier (922) that may be utilized to improve the air quality within a room based upon
air quality measurements taken by sensors (130, 140) described above. Yet another example of
such a product would be an air humidifier or dehumidifier (924) to control the relative humidity
within a room based upon the relative humidity measurements taken by sensors (130,140). Yet
another example of such a product would be a water heater (926). Yet another example of such
a product would be a scent generator (928) which may include an air freshener to distribute
aromatic scents throughout all the spaces or only particular spaces. Master control system (160)
may also be integrated with other network systems that will allow for additional features to be
controlled such as lighting and music among others.
        Having shown and described various embodiments of the present invention, further
adaptations of the methods and systems described herein may be accomplished by appropriate
                                                - 33 -

modifications by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present
invention.  Several of such potential modifications have been mentioned, and others will be
apparent to those skilled in the art.   For instance, the examples, embodiments, geometrics,
materials, dimensions, ratios, steps, and the like discussed above are illustrative and are not
required. Accordingly, the scope of the present invention should be considered in terms of
claims that may be presented, and is understood not to be limited to the details of structure and
operation shown and described in the specification and drawings.
                                              - 34 -

      WO 2014/071046                                                             PCT/US2013/067828
                                           AMENDED CLAIMS
             received by the International Bureau on 24 April 2014 (24.04.2014)
 In the Claims
          1.     A system for providing thermal comfort in a space comprising a plurality of
 interconnected zones, comprising:
                 at least one fan positioned in each zone of the space;
                 a sensor for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones; and
                 a controller adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of
 another fan based on the sensed condition in the at least one zone including the controlled fan.
         2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the fan comprises an overhead fan mounted to a
 ceiling in a room including the space comprising the plurality of interconnected zones.
         3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a sensor selected from the
 group consisting of a temperature sensor, an occupancy sensor, a light sensor, a humidity sensor, a
physiological sensor, or any combination thereof.
         4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises a master controller for
controlling each fan in the space.
         5.      The system of claim 1, further including an individual controller for controlling at
least one of the fans.
         6.      The system of claim 5, wherein the controller comprises a handheld device controlled
by a person in the space.
         7.      The system of claim 1, further including an HVAC system for conditioning the space,
said HVAC system controlled by the controller.
         8.      The system of claim 1, further including a plurality of sensors, each for sensing a
condition in at least one of the zones.
         9.      The system of claim 1, wherein each sensor is connected to at least one fan in the zone.
         10.     The system of claim 1, wherein each sensor is fixedly mounted within the zone other
than to the fan.
         11.     The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fans further includes a light, and
wherein the controller is adapted to control the light.
         12.     The system of claim 1, further including an automated blind, and wherein the
                                                     35
                                   AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                             PCT/US2013/067828
 controller is adapted for controlling the automated blind.
          13.     The system of claim 1, wherein at least one fan includes an auxiliary component
 selected from the group consisting of a wireless signal booster, a camera, a speaker, a sound
 generator, an air purifier, a scent generator, or any combination thereof
          14.     The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is adapted for detecting the presence of a
particular individual.
          15.    The system of claim 1, further including a device carried by an individual and
adapted for being detected by the sensor.
         16.     The system of claim 1, wherein a user is allowed to control the fan in the at least one
zone by transmitting a code to the controller.
         17.     The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to determine a control
response based upon an average or a particular temperature set range and a thermal and/or
occupancy condition in each individual zone.
         18.     The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to activate or shutdown a fan
in any zone depending upon a sensed thermal and/or occupancy condition.
         19.     The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted for controlling an HVAC
system for supplying air to the space, and further including one or more automated dampers for
automatically diverting air to occupied zones and away from unoccupied zones.
         20.     A system for providing thermal comfort for a person within a room comprising a
plurality of interconnected zones, comprising:
                 at least one fan positioned in each zone of the room;
                 a sensor for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones; and
                 a controller adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of
another fan based on the sensed condition in the at least one zone including the controlled fan.
        21.      The system of claim 20, further including a heat load in the at least one zone.
        22.      The system of claim 21, further including a cooling source in the at least one zone.
        23.      The system of any of claims 20-22, wherein the room includes a ceiling, and each fan
comprises an overhead fan mounted to the ceiling.
                                                     36
                                    AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                               PCT/US2013/067828
          24.      The system of any of claims 20-22, wherein the controller is adapted for controlling a
 first fan in a first zone and a second fan in a second zone based upon an occupancy condition of the
 respective zone.
          25. The system of any of claims 20-22, wherein the controller is adapted for controlling a first
fan in a first zone and a second fan in a second zone based upon a temperature of the respective zone.
          26.      In a room comprising a plurality of interconnected zones with at least one fan
positioned in each zone of the room, the improvement comprising:
                  a sensor for sensing a condition in at least one of the zones; and
                  a controller adapted for controlling the fan in the at least one zone independent of
another fan based on the sensed condition in the at least one zone including the controlled fan.
          27.     The improvement of claim 26, wherein the at least one zone includes a heat load.
          28.     The improvement of claim 26, wherein the at least one zone includes a cooling source.
          29.     The improvement of claim 26, wherein the room includes at least four walls
separating the room from an outdoor environment, and at least one of the zones includes a portal
through at least one of the walls.
          30.     The improvement of claim 26, wherein the room includes a ceiling, and each fan
comprises an overhead fan mounted to the ceiling in the room.
          31.     A method of creating a microclimate in a plurality of zones within a space, each zone
including an independently controlled fan, comprising:
                  sensing a first condition in a first zone including a first fan;
                  controlling the first fan based on the first condition;
                  sensing a second condition in a second zone including a second fan; and
                  controlling the second fan based on the sensed condition.
         32.      The method of claim 31, wherein the sensing steps are performed in a single room
serving as the space.
         33.      The method of claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the step of sensing the first condition
comprises sensing a temperature in the first zone.
         34.      The method of any of claims 31-33, wherein the step of sensing the first condition
comprises sensing occupancy in the first zone.
                                                       37
                                     AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

     WO 2014/071046                                                            PCT/US2013/067828
        35.      The method of any of claims 31-34, wherein the step of sensing the second condition
 comprises sensing temperature, occupancy, or both.
        36.      The method of any of claims 31-35, wherein the sensing step comprises sensing
 humidity in the zone.
        37.     A system for controlling the thermal comfort of a person, comprising:
                a sensor for sensing a physiological condition of the person; and
                a fan adapted for being controlled based on the sensed physiological condition;
                wherein the sensor is selected from the group consisting of a wristband, armband,
belt, watch, glasses, clothing accessory, an object adapted for being ingested by or embedded in the
person, and any combination thereof.
        38.     The system of claim 37, wherein the fan comprises an overhead fan.
        39.     The system of claim 37, wherein the physiological condition is selected from the
group consisting of metabolic equivalent of task (MET), heart rate, pulse, blood pressure, body
temperature, respiration, weight, perspiration, blood oxygen level, galvanic skin response, and
combinations thereof.
        40.     The system of claim 37, wherein the sensor is adapted for transmitting data about the
physiological condition directly to a controller or via an intermediate device.
        41.     The system of claim 37, wherein the controller is adapted to determine a comfort
control setting based a condition selected from the group consisting of external temperature, room
occupancy, and/or time of day.
        42.     The system of claim 37, wherein the controller includes control settings selected from the
group consisting of occupied heating, unoccupied heating, occupied cooling, and unoccupied cooling.
        43.     The system of claim 37, wherein each control setting comprises a programmable
temperature set range and/or an option to operate the fan as a part of a sequence of operations of an
HVAC system in response to the temperature being outside the set range.
       44,      A system for controlling the thermal comfort of a person, comprising:
                a sensor for sensing a light level;
                a fan having a fan speed; and
                a controller for regulating the fan speed based on the sensed light level.
                                                 38
                                   AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                             PCT/US2013/067828
        45.      The system of claim 44, wherein the sensor is connected to the fan.
        46.      The system of claim 44, wherein the sensor is connected to a light switch.
        47.      A system for controlling the thermal comfort of a person, comprising:
                 a sensor for sensing a light level;
                a fan for circulating air; and
                a controller for actuating the fan from a stationary condition based on the sensed light
 level.
        48.     A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                a fan for circulating air within the space;
                a ventilator for supplying air to the space; and
                a controller adapted for controlling the fan for circulating air within the space and the
ventilator for supplying air to the space.
        49,     The apparatus of claim 48, wherein the space comprises a plurality of zones, and
further including one or more automated dampers controlled by the controller for automatically
diverting air from the ventilator to one zone and away from another zone.
        50.     The system of claim 48, wherein each zone includes a fan and an occupancy sensor,
and the dampers are controlled to automatically divert air from the ventilator to an occupied zone
and away from an unoccupied zone.
        51.     A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                a fan for circulating air within the space; and
                a controller adapted for actuating the fan when the space is unoccupied.
        52.     The system of claim 51, further including an occupancy sensor for sensing the
presence of a person in the space.
        53.     The system of claim 51, wherein the controller controls the actuation of the fan based
on a predicted time of occupancy.
        54.     A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                a fan located in the space for circulating air within the space; and
                a controller adapted for operating the fan based on a predicted occupancy of the
space.
                                                        39
                                    AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

     WO 2014/071046                                                              PCT/US2013/067828
         55.     The system of claim 54, wherein the controller is adapted for actuating the fan at a
 time prior to the predicted occupancy.
         56.     The system of claim 54, wherein the controller is adapted to operate the fan at a
 minimal level from the time prior to the predicted occupancy until at least occupancy being detected
 by an occupancy sensor.
         57.     The system of claim 54, wherein the controller is adapted to activate a device for
cleaning air within the space prior to the predicted occupancy.
         58.     A system for controlling the climate in multiple zones, comprising:
                 a first fan for circulating air in a first zone;
                 a first occupancy sensor for sensing an occupancy condition of the first zone;
                 a second fan for circulating air in a second zone;
                 a second occupancy sensor for sensing occupancy in the second zone; and
                 a controller for controlling the first fan and the second fan based on the sensed
occupancy of the first and second zones.
         59.     The system of claim 58, wherein the controller is adapted to control the first fan to
operate when the first zone is occupied, and to control the second fan not to operate when the second
zone is unoccupied.
        60.      The system of claim 58, wherein the controller is adapted to control the first and
second fans to operate based on a time of day.
        61.      A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                 a fan for circulating air within the space;
                 a ventilator for supplying air to the space; and
                 a controller for controlling the ventilator, said controller adapted for actuating the fan
prior to controlling the ventilator supplying air to the space.
        62.      The system of claim 61, wherein the ventilator comprises an HVAC system
connected to a sensor, the fan comprises an overhead fan positioned in the space, and the controller
is adapted for communicating with the sensor to operate the fan in advance of the actuation of the
HVAC system.
        63.      A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                                                         40
                                     AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                               PCT/US2013/067828
                  a fan for circulating air within the space;
                  a conditioner for conditioning air in the space; and
                  a controller for controlling the conditioner, the controller further adapted for
 actuating the fan prior to the conditioner conditioning the air.
          64.     The system of claim 63, wherein the conditioner comprises a heater.
          65.     A system for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                  a fan located in the space for circulating air within the space; and
                  a controller adapted for monitoring the energy consumption of the fan.
          66.     The system of claim 65, wherein the controller is adapted for regulating the operation
of fan based on an energy price at a given time.
          67.     The system of claim 65, wherein the controller is adapted for providing a warning if
an amount of energy consumption is exceeded.
          68.     A system for providing security information to a device of a user relating to a space
in which the climate is controlled, comprising:
                  a fan for circulating air within the space; and
                  a security device associated with the fan and adapted for generating an indication of
an event on the user's device relating to the security of the space.
          69.     The system of claim 68, wherein the security device comprises an occupancy sensor.
          70.     The system of claim 68, wherein the security device comprises a camera, and the
indication comprises one or more video images of the space obtained from the camera for display on
the user's device.
          71.     A method for controlling the thermal comfort of a person, comprising:
                  sensing a light level; and
                 regulating the speed of a fan based on the sensed light level.
          72.    The method of claim 71, wherein the regulating step comprises increasing the speed from
a first speed to a second speed when the light level increases from a first level to a second level.
         73.     The method of claim 71, wherein the regulating step comprises decreasing the speed
from a first speed to a second speed when the light level decreases from a first level to a second level.
                                                      41
                                     AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                            PCT/US2013/067828
         74.      A method for controlling the thermal comfort of a person, comprising:
                  sensing a light level; and
                  actuating a fan based on the sensed light level.
         75.      A method for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                  circulating air within the space using a fan;
                 conditioning the air in the space; and
                 controlling both the circulation and conditioning of the air using a single controller.
         76.     The method of claim 75, wherein the controlling step comprises controlling one of
the fan or a ventilator for supplying conditioned air to the space based on a sensed condition in the
space.
         77.     The method of claim 75, wherein the controlling step comprises controlling one of
the fan or a heater for heating air in the space based on a sensed condition in the space.
         78.     The method of claim 75, wherein the controlling step comprises controlling the fan to
operate prior to the ventilator based on a sensed condition in the space.
         79.    The method of claim 75, further including the step of using the controller to open one
or more dampers to control the supply of air to the space.
         80.    The method of claim 75, further including an occupancy sensor, and wherein the
method comprises diverting air from an occupied zone to an unoccupied zone of the space.
         81.    A method for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                determining whether a space is occupied; and
                following a determination that the space is unoccupied, actuating a fan for circulating
air in the space.
         82.    The method of claim 81, further including the step of actuating the fan based on a
predicted time of occupancy.
         83.    A method or controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                actuating a fan for circulating air in the space based on a predicted time of occupancy
of the space by a person.
                                                     42
                                     AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

      WO 2014/071046                                                             PCT/US2013/067828
          84.      The method of claim 83, further including the step of actuating the fan at a
 predetermined time prior to the predicted occupancy.
          85.     The method of claim 83, further including the step of operating the fan at a first speed
 from the time prior to the predicted occupancy until at least occupancy being detected, and then
 operating the fan at a second, higher speed.
          86.     The method of any of claims 84-85, further including the step of cleaning a portion of
 the air prior to the predicted occupancy.
          87.     A method for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                  providing a fan for circulating air within the space;
                  providing a ventilator for supplying air to the space; and
                  providing a controller adapted for actuating the fan prior to actuating the ventilator
 for supplying air to the space.
          88.     A method for controlling the climate in a space, comprising:
                  providing a fan located in the space for circulating air within the space;
                  monitoring the energy consumption of the fan; and
                  regulating the fan based on the monitored energy consumption.
         89.      The method of claim 88, wherein the regulating step comprises              regulating the
 operation of fan based on an energy price at a given time.
         90.      The method of claim 88, further including the step of providing a warning when a
pre-determined amount of energy consumption is exceeded.
         91.      A method for providing security information to a device of a user relating to a space
in which the climate is controlled, comprising:
                  providing a fan for circulating air within the space;
                  providing a security device associated with the fan; and
                  generating an indication on the user's device relating to the security device.
         92.      The method of claim 91, wherein the security device comprises one of an occupancy
sensor or a camera, and further including the step of transmitting a signal from the security device to
the user's device to provide the indication.
                                                      43
                                    AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

     WO 2014/071046                                                          PCT/US2013/067828
         93.     An apparatus for use in connection with a comfort control system, comprising:
     a light switch including a sensor for controlling the comfort control system, the sensor selected
from the group consisting of a temperature sensor, an occupancy sensor, a humidity sensor, and
combinations thereof.
         94.     The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the switch is adapted to communicate with the
comfort control system.
         95.     The apparatus     of claim    93,   further   including  a wireless  connection   for
communicating information from the sensor to the comfort control system.
         96.    The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the comfort control system includes at least one
ceiling fan, and the switch is adapted to control the fan.
         97.    The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the comfort control system includes a plurality of
ceiling fans, and the switch is adapted to control the plurality of fans.
         98.    The apparatus of claim 93, wherein the comfort control system includes an HVAC
unit, and the switch is adapted to control the HVAC unit.
                                                 44
                                  AMENDED SHEET (ARTICLE 19)

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
