            METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROCESSING A DISCOUNT
                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
               A computer-implemented method for processing a discount is described.
The method is implemented using a payment processor computing device associated with a
payment network. The method includes receiving, at the payment processor computing
device, from a discount module computing device, a notification of an adjusted
authorization amount for a transaction, wherein the notification is received by the discount
module computing device from an intercept node computing device at the time a
cardholder makes a purchase. The method also includes receiving, at the payment
processor computing device, an authorization request message including a non-adjusted
authorization amount for the transaction, replacing the non-adjusted authorization amount
with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request message, and
transmitting the authorization request message to an issuer computing device.
PI446 7TD1               I4O

                                               1
              METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROCESSING A DISCOUNT
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
                [0001]   The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent
Application No. 2014353057, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
This patent application also relates to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/906,582,
filed November 20, 2013, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
                [0002]   This description relates to processing financial transactions, and
more particularly, to applying a discount to a purchase price of a product or service in a
financial transaction processed by a payment network.
                [0003]   In known methods for processing payments initiated by a payment
card holder (cardholder), the cardholder purchases a product or service from a merchant,
and the merchant transmits an authorization request message for the purchase price to an
acquirer who then transmits the authorization request through a payment network to an
issuer bank. The issuer bank transmits an authorization response message back through the
payment network to the acquirer, who then transmits the authorization response message to
the merchant. Such known methods do not include communication with, for example, an
"off network" computing device that determines whether one or more discounts may be
applied to a purchase price of the product or service, adjusts the purchase price
accordingly, and provides data for clearance and settlement after a discounted purchase
price has been approved by an issuer associated with the cardholder.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE
                [003A]   According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided
a computer-implemented method for processing a discount, said method implemented
using a payment processor computing device associated with a payment network, said
method comprising: receiving, at a discount module computing device, a first notification
associated with an authorization amount of a transaction from an intercept node computing
device, wherein the first notification includes stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non
adjusted authorization amount, the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                               2
received by the intercept node computing device from a merchant computing device;
determining, by the discount module computing device, an adjusted authorization amount
for the transaction based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization amount and the
SKU data, the difference between the non-adjusted authorization amount and the adjusted
authorization amount is a discount amount; generating, by the discount module computing
device, a second notification including the adjusted authorization amount; receiving, at the
payment processor computing device, from the discount module computing device, the
second notification including the adjusted authorization amount; receiving, at the intercept
node computing device, from the discount module computing device, a third notification
including the adjusted authorization amount; causing, by the intercept node computing
device, an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer computing device,
wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted authorization amount;
receiving, at the payment processor computing device, the authorization request message
from the acquirer computing device; replacing, by the payment processor computing
device, the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted authorization amount in
the authorization request message; transmitting, by the payment processor computing
device, the authorization request message including the adjusted authorization amount to an
issuer computing device; generating, by the issuer computing device, an authorization
response message based on the authorization request message, the authorization response
message being used to generate split settlement amounts at the intercept node computing
device; and transmitting, by the intercept node computing device, the split settlement
amounts to the merchant computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a
first settlement amount that includes the adjusted authorization amount and a second
settlement amount that includes the discount amount.
                [003B] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
system for processing a discount, said system comprising a payment processor computing
device including a memory device and a processor coupled to said memory device, said
payment processor computing device is associated with a payment network, said system
configured to: receive, at a discount module computing device, a first notification
associated with an authorization amount of a transaction from an intercept node computing
device, wherein the first notification includes stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non
adjusted authorization amount, the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount
received by the intercept node computing device from a merchant computing device;
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                                3
determine, by the discount module computing device, an adjusted authorization amount for
the transaction based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization amount and the SKU
data, the difference between the non-adjusted authorization amount and the adjusted
authorization amount is a discount amount; generate, by the discount module computing
device, a second notification including the adjusted authorization amount; receive, at the
payment processor computing device, from the discount module computing device, the
second notification including the adjusted authorization amount; receive, at the intercept
node computing device, from the discount module computing device, a third notification
including the adjusted authorization amount; cause, by the intercept node computing
device, an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer computing device,
wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted authorization amount;
receive, at the payment processor computing device, the authorization request message
from the acquirer computing device; replace, by the payment processor computing device,
the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted authorization amount in the
authorization request message; transmit, by the payment processor computing device, the
authorization request message including the adjusted authorization amount to an issuer
computing device;_generate, by the issuer computing device, anauthorization response
message based on the authorization request message, the authorization response message
being used to generate split settlement amounts at the intercept node computing device; and
transmit, by the intercept node computing device, the split settlement amounts to the
merchant computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement
amount that includes the adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount
that includes the discount amount.
                [003C]   According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided
an intercept node computing device for processing a discount, said intercept node
computing device comprising a memory device and a processor coupled to said memory
device, said intercept node computing device is configured to: receive stock keeping unit
(SKU) data and a non-adjusted authorization amount for a transaction from a merchant
computing device; transmit, to a discount module computing device, a first notification
including the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount, wherein the discount
module computing device determines an adjusted authorization amount for the transaction
based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization amount and the SKU data and
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              4
transmits, to a payment processor computing device, a second notification including the
adjusted authorization amount; receive, from the discount module computing device, a
third notification including     an adjusted authorization    amount associated with the
transaction; cause an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer
computing device, wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted
authorization   amount;    receive  an  authorization   response   message    based   on the
authorization request message, the authorization response message being used to generate
split settlement amounts; and transmit the split settlement amounts to the merchant
computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount
pertaining to the adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount pertaining
to an adjustment to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                [0004]   In one aspect, a computer-implemented method for processing a
discount is provided. The method is implemented using a payment processor computing
device associated with a payment network. The method includes receiving, at the payment
processor computing device, from a discount module computing device, a notification of an
adjusted authorization amount for a transaction. The notification is received by the discount
module computing device from an intercept node computing device at the time a
cardholder makes a purchase. The method also includes receiving, at the payment
processor computing device, an authorization request message including a non-adjusted
authorization amount for the transaction, replacing the non-adjusted authorization amount
with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request message, and
transmitting the authorization request message to an issuer computing device.
                [0005]   In another aspect, a payment processor computing device for
processing a discount is provided. The payment processor computing device includes a
memory device and a processor coupled to the memory device. The payment processor
computing device is associated with a payment network. The payment processor computing
device is configured to receive, from a discount module computing device, a notification of
an adjusted authorization amount for a transaction. The notification is received by the
discount module computing device from an intercept node computing device at the time a
cardholder makes a purchase. The payment processor computing device is additionally
configured to receive      an authorization request message including a non-adjusted
authorization amount for the transaction, replace the non-adjusted authorization amount
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              5
with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request message, and transmit
the authorization request message to an issuer computing device.
                [0006]   In another aspect, a computer-readable storage medium having
computer-executable instructions embodied thereon is provided. When executed by a
payment processor computing device associated with a payment network and having at
least one processor in communication with a memory, the computer-executable instructions
cause the payment processor computing device to receive, from a discount module
computing device, a notification of an adjusted authorization amount for a transaction. The
notification is received by the discount module computing device from an intercept node
computing device at the time a cardholder makes a purchase. The computer-executable
instructions additionally cause the payment processor computing device to receive an
authorization request message including a non-adjusted authorization amount for the
transaction, replace the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted authorization
amount in the authorization request message, and transmit the authorization request
message to an issuer computing device.
                [0007]   In another aspect, a computer-implemented method for processing
a discount is provided. The method is implemented using an intercept node computing
device. The method includes receiving, at the intercept node computing device, stock
keeping unit (SKU) data and a non-adjusted authorization amount for a transaction
associated with the SKU from a merchant computing device. The method additionally
includes transmitting, by the intercept node computing device to a discount module
computing device, a first notification including the SKU data and the non-adjusted
authorization amount, receiving, from the discount module computing device, a second
notification including an adjusted authorization amount associated with the transaction,
causing an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer computing
device, wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted authorization
amount, and transmitting split settlement amounts to the merchant computing device,
wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount pertaining to the
adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount pertaining to an adjustment
to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                [0008]   In another aspect, an intercept node computing device for
processing a discount is provided. The intercept node computing device includes a memory
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              6
device and a processor coupled to the memory device. The intercept node computing
device is configured to receive stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non-adjusted
authorization amount for a transaction associated with the SKU from a merchant
computing device. The intercept node computing device is additionally configured to
transmit, to a discount module computing device, a first notification including the SKU
data and the non-adjusted authorization amount, receive, from the discount module
computing device, a second notification associated with an adjusted authorization amount
associated with the transaction, cause an authorization request message to be transmitted to
an acquirer computing device, wherein the authorization request message includes the non
adjusted authorization amount, and transmit split settlement amounts to the merchant
computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount
pertaining to the adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount pertaining
to an adjustment to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                [0009]   In another aspect, a computer-readable storage medium having
computer-executable instructions embodied thereon is provided. When executed by an
intercept node computing device having at least one processor in communication with a
memory, the computer-executable instructions cause the intercept node computing device
to receive stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non-adjusted authorization amount for a
transaction associated with the SKU from a merchant computing device. Additionally, the
computer-executable instructions cause the intercept node computing device to transmit, to
a discount module computing device, a first notification including the SKU data and the
non-adjusted authorization amount, receive, from the discount module computing device, a
second notification including an adjusted authorization amount associated with the
transaction, cause an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer
computing device, wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted
authorization amount, and transmit split settlement amounts to a merchant computing
device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount pertaining to
the adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount pertaining to an
adjustment to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                [0010]   In another aspect, a computer-implemented method for processing
a discount is provided. The method is implemented using a discount module computing
device. The method includes receiving, from an intercept node computing device, a first
notification including a non-adjusted authorization amount and stock keeping unit (SKU)
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                               7
data, determining, by the discount module computing device, an adjusted authorization
amount based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization amount and the SKU data,
transmitting a second notification to a payment processor computing device associated with
a payment network, wherein the second notification includes the adjusted authorization
amount, and transmitting a third notification to the intercept node computing device,
wherein the third notification includes the adjusted authorization amount.
                [0011]   In another aspect, a discount module computing device for
processing a discount is provided. The discount module computing device includes a
memory device and a processor coupled to the memory device. The discount module
computing device is configured to receive, from an intercept node computing device, a first
notification including a non-adjusted authorization amount and stock keeping unit (SKU)
data, determine an adjusted authorization amount based at least in part on the non-adjusted
authorization amount and the SKU data, transmit a second notification to a payment
processor computing device associated with a payment network, wherein the second
notification includes the adjusted authorization amount, and transmit a third notification to
the intercept node computing device, wherein the third notification includes the adjusted
authorization amount.
                [0012]   In another aspect, a computer-readable storage medium having
computer-executable instructions embodied thereon is provided. When executed by a
discount module computing device having at least one processor in communication with a
memory, the computer-executable instructions cause the discount module computing
device to receive, from an intercept node computing device, a first notification including a
non-adjusted authorization amount and stock keeping unit (SKU) data, determine an
adjusted authorization amount based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization
amount and the SKU data, transmit a second notification to a payment processor computing
device associated with a payment network, wherein the second notification includes the
adjusted authorization amount, and transmit a third notification to the intercept node
computing device, wherein the third notification includes the adjusted authorization
amount.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                [0013]   FIGS. 1-8 show example embodiments of the methods and systems
described herein.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                                8
                [0014]    FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example multi-party
payment card industry system for enabling payment-by-card transactions in which
merchants and card issuers do not necessarily have a one-to-one relationship.
                [0015]    FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram of an example discount
processing system including a plurality of computing devices, including a merchant
computing device, an intercept node computing device, and a discount module computing
device, in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure.
                [0016]    FIG. 3 is an expanded block diagram of an example embodiment of
a server architecture of the discount processing system including the plurality of computing
devices in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure.
                [0017]    FIG. 4 illustrates an example configuration of a client system
shown in FIGS. 2 and 3.
                [0018]    FIG. 5 illustrates an example configuration of a server system
shown in FIGS. 2 and 3.
                [0019]    FIG. 6 is a data flow diagram of an example method of processing
an adjusted authorization amount for a transaction.
                [0020]    FIG. 7 is a flowchart of an example process that may be performed
by the discount processing system of FIGS. 2 and 3 for processing an adjusted
authorization amount.
                [0021]    FIG. 8 is a diagram of components of one or more example
computing devices that may be used in the discount processing system shown in FIGS. 2
and 3.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE
                [0022]    Systems     and   methods    described   herein   enable   applying
adjustments, such as discounts, to transactions in real time or on-the-fly. More specifically,
in implementations of systems and methods described herein, an intercept node computing
device is coupled to or included within a merchant point-of-sale computing device (i.e.,
point-of-sale terminal), referred to herein as a "merchant computing device." When a
payment card holder ("customer") purchases a product or service, the merchant computing
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              9
device transmits stock keeping unit ("SKU") data identifying the product or service and a
purchase price ("non-adjusted authorization amount") for the product or service to the
intercept node computing device. The intercept node computing device transmits at least
the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount to a discount module computing
device, which is in communication with a payment processor.
                [0023]    The discount module computing device determines an adjusted
authorization amount (i.e., an adjusted price) based at least on the SKU data and the non
adjusted authorization amount, and transmits the adjusted authorization amount to the
intercept node computing device. The discount module computing device also transmits at
least the adjusted authorization amount to a payment processor computing device
associated with a payment network. The intercept node computing device causes an
authorization request message for the non-adjusted authorization amount to be transmitted
to a computing device associated with an acquirer. The acquirer computing device
transmits the authorization request to the payment processor computing device. The
payment processor computing device modifies the authorization request message by
replacing the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted authorization amount
received from the discount module computing device, and transmits the modified
authorization request message to an issuer computing device. The issuer computing device
transmits an authorization response message to the payment processor computing device.
The authorization      response message includes      an authorization    for the adjusted
authorization amount.
                [0024]    The  payment     processor    computing    device   transmits  an
authorization   response message     to the    acquirer computing     device, wherein the
authorization response message includes an approval of a partial amount (i.e., the adjusted
authorization amount, referred to herein as the "partial approval"). The acquirer computing
device transmits the authorization response message to the intercept node computing
device. The intercept node computing device transmits split settlement amounts to the
merchant computing device. The split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount
that pertains to the adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount that
pertains to the adjustment to the non-adjusted authorization amount (e.g., a discount
applied by the discount module computing device).
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              10
                 [0025]   The merchant computing device may transmit a clearing record
based on the adjusted authorization amount (also referred to herein as a "partial approval
amount"), the payment processor computing device clears the adjusted approval amount
with the issuer computing device, the discount module computing device settles the
adjustment (e.g., discount) to the non-adjusted authorization amount, and the acquirer
computing device settles the transaction based on the adjusted authorization amount.
                 [0026]   The methods and systems described herein may be implemented
using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software,
firmware, hardware or any combination or subset thereof, wherein at least one technical
effect is achieved by performing at least one of: (a) receiving, by a payment processor
computing device, from a discount module computing device, a notification of an adjusted
authorization amount for a transaction, wherein the notification is received by the discount
module computing device from an intercept node computing device at the time a
cardholder makes a purchase; (b) receiving, by the payment processor computing device,
an authorization request message including a non-adjusted authorization amount for the
transaction;   (c) replacing the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted
authorization amount in the authorization request message; and (d) transmitting the
authorization request message to an issuer computing device. The technical effects
described herein apply to the technical field of applying adjustments such as discounts or
credits to transactions as they are being processed in a payment network (e.g., on-the-fly).
The    systems and methods       described herein    provide the technical    advantage   of
automatically determining whether one or more discounts may be applied to a purchase
price of a product or service, adjusting the purchase price accordingly, and providing data
for clearance and settlement after the discounted purchase price has been approved by an
issuer associated with an account holder who made the purchase. Accordingly, adjustments
to purchase prices, due for example, to discounts and/or credits may be applied more
efficiently than in conventional systems. More specifically, by replacing a non-adjusted
authorization amount with an adjusted authorization amount at the payment processor
while a transaction is being processed, the described systems and methods eliminate the
need to process a first payment transaction for an original amount and then process a
subsequent payment transaction for an adjustment (e.g., credit or discount) to the purchase
price. Additionally, a cardholder making a purchase is not required to manage or otherwise
keep track of coupons or other discounts or credits that may be applied to purchases.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                               11
                 [0027]   As used herein, the terms "transaction card," "financial transaction
card," and "payment card" refer to any suitable transaction card, such as a credit card, a
debit card, a prepaid card, a charge card, a membership card, a promotional card, a frequent
flyer card, an identification card, a gift card, and/or any other device that may hold
payment account information, such as mobile phones, smartphones, personal digital
assistants (PDAs), key fobs, and/or computers. Each type of transaction card can be used
as a method of payment for performing a transaction.
                 [0028]   In one embodiment, a computer program is provided, and the
program is embodied on a computer-readable medium. In an example embodiment, the
system is executed on a single computer system, without requiring a connection to a sever
computer.     In a further example embodiment, the system is being run in a Windows®
environment (Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation, Redmond,
Washington). In yet another embodiment, the system is run on a mainframe environment
and a UNIX® server environment (UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T located in
New York, New York). The application is flexible and designed to run in various different
environments without compromising any major functionality. In some embodiments, the
system includes multiple components distributed among a plurality of computing devices.
One or more components may be in the form of computer-executable instructions
embodied in a computer-readable medium. The systems and processes are not limited to
the specific embodiments described herein. In addition, components of each system and
each process can be practiced independent and separate from other components and
processes described herein. Each component and process can also be used in combination
with other assembly packages and processes.
                 [0029]   The following detailed description illustrates embodiments of the
disclosure by way of example and not by way of limitation. It is contemplated that the
disclosure has general application to processing financial transaction data by a third party
in industrial, commercial, and residential applications.
                 [0030]   As used herein, an element or step recited in the singular and
preceded with the word "a" or "an" should be understood as not excluding plural elements
or steps, unless such exclusion is explicitly recited. Furthermore, references to "example
embodiment" or "one embodiment" of the present disclosure are not intended to be
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                             12
interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the
recited features.
                [0031]  FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating an example multi-party
payment card system 120 for enabling payment-by-card transactions in which merchants
and card issuers do not necessarily have a one-to-one relationship. The present disclosure
relates to payment card system 120, such as a credit card payment system using the
MasterCard® payment card system payment network 128 (also referred to as an
"interchange" or "interchange network").     MasterCard® payment card system payment
network 128 is a proprietary communications standard promulgated by MasterCard
International Incorporated® for the exchange of financial transaction data between
financial institutions that are members of MasterCard International Incorporated@.
(MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard International Incorporated located in
Purchase, New York).
                [0032]  In payment card system 120, a financial institution such as an
issuer 130 issues a payment account card, such as a credit card account or a debit card
account, to a cardholder 122, who uses the payment account card to tender payment for a
purchase from a merchant 124.       To accept payment with the payment account card,
merchant 124 must normally establish an account with a financial institution that is part of
the financial payment system. This financial institution is usually called the "merchant
bank" or the "acquiring bank" or "acquirer bank" or simply "acquirer". When a cardholder
122 tenders payment for a purchase with a payment account card (also known as a financial
transaction card), merchant 124 transmits stock keeping unit ("SKU") data and a non
adjusted authorization request amount (non-adjusted price) to an intercept node computing
device 123. Intercept node computing device 123 transmits the SKU data and the non
adjusted request amount to a discount module computing device 125.
                [0033]  Discount module computing device 125 determines an adjusted
authorization request amount based at least in part on the SKU data and the non-adjusted
authorization amount and transmits the adjusted authorization amount to intercept node
computing device 123. Discount module computing device 125 also transmits the adjusted
authorization amount to payment network 128. Intercept node computing device 123
causes a request for authorization to be transmitted to acquirer 126 for the non-adjusted
authorization amount (i.e., the non-adjusted price). That is, the intercept node computing
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                               13
device 123 may transmit the authorization request itself or it may instruct merchant 124 to
transmit the authorization request. When the merchant transmits the authorization request,
the request may be performed over the telephone, but it usually is performed through the
use of a point-of-interaction terminal ("merchant computing device"), which reads the
cardholder's account information from the magnetic stripe on the payment account card
and communicates electronically with the transaction processing computers of acquirer
126.    Alternatively, acquirer 126 may authorize a third party to perform transaction
processing on its behalf. In this case, the point-of-interaction terminal will be configured to
communicate with the third party.         Such a third party is usually called a "merchant
processor" or an "acquiring processor."
                [0034]   Using payment card system payment network 128, the computers
of acquirer 126 or the merchant processor will communicate with the computers of issuer
130, to determine whether the cardholder's account 132 is in good standing and whether
the purchase is covered by the cardholder's available credit line or account balance. In
some implementations, a server system ("payment processor computing device") of
payment network 128 matches the adjusted authorization amount received from discount
module computing device 125 with the received authorization request and replaces the non
adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request with the adjusted authorization
amount, prior to transmitting the authorization request to computers of issuer 130. Based
on these determinations, the request for authorization of the adjusted authorization amount
will be declined or accepted by issuer 130. If the request is accepted, an authorization code
for a partial authorization, (i.e., authorization for the adjusted authorization amount) is
issued to merchant 124.
                [0035]   When a request for authorization is accepted by issuer 130, the
available credit line or available balance of cardholder's account 132 is decreased.
Normally, a charge is not posted immediately to a cardholder's account because bankcard
associations, such as MasterCard International Incorporated@, have promulgated rules that
do not allow a merchant to charge, or "capture," a transaction until goods are shipped or
services are delivered. When a merchant ships or delivers the goods or services, merchant
124 captures the transaction by, for example, appropriate data entry procedures on the
point-of-interaction terminal. If a cardholder cancels a transaction before it is captured, a
"void" is generated. If a cardholder returns goods after the transaction has been captured, a
"credit" is generated.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                               14
                [0036]    For debit card transactions, when a request for authorization is
approved by the issuer, the cardholder's account 132 is decreased. Normally, a charge is
posted immediately to cardholder's account 132. The bankcard association then transmits
the approval to the acquiring processor for distribution of goods/services, or information or
cash in the case of an ATM.
                [0037]    After a transaction is captured, the transaction is settled between
merchant 124, acquirer 126, and issuer 130. Settlement refers to the transfer of financial
data or funds between the merchant's account, acquirer 126, and issuer 130 related to the
transaction. Usually, transactions are captured and accumulated into a "batch," which is
settled as a group.    In payment card system 120, settlement includes settlement of the
adjusted authorization amount as well as settlement of the portion of the non-adjusted
authorization amount that was not included in the adjusted authorization amount (e.g., a
discount or credit), as described herein.
                [0038]    FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram of an example discount
processing system 200 in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In the
example embodiment, system 200 includes a server system 202 and a plurality of client
subsystems, also referred to as client systems 204 or client computing devices, connected
to server system 202. In one embodiment, client systems 204 are computers including a
web browser, such that server system 202 is accessible to client systems 204 using the
Internet. Client systems 204 are interconnected to the Internet through many interfaces
including a network, such as a local area network (LAN) and/or a wide area network
(WAN), dial-in connections, cable modems, wireless-connections, and special high-speed
ISDN lines. Client systems 204 may be any device capable of interconnecting to the
Internet including a web-based phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), or other web
connectable equipment. A database server 206 is connected to a database 208 containing
information on a variety of matters, as described below in greater detail. In one
embodiment, database 208 is stored on server system 202 and may be accessed by potential
users at one of client systems 204 by logging onto server system 202 through one of client
systems 204. In any alternative embodiment, database 208 is stored remotely from server
system 202 and may be non-centralized. Server system 202 could be any type of computing
device configured to perform the steps described herein. As discussed below, adjusted
authorization amounts, non-adjusted authorization amounts, and cardholder account data
are stored in database 208.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              15
                [0039]    FIG. 3 is an expanded block diagram of an example embodiment of
a server architecture of discount processing system 200 in accordance                 with one
embodiment of the present disclosure. Discount processing system 200 includes server
system 202 and client systems 204. Server system 202 further includes database server 206,
an application server 302, a web server 304, a fax server 306, a directory server 308, and a
mail server 310. A disk storage unit 312 is coupled to database server 206 and directory
server 308. Servers 206, 302, 304, 306, 308, and 310 are coupled in a local area network
(LAN) 314. In addition, a system administrator's workstation 316, a user workstation 318,
and a supervisor's workstation 320 are coupled to LAN 314. Alternatively, workstations
316, 318, and 320 are coupled to LAN 314 using an Internet link or are connected through
an Intranet.
                [0040]    Each workstation, 316, 318, and 320, is a personal computer
having a web browser. Although the functions performed at the workstations typically are
illustrated as being performed at respective workstations 316, 318, and 320, such functions
can be performed at one of many personal computers coupled to LAN 314. Workstations
316, 318, and 320 are illustrated as being associated with separate functions only to
facilitate an understanding of the different types of functions that can be performed by
individuals having access to LAN 314.
                [0041]    Server system 202 is configured to be communicatively coupled to
various entities, including acquirers 322 and issuers 324, and to third parties, e.g., auditors,
334 using an Internet connection 326. Server system 202 is also communicatively coupled
with a merchant 207. Merchant 207 is communicatively coupled to intercept node
computing device 123. Intercept node computing device 123 is communicatively coupled
to discount module computing device 125. Discount module computing device 125 is
communicatively coupled to server system 202. In some implementations, intercept node
computing device 123 is communicatively coupled to server system 202. In some
implementations, intercept node computing device 123 is integrated within a computing
device of merchant 207. In some implementations, discount module computing device 125
is included within server system 202. In other implementations, discount module
computing device 125 is external to server system 202 and is operated by a third party. In
some implementations, discount module computing device 125 is a cardholder computing
device 402 (e.g., a smartphone) (FIG. 4). As described herein, communication among
devices may occur over any form of wireless or wired connection. The communication in
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              16
the example embodiment is illustrated as being performed using the Internet, however, any
other wide area network (WAN)           type communication can be utilized in other
embodiments, i.e., the systems and processes are not limited to being practiced using the
Internet. In addition, and rather than WAN 328, local area network 314 could be used in
place of WAN 328.
                [0042]   In the example embodiment, any authorized individual or entity
having a workstation 330 may access system 200. At least one of the client systems
includes a manager workstation 332 located at a remote location. Workstations 330 and
332 include personal computers having a web browser. Also, workstations 330 and 332 are
configured to communicate with server system 202. Furthermore, fax server 306
communicates with remotely located client systems, including a client system 332, using a
telephone link. Fax server 306 is configured to communicate with other client systems 316,
318, and 320 as well.
                [0043]   FIG. 4 illustrates an example configuration of a cardholder
computing device 402 operated by a cardholder 401. In some implementations, discount
module computing device 125 is a cardholder computing device 402. Additionally, client
systems ("client computing devices") 204, 316, 318, and 320, workstation 330, and
manager workstation 332 (shown in FIG. 3), and intercept node computing device 123 may
include similar components to cardholder computing device 402.
                [0044]   Cardholder computing device 402 includes a processor 405 for
executing instructions.    In some embodiments, executable instructions are stored in a
memory area 410. Processor 405 may include one or more processing units (e.g., in a
multi-core configuration). Memory area 410 is any device allowing information such as
executable instructions and/or other data to be stored and retrieved. Memory area 410 may
include one or more computer-readable media.
                [0045]   Cardholder computing device 402 also includes at least one media
output component 415 for presenting information to cardholder 401.          Media output
component 415 is any component capable of conveying information to cardholder 401. In
some embodiments, media output component 415 includes an output adapter such as a
video adapter and/or an audio adapter.       An output adapter is operatively coupled to
processor 405 and operatively couplable to an output device such as a display device (e.g.,
a liquid crystal display (LCD), organic light emitting diode (OLED) display, cathode ray
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              17
tube (CRT), or "electronic ink" display) or an audio output device (e.g., a speaker or
headphones).
                [0046]   In some embodiments, cardholder computing device 402 includes
an input device 420 for receiving input from cardholder 401.         Input device 420 may
include, for example, a keyboard, a pointing device, a mouse, a stylus, a touch sensitive
panel (e.g., a touch pad or a touch screen), a gyroscope, an accelerometer, a position
detector, or an audio input device.      A single component such as a touch screen may
function as both an output device of media output component 415 and input device 420.
                [0047]   Cardholder     computing   device   402    may    also  include  a
communication interface 425, which is communicatively couplable to a remote device such
as server system 202 or a web server operated by a merchant. Communication interface
425 may include, for example, a wired or wireless network adapter or a wireless data
transceiver for use with a mobile phone network (e.g., Global System for Mobile
communications (GSM), 3G, 4G or Bluetooth) or other mobile data network (e.g.,
Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WIMAX)).
                [0048]   Stored in memory area 410 are, for example, computer-readable
instructions for providing a user interface to cardholder 401 via media output component
415 and, optionally, receiving and processing input from input device 420.           A user
interface may include, among other possibilities, a web browser and client application.
Web browsers enable cardholders, such as cardholder 401, to display and interact with
media and other information typically embedded on a web page or a website from server
system 202 or a web server associated with a merchant.          A client application allows
cardholder 401 to interact with a server application from server system 202 or a web server
associated with a merchant.
                [0049]   FIG. 5 illustrates an example configuration of a server computing
device 502 such as server system 202 (shown in FIGS. 2 and 3). Server computing device
502 may include, but is not limited to, database server 206, application server 302, web
server 304, fax server 306, directory server 308, and mail server 310. In some
implementations, discount module computing device 125 includes components that are
similar to components of server computing device 502.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                                18
                [0050]     Server computing device 502 includes a processor 504 for
executing instructions. Instructions may be stored in a memory area 506, for example.
Processor 504 may include one or more processing units (e.g., in a multi-core
configuration).
                [0051]     Processor 504 is operatively coupled to a communication interface
508 such that server computing device 502 is capable of communicating with a remote
device such as cardholder computing device 402 or another server computing device 502.
For example, communication interface 508 may receive requests from client systems 204
via the Internet, as illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 3.
                [0052]     Processor 504 may also be operatively coupled to a storage device
510. Storage device 510 is any computer-operated hardware suitable for storing and/or
retrieving data.     In some embodiments, storage device 510 is integrated in server
computing device 502. For example, server computing device 502 may include one or
more hard disk drives as storage device 510. In other embodiments, storage device 510 is
external to server computing device 502 and may be accessed by a plurality of server
computing devices 502. For example, storage device 510 may include multiple storage
units such as hard disks or solid state disks in a redundant array of inexpensive disks
(RAID) configuration.       Storage device 510 may include a storage area network (SAN)
and/or a network attached storage (NAS) system.
                [0053]     In some embodiments, processor 504 is operatively coupled to
storage device 510 via a storage interface 512. Storage interface 512 is any component
capable of providing processor 504 with access to storage device 510. Storage interface
512 may include, for example, an Advanced Technology Attachment (ATA) adapter, a
Serial ATA (SATA) adapter, a Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) adapter, a RAID
controller, a SAN adapter, a network adapter, and/or any component providing processor
504 with access to storage device 510.
                [0054]     Memory areas 410 and 506 may include, but are not limited to,
random access memory (RAM) such as dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM),
read-only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM),
electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), and non-volatile RAM
(NVRAM). The above memory types are example only, and are thus not limiting as to the
types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              19
                [0055]   FIG. 6 is a data flow diagram 600 of an example method of
processing an adjusted authorization amount for a transaction. Cardholder 122 purchases
602 a product or service having a SKU, or other product identifier, and a purchase price. A
merchant computing device 207 (e.g., point-of-sale terminal) transmits 604 the purchase
price ("non-adjusted authorization amount") and SKU to intercept node computing device
123. In some implementations, intercept node computing device 123 additionally transmits
an identifier for the transaction, including, for example a cardholder account number or
payment card number. In some implementations, intercept node computing device 123 is
integrated into computing device 207 of merchant 124. In other implementations, intercept
node computing device 123 is separate and communicatively coupled to computing device
207 of merchant 124.
                [0056]   Intercept node computing device 123 transmits 606 a first
notification to discount module computing device 125 including at least the SKU (or other
product identifier) and the non-adjusted authorization amount. In some implementations,
intercept node computing device 123 additionally transmits a transaction identifier, for
example an account number (e.g., payment card number) of cardholder 122, to discount
module computing device 125. Discount module computing device 125 may be, for
example, a server computing device of server system 202, a server computing device of a
third party, a cardholder computing device (e.g., smartphone), or other computing device
capable of performing the functions described herein. For example, discount module
computing device 125 may store, in memory, at least one discount that may be applied to at
least one SKU. For example, the discount may be 20% off of the purchase price of a
product associated with the SKU. In some implementations, discount module computing
device 125 may store one or more qualifiers in association with the SKU and the discount,
for example a cardholder account number and a date or date range. For example, in some
implementations, the qualifier may require that the purchase must be made by the
cardholder associated with the cardholder account number stored by discount module
computing device 125 and/or the purchase must take place by the date or within the date
range stored by discount module computing device 125 in order for discount module
computing device 125 to apply the discount to the purchase price ("non-adjusted
authorization amount"). Accordingly, in such implementations, intercept node computing
device 123 transmits such data (e.g., cardholder account number and/or purchase date) to
discount module computing device 125. In some implementations, rather than applying a
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              20
discount, discount module computing device 125 is configured to apply a credit. For
example, the cardholder account identifier may be associated with one or more rewards, for
example money (or cash equivalent credits), that may be applied to the purchase price
("non-adjusted authorization amount"). In either of the exemplary implementations, the
discount or credit effectively changes (e.g., reduces) the original purchase price to a
different (e.g., reduced) purchase price (i.e., an adjusted authorization amount). By
applying the discount or credit to the purchase price (i.e., the non-adjusted authorization
amount), discount module computing device 125 generates an adjusted authorization
amount.
                [0057]    Discount module computing device 125 transmits 608 a second
notification to server system 202 that includes at least the adjusted authorization amount. In
some implementations, discount module computing device 125 also includes identifying
information associated with the adjusted authorization amount in the second notification.
For example, discount module computing device 125 may include the transaction identifier
in the second notification. Additionally, discount module computing device 125 transmits
610 a third notification to intercept node computing device 123 that includes the adjusted
authorization amount and, at least in some implementations, the transaction identifier.
Intercept node computing device 123 causes an authorization request message to be
transmitted 612 to acquirer 126 including the non-adjusted authorization amount. In some
implementations, intercept node 123 receives the authorization request from merchant
computing device 207 at step 604, holds the authorization request message until receiving
the adjusted authorization amount in step 610, and transmits the authorization request
message to acquirer 126 at step 612. In other implementations, rather than directly
transmitting the authorization request message to acquirer 126, intercept node computing
device 123 transmits an instruction to merchant computing device 207 to transmit the
authorization request message to acquirer 126. Acquirer 126, and more specifically,
acquirer computing device 322 (FIG. 3) transmits 614 the authorization request message to
server system 202. Server system 202 matches the received authorization request message
with the received adjusted authorization amount from step 608. For example, server system
202 may match the received authorization request message and the received adjusted
authorization amount using the transaction identifier discussed above. Additionally, server
system 202 replaces the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted authorization
amount in the authorization request message. In at least some implementations in which
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              21
cardholder 122 uses a payment card that includes an EMV ("Europay MasterCard Visa")
chip or other microchip that communicates with the merchant computing device 207 to
generate a security cryptogram based at least in part on the original purchase amount (e.g.,
the non-adjusted authorization amount), server system 202 moves the non-adjusted
authorization amount to an additional field of the modified authorization request message,
for use by the issuer 130 in validating the cryptogram against the non-adjusted
authorization amount. In at least some implementations,            the cryptogram      in such
transactions  is included in the authorization       request message and the modified
authorization request message, for example in data element ("DE") 55.
                [0058]    Next, server system 202 transmits 616 the modified authorization
request message to issuer 130, and more specifically, computing device 324 (FIG. 3) of
issuer 130. Issuer transmits 618 an authorization response message to server system 202.
Server system 202 transmits 620 the authorization response message to acquirer 126 as a
partial  authorization   (i.e., the  authorization response message       includes   a partial
authorization code). More specifically, since issuer 130 only authorized a portion of the
purchase price (i.e., the adjusted authorization amount), server system 202 transmits the
authorization response message including a partial authorization that pertains to the
adjusted authorization amount.
                [0059]    Next, acquirer 126 transmits 622 the authorization response
message to intercept node computing device 123. Intercept node computing device 123
transmits 624 split settlement amounts to merchant computing device 207 to complete the
transaction and print a receipt. The receipt may include a notification that the original price
was adjusted (e.g., that a discount was applied). More specifically, intercept node
computing device 123 transmits the first settlement amount pertaining to the second
authorization response message (i.e., the adjusted authorization amount) and second
settlement amount pertaining to the discount or credit (i.e., the non-adjusted authorization
amount minus the adjusted authorization amount) to merchant computing device 207.
Accordingly, the first settlement amount and the second settlement amount, when
combined, account for the full purchase price (i.e., non-adjusted authorization amount). In
some implementations, multiple SKUs may be included in the transaction. In some
implementations, discount module computing device 125 may apply multiple discounts
and/or credits to generate the adjusted purchase price, and the multiple discounts and/or
credits are accounted for in the second settlement amount. In other implementations,
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              22
acquirer transmits 622 the second authorization response message directly to merchant
computing device 207 rather than intercept node computing device 123 receiving the
authorization response message and transmitting it to merchant computing device 207. In
such implementations, intercept node computing device 123 still transmits the second
settlement amount pertaining to the one or more discounts and/or credits to merchant
computing device 207.
                [0060]   Additionally,   in some implementations,     merchant   computing
device 207 transmits 626 a clearing record based on the adjusted authorization amount
("partial approval amount") to acquirer 126. Acquirer 126 clears 628 the transaction based
on the partial approval amount. Next, server system 202 clears 630 the partial approval
amount with issuer 130. Additionally, discount module computing device 125 or an entity
associated with discount module computing device 125 settles 632 the discount(s) and/or
credit(s) that were applied by discount module computing device 125 to generate the
adjusted authorization amount. Additionally, acquirer 126 settles 634 the transaction based
on the partial approval amount (i.e., the adjusted authorization amount).
                [0061]   FIG. 7 is a flowchart of an example process 700 that may be
performed by discount processing system 200 for processing an adjusted authorization
amount. Initially, server system ("payment processor computing device") 202 receives 702,
from discount module computing device 125, a notification of an adjusted authorization
amount for a transaction. The notification is received by the discount module computing
device 125 from an intercept node computing device 123 at the time a cardholder makes a
purchase. Additionally, server system 202 receives 704 an authorization request message
including a non-adjusted authorization amount for the transaction. Additionally, server
system 202 replaces 706 the non-adjusted authorization amount with the adjusted
authorization amount in the authorization request message. In addition, server system 202
transmits 708 the authorization request message to an issuer computing device 324. In
some implementations, server system 202 additionally receives, from the issuer computing
device 324, an authorization response message including an approval of the adjusted
authorization amount. Additionally, server system 202 may transmit the authorization
response message to an acquirer computing device 322, including a partial approval
pertaining to the adjusted authorization amount.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              23
                [0062]   FIG. 8 is a diagram 800 of components of one or more example
computing devices, for example, server system 202, that may be used in embodiments of
the described systems and methods. FIG. 8 further shows a configuration of database 208
(FIG. 2). Database 208 is coupled to several separate components within server system
202, which perform specific tasks.
                [0063]   Server system 202 includes a notification receiving component 802
for receiving from discount module computing device 125 a notification of an adjusted
authorization amount for a transaction. Server system 202 also includes an authorization
request receiving component 804 for receiving an authorization request message including
a non-adjusted authorization amount for the transaction. Server system 202 additionally
includes a replacing component 806 for replacing the non-adjusted authorization amount
with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request message. Additionally,
server system 202 includes a transmitting component 808 for transmitting the authorization
request message to an issuer computing device.
                [0064]   In an example embodiment, database 208 is divided into a plurality
of sections, including but not limited to, an adjusted authorization amounts section 810, a
non-adjusted authorization amounts section 812, and cardholder account data section 814.
These sections within database 208 are interconnected to retrieve and store information in
accordance with the functions and processes described above.
                [0065]   The term processor, as used herein, refers to central processing
units,  microprocessors,    microcontrollers,  reduced   instruction  set  circuits (RISC),
application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), logic circuits, and any other circuit or
processor capable of executing the functions described herein.
                [0066]   As used    herein, the terms "software"       and "firmware"   are
interchangeable, and include any computer program stored in memory for execution by
processor 405, 504, including RAM memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM
memory, and non-volatile RAM (NVRAM) memory.                 The above memory types are
example only, and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a
computer program.
                [0067]   As will be appreciated based on the foregoing specification, the
above-discussed embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented using computer
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              24
programming or engineering techniques including computer software, firmware, hardware
or any combination or subset thereof.       Any such resulting computer program, having
computer-readable and/or computer-executable instructions, may be embodied or provided
within one or more computer-readable media, thereby making a computer program
product, i.e., an article of manufacture, according to the discussed embodiments of the
disclosure. These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software
applications or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor, and can
be implemented in a high-level procedural and/or object-oriented programming language,
and/or in assembly/machine language. As used herein, the terms "machine-readable
medium," "computer-readable medium," and "computer-readable media" refer to any
computer program product, apparatus and/or device (e.g., magnetic discs, optical disks,
memory, Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs)) used to provide machine instructions
and/or data to a programmable processor, including a machine-readable medium that
receives machine instructions as a machine-readable signal. The "machine-readable
medium," "computer-readable medium," and "computer-readable media," however, do not
include transitory signals (i.e., they are "non-transitory"). The term "machine-readable
signal" refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and/or data to a
programmable processor.
                 [0068]  The above-described embodiments of methods and systems enable
applying adjustments, such as discounts or credits, to transactions in real time or on-the-fly.
As a result, discounts and/or credits that are associated with a product or service and for
which the cardholder qualifies, may be automatically applied to a payment card transaction
to adjust the purchase price of the product or service, without requiring additional effort on
the part of the cardholder.
                 [0069]  This written description uses examples, including the best mode, to
enable any person skilled in the art to practice the disclosure, including making and using
any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of
the disclosure is defined by the claims, and may include other examples that occur to those
skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if
they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if
they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal
languages of the claims.
P234467D1 14565308 1

                                              25
CLAIMS:
               1.      A computer-implemented method for processing a discount, said
method implemented using a payment processor computing device associated with a
payment network, said method comprising:
               receiving, at a discount module computing device, a first notification
associated with an authorization amount of a transaction from an intercept node computing
device, wherein the first notification includes stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non
adjusted authorization amount, the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount
received by the intercept node computing device from a merchant computing device;
               determining, by the discount module computing device, an adjusted
authorization amount for the transaction based at least in part on the non-adjusted
authorization amount and the SKU data, the difference between the non-adjusted
authorization amount and the adjusted authorization amount is a discount amount;
               generating, by the discount module computing device, a second notification
including the adjusted authorization amount;
               receiving, at the payment processor computing device, from the discount
module computing device, the second notification including the adjusted authorization
amount;
               receiving, at the intercept node computing device, from the discount module
computing device, a third notification including the adjusted authorization amount;
               causing, by the intercept node computing device, an authorization request
message to be transmitted to an acquirer computing device, wherein the authorization
request message includes the non-adjusted authorization amount;
               receiving, at the payment processor computing device, the authorization
request message from the acquirer computing device;
               replacing, by the payment processor computing device, the non-adjusted
authorization amount with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request
message;
               transmitting, by the payment processor computing device, the authorization
request message including the adjusted authorization amount to an issuer computing
device;
               generating, by the issuer computing device, an authorization response
message based on the authorization request message, the authorization response message
being used to generate split settlement amounts at the intercept node computing device; and
PI446 7TD1               I4O

                                                26
                 transmitting, by the intercept node computing device, the split settlement
amounts to the merchant computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a
first settlement amount that includes the adjusted authorization amount and a second
settlement amount that includes the discount amount.
                 2.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
                 receiving, from the issuer computing device, the authorization response
message including an approval of the adjusted authorization amount; and
                 transmitting the authorization response message to the acquirer computing
device including a partial approval pertaining to the adjusted authorization amount.
                 3.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising matching, by the
payment processor computing device, the received authorization request message with the
received adjusted authorization amount using a transaction identifier.
                 4.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
                 transmitting, by the discount module computing device, the second
notification to the payment processor computing device; and
                 transmitting, by the discount module, the third notification to the intercept
node computing device, wherein the third notification includes the adjusted authorization
amount.
                 5.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising storing, by the discount
module computing device, at least one discount amount associated with at least one stock
keeping unit (SKU).
                 6.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
                 storing, by the discount module computing device, a first qualifier in
association with an account number, the discount amount, and , the SKU data wherein the
first qualifier specifies that the transaction must be associated with the account number and
the SKU data for the discount amount to be applied; and
                 determining the adjusted authorization amount includes determining that the
transaction is associated with the account number and the SKU data, and applying the
discount amount to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
P23467f                     I4630

                                              27
               7.      The method of Claim 6, further comprising storing, by the discount
module computing device, a second qualifier in association with a date range, the discount
amount, and the SKU data, wherein the second qualifier specifies that the transaction must
be associated with the SKU data and must occur within the date range for the discount
amount to be applied; and
               determining the adjusted authorization amount includes determining that the
transaction is associated with the SKU data and occurred within the date range, and
applying the discount amount to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
               8.      The method of Claim 1, further comprising transmitting, by the
discount module computing device, a transaction identifier associated with the transaction
to at least one of the payment processor computing device and the intercept node
computing device.
               9.      A system for processing a discount, said system comprising a
payment processor computing device including a memory device and a processor coupled
to said memory device, said payment processor computing device is associated with a
payment network, said system configured to:
               receive, at a discount module computing device, a first notification
associated with an authorization amount of a transaction from an intercept node computing
device, wherein the first notification includes stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non
adjusted authorization amount, the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount
received by the intercept node computing device from a merchant computing device;
               determine,   by the    discount module     computing    device, an adjusted
authorization amount for the transaction based at least in part on the non-adjusted
authorization amount and the SKU data, the difference between the non-adjusted
authorization amount and the adjusted authorization amount is a discount amount;
               generate, by the discount module computing device, a second notification
including the adjusted authorization amount;
               receive, at the payment processor computing device, from the discount
module computing device, the second notification including the adjusted authorization
amount;
               receive, at the intercept node computing device, from the discount module
computing device, a third notification including the adjusted authorization amount;
 MIA467D                 I4O

                                              28
                cause, by the intercept node computing device, an authorization request
message to be transmitted to an acquirer computing device, wherein the authorization
request message includes the non-adjusted authorization amount;
                receive, at the payment processor computing device, the authorization
request message from the acquirer computing device;
                replace, by the payment processor computing device, the non-adjusted
authorization amount with the adjusted authorization amount in the authorization request
message;
                transmit, by the payment processor computing device, the authorization
request message including the adjusted authorization amount to an issuer computing
device;
                generate, by the issuer computing device, an-authorization response message
based on the authorization request message, the authorization response message being used
to generate split settlement amounts at the intercept node computing device; and
                transmit, by the intercept node computing device, the split settlement
amounts to the merchant computing device, wherein the split settlement amounts include a
first settlement amount that includes the adjusted authorization amount and a second
settlement amount that includes the discount amount.
                10.     The system of Claim 9, wherein said payment processor computing
device is further configured to:
                receive, from the issuer computing device, the authorization response
message including an approval of the adjusted authorization amount; and
                transmit the authorization response message to the acquirer computing
device including a partial approval pertaining to the adjusted authorization amount.
                11.     The system of Claim 9, wherein said payment processor computing
device is further configured to match the received authorization request message with the
received adjusted authorization amount using a transaction identifier.
                12.     The system of Claim 9, said system further comprising said discount
module computing device, said discount module computing device configured to:
                transmit the second notification to said payment processor computing
device; and
 MIA467D                  I4O

                                              29
               transmit the third notification to the intercept node computing device,
wherein the third notification includes the adjusted authorization amount.
                13.    The system of Claim 9, said discount module computing device
further configured to store at least one discount amount associated with at least one stock
keeping unit (SKU).
                14.    The system of Claim 9, said discount module computing device
further configured to:
               store a first qualifier in association with an account number, the discount
amount, and the SKU data, wherein the first qualifier specifies that the transaction must be
associated with the account number and the SKU data for the discount amount to be
applied;
               determine that the transaction is associated with the account number and the
SKU data; and
               apply the discount amount to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                15.    The system of Claim 14, said discount module computing device
further configured to store a second qualifier in association with a date range, the discount
amount, and the SKU data wherein the second qualifier specifies that the transaction must
be associated with the SKU data and must occur within the date range for the discount
amount to be applied;
               determine that the transaction is associated with the SKU data and occurred
within the date range; and
               apply the discount amount to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                16.    The system of Claim 9, said discount module computing device
further configured to transmit a transaction identifier associated with the transaction to at
least one of said payment processor computing device and the intercept node computing
device.
                17.    An intercept node computing device for processing a discount, said
intercept node computing device comprising a memory device and a processor coupled to
said memory device, said intercept node computing device is configured to:
 MIA467D                  I4O

                                               30
               receive stock keeping unit (SKU) data and a non-adjusted authorization
amount for a transaction from a merchant computing device;
               transmit, to a discount module computing device, a first notification
including the SKU data and the non-adjusted authorization amount, wherein the discount
module computing device determines an adjusted authorization amount for the transaction
based at least in part on the non-adjusted authorization amount and the SKU data and
transmits, to a payment processor computing device, a second notification including the
adjusted authorization amount;
               receive, from the discount module computing device, a third notification
including an adjusted authorization amount associated with the transaction;
               cause an authorization request message to be transmitted to an acquirer
computing device, wherein the authorization request message includes the non-adjusted
authorization amount;
               receive an authorization response message based on the authorization
request message, the authorization response message being used to generate split settlement
amounts; and
               transmit the split settlement amounts to the merchant computing device,
wherein the split settlement amounts include a first settlement amount pertaining to the
adjusted authorization amount and a second settlement amount pertaining to an adjustment
to the non-adjusted authorization amount.
                18.    The intercept node computing device of Claim 17, further configured
to cause the authorization request message to be transmitted to the acquirer computing
device by transmitting the authorization request message to the acquirer computing device
directly.
                19.    The intercept node computing device of Claim 18, further configured
to hold the authorization request message until after said intercept node computing device
has received the third notification including the adjusted authorization amount.
               20.     The intercept node computing device of Claim 17, further configured
to cause the authorization request message to be transmitted to the acquirer computing
device by transmitting an instruction to the merchant computing device to transmit the
authorization request message to the acquirer computing device.
 MIA467D                 I4O

                                     31
           MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INCORPORATED
           Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON
PI446 7TD1        I4O

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
