Abstract
A system for improving visibility of one or more webpages of one or more retail stores in online
searches is provided. The system includes one or more client devices associated with the retail
stores, and a data processing arrangement coupled in communication with the client devices.
The data processing arrangement is operable to receive one or more store- specific messages
from a given client device associated with a given retail store, and is then operable to process
the store-specific messages to create and/or update a given webpage of the given retail store.
Moreover, the data processing arrangement is operable to parse the store-specific messages to
extract one or more keywords, and is operable to provide the keywords in the given webpage.
This enables keyword-based searching of the given webpage of the given retail store in the
online searches.

 WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
       SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING VISIBILITY OF WEBPAGES OF RETAIL STORES
                                       IN ONLINE SEARCHES
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
      This application is a patent-of-addition of Indian patent application no. 1326/CHE/2012
 5    entitled "SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING WEBSITE" dated April 2, 2012
      claiming priority from the same and incorporated by reference in its -entirety.
      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      The present invention generally relates to creating and/or updating webpages, and more
      specifically, to systems for improving visibility of one or more webpages of one or more
10   retail stores in online searches. Further, the present invention relates to methods of
     operating the systems for improving the visibility of the webpages of the retail stores in the
     online searches. Furthermore, the present invention also relates to software products
     recorded on non-transitory machine-readable data storage media, wherein the software
     products are executable upon computing hardware to implement the aforesaid methods.
15   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     Today, when a customer wishes to buy a particular product offered by a particular brand,
     he/she may try to search for information related to that particular product, for example,
     using an online search engine, such as Google. Apart from information about features,
     reviews and/or prices of the particular product, the customer may be interested in knowing
20   about brick-and-mortar retail stores from where he/she may purchase that particular
     product.
     In order to provide information that is more relevant to the customer, the online search
     engine typically organizes its search results with respect to a geographical location that
     could be of interest to the customer. The geographical location may, for example, be
25   determined from at least one of:
     (a)      an Internet Protocol (IP) address of a computing device from which the customer
     may have performed an online search,
                                               1

 WO 2015/029077                                                                 PCT/IN2014/000573
     (b)       a Global Positioning System (GPS) sensor of a smart phone from which the
     customer may have performed the online search, and/or
     (c)       a name of a place provided by the customer in a'search query itself.
     Furthermore, in an attempt to search for retail stores of the particular brand in a particular
  5  geographical location, such as a city or a region in the city, the customer may use a search
     query that includes a name of that particular geographical location, for example, such as
     "Nokia Lumia in Hyderabad". Today, search results of such location-based search queries
     typically provide links to:
     (a)       websites of online stores, such as Flipkart, and/or
10   (b)       websites of online classifieds, such as OLX and Quikr.
     However, these search results do not provide information about retail stores of the
     particular brand. Therefore, in order to search for retail stores of that particular brand, the
     customer has to specifically use a search query that includes a name of the particular brand
     and the term "store", for example, such as "Nokia stores". Today, search results to such
15   search queries typically provide links to:
     (a)       a "store locator"webpage provided by a website of the particular brand, and/or
     (b)       webpages that show the retail stores on maps.
     However, such "store locator" webpages of brands often provide only contact details of
     retail stores, for example, including addresses and phone numbers of the retail stores. The
20   "store locator" webpages do not provide any information about products and/or offers that
     are available in these retail stores.
     In light of the foregoing discussion, there exists a need for a system for improving visibility
    of one or more webpages of one or more retail stores in online searches.
     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25  The present invention seeks to provide a system for improving visibility of one or more
    webpages of one or more retail stores in online searches.
    The present invention also seeks to provide a method of operating the system for improving
    the visibility of the webpages of the retail stores in the online searches.
                                                 2

 WO 2015/029077                                                                 PCT/IN2014/000573
     In one aspect, embodiments of the present invention provide a system for improving
     visibility of one or more webpages of one or more retail stores in online searches. The
     system includes one or more client devices associated with the retail stores, and a data
     processing arrangement coupled in communication with the client devices.
 5   Users use the client devices to provide the data processing arrangement with inputs for
     creating and/or updating the webpages of the retail stores. These inputs may be provided in
     a form of one or more messages that may, for example, include information pertaining to
     content to be displayed on the webpages. Upon receiving the inputs, the data processing
     arrangement creates and/or updates the webpages of the retail stores.
10   A given user responsible for creating and/or updating a given webpage of a given retail
     store uses a given client device to send one or more store-specific messages to the data
     processing arrangement. The store-specific messages may, for example,                     include
     information pertaining to at least one of: a name of the -given retail store, a geographical
     location of the given retail store, an address of the given retail store, a phone number of the
15   given retail store, an email address of the given retail store, timings of the given retail store,
     one or more businesses of the given retail store, one or more user-specified keywords for
     the given webpage, one or more photographs of the given retail store, directions within a
     map, one or more products offered by the given retail store, prices of one or more products,
     one or more deals provided by the given retail store, a marketing campaign occurring in the
20   given retail store, a discount campaign occurring in the given retail store, one or more
     status updates, and/or one or more tips that may be of interest to visitors.
     Upon receiving the store-specific messages, the data processing arrangement is operable to
     process the store-specific messages to create and/or update the given webpage of the given
     retail store. Beneficially, the given webpage may be created and/or updated on a real-time
25   basis. In this manner, the data processing arrangement is operable to create and/or update
    the given webpage in a dynamic manner.
    Additionally, the data processing arrangement is operable to parse the store-specific
    messages to extract one or more keywords. Beneficially, the store-specific messages may
    be parsed semantically.
30  Thereafter, the data processing arrangement is operable to provide the keywords in the
    given webpage of the given retail store. For example, the keywords may be provided in
                                                3

 WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
     content and/or metadata of the given webpage of the given retail store. This enables
     keyword-based searching of the given webpage of the given retail store in the online
     searches, and in turn, improves visibility of the given webpage in the online searches.
     Beneficially, at least one of the keywords may pertain to a geographical location of the
 5   given retail store. This may enable location-based searching of the given webpage of the
     given retail store in the online searches. This may further improve the visibility of the given
     webpage in the online searches.
     Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to classify the store-specific
     messages into a plurality of classifications depending on similarities between the keywords
10   and/or time periods between which the store-specific messages were received by the data
     processing arrangement.
     Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to update one or more existing
     features of the given webpage and/or add one or more new features to the given webpage,
     based on most recent store-specific messages.
15   Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to send one or more
     notifications to the given client device about recent visits made to the given webpage.
     Moreover, the system may also include a managerial client device coupled in
     communication with the data processing arrangement. The data processing arrangement
     may be operable to receive from the managerial client device one or more messages
20   mutually pertaining to some or all of the retail stores. The data processing arrangement
     may then be operable to analyze these messages to update one or more webpages
     corresponding to these retail stores.
     Furthermore, the data processing arrangement may be operable to gather information
     pertaining to at least one of:
25   (a)      products searched for in the online searches, and/or
     (b)      geographical locations of visitors who performed the online searches to visit one or
     more webpages corresponding to the retail stores.
     Subsequently, the data processing arrangement may be operable to analyze the gathered
     information to determine at least one of:
                                                4

 WO 2015/029077                                                            PCT/IN2014/000573
     (a)      one or more products that have a high demand in a given geographical location,
     and/or
     (b)      one or more geographical locations where there is a high demand for a given
     product.
  5  In this manner, the data processing arrangement may be operable to correlate inventories of
     the retail stores with location-based demands of the online searches.
     In another aspect, embodiments of the present invention provide a method of operating the
     system for improving the visibility of the webpages of the retail stores in the online
     searches.
 10  In yet another aspect, embodiments of the present invention provide a software product
     recorded on non-transitory machine-readable data storage media, wherein the software
     product is executable upon computing hardware for implementing the method of operating
     the system for improving the visibility of the webpages of the retail stores in the online
     searches.
15   Embodiments of the present invention substantially eliminate the aforementioned problems
     in the prior art, and enable users to create and/or update webpages of their respective retail
     stores easily, and to provide latest information on the webpages in real time, thereby
     improving visibility of the webpages in online searches; help visitors find information that
     is relevant to their online searches; enable store managers to manage inventories of their
20   respective retail stores depending on location-based demands of the online searches; and/or
     enable brand managers to identify one or more geographical locations where businesses of
     their brands are likely to be profitable.
     Additional aspects, advantages, features and objects of the present invention would be
     made apparent from the drawings and the detailed description of the illustrative
25   embodiments construed in conjunction with the appended claims that follow.
     It will be appreciated that features of the present invention are susceptible to being
     combined in various combinations without departing from the scope of the present
     invention as defined by the appended claims.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                               5

 WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
     The summary above, as well as the following detailed description of illustrative
     embodiments, is better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings.
     For the purpose of illustrating the present invention, exemplary constructions of the
     disclosure are shown in the drawings. However, the present invention is not limited to
 5   specific methods and instrumentalities disclosed herein. Moreover, those in the art will
     understand that the drawings are not to scale. Wherever possible, like elements have been
     indicated by identical numbers.
     Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only,
     with reference to the following diagrams wherein:
10            Fig. I is a schematic illustration of a system for improving visibility of one or more
     webpages of one or more retail stores in online searches, in accordance with an
     embodiment of the present invention;
              Fig. 2 is a schematic illustration of various components in an example
     implementation of a data processing arrangement, in accordance with an embodiment- of
15   the present invention; and
              Fig. 3 is an illustration of steps of a method of operating the system for improving
     the visibility of the webpages of the retail stores in the online searches, in accordance with
     an embodiment of the present invention.
     In the accompanying drawings, an underlined number is employed to represent an item
20   over which the underlined number is positioned or an item to which the underlined number
     is adjacent. A non-underlined number relates to an item identified by a line linking the non
     underlined number to the item. When a number is non-underlined and accompanied by an
     associated arrow, the non-underlined number is used to identify a-general item at which the
     arrow is pointing.
25   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
     The following detailed description illustrates embodiments of the present invention and
     ways in which it can be implemented. Although the best mode of carrying out the present
     invention has been disclosed, those in the art would recognize that other embodiments for
     carrying out or practicing the present invention are also possible.
                                                 6

 WO 2015/029077                                                                PCT/IN2014/000573
      Embodiments of the present invention provide a system for improving visibility of one or
      more webpages of one or more retail stores in online searches. The system includes one or
      more client devices associated with the retail stores, and a data processing arrangement
      coupled in communication with the client devices.
  5   Users use. the client devices to provide the data processing arrangement with inputs for
      creating and/or updating the webpages of the retail stores. These inputs may be provided in
      a form of one or more messages that may, for example, include information pertaining to
     -content to be displayed on the webpages. Upon receiving the inputs, the data processing
      arrangement creates and/or updates the webpages of the retail stores.
10    For illustration purposes only, let us consider an example scenario in which a given user is
      responsible for creating and/or updating a given webpage of a given retail store. The given
      user uses a given client device associated with the given retail store to send one or more
      store-specific messages to the data processing arrangement.
      The term "store-specific messages" may refer to one or more messages specific to the
15    given retail store. For example, the store-specific messages may include information
      pertaining to at least one of: a name of the given retail store, a geographical location of the
      given retail store, an address of the given retail store, a phone number of the given retail
      store, an email address of the given retail store, timings of the given retail store, one or
      more businesses of the given, retail store, one or more user-specified keywords for the
20   -given webpage, one or more photographs of the given retail store, directions within a map,
      one or more products offered by the given retail store, prices of one or more products, one
      or more deals provided by the given retail store, a marketing -campaign occurring in the
      given retail store, a discount campaign occurring in the given retail store, one or more
      status updates, and/or one or more tips that may be of interest to visitors.
25    The term "product" may refer to various products and services provided by various retail
      stores, while the term "retailstore" may refer to retail stores, service stores, and the like,
     throughout the present disclosure.
      Upon receiving the store-specific messages, the data processing arrangement is operable to
      process the store-specific messages to create and/or update the given webpage of the given
30    retail store. Beneficially, the given webpage may be created and/or updated on a real-time
                                                7

  WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
       basis. In this manner, the data processing arrangement is operable to create and/or update
       the given webpage in a dynamic manner.
       Additionally, the data processing arrangement is operable to parse the store-specific
       messages to extract one or more keywords. Beneficially, the store-specific messages may
  5    be parsed semantically.
       Thereafter, the data processing arrangement is operable to provide the keywords in the
       given webpage of the given retail store. For example, the keywords may be provided in
       content and/or metadata of the given webpage of the given retail store. This enables
       keyword-based searching of the given webpage of the given retail -store in the online
 10    searches, and in turn, improves visibility of the given webpage in the online searches.
       Beneficially, at least one of the keywords may pertain to a geographical location of the
      given retail store. This may enable location-based -searching of the given webpage of the
      given retail store in the online searches. This may further improve the visibility of the given
      webpage in the online searches.
 15   Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to classify the store-specific
      messages into a plurality of classifications depending on similarities between the keywords
      and/or time periods between which the store-specific messages were received by the data
      processing arrangement.
      Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to update one or more existing
20    features of the given webpage and/or add one or more new features to the given webpage,
      based on most recent store-specific messages.
      Moreover, the data processing arrangement may be operable to send one or more
      notifications to the given client device about recent visits made to the given webpage.
      Moreover, the system may also include a managerial client device coupled in
25    communication with the data processing arrangement. The data processing arrangement
      may be operable to receive from the managerial client device one or more messages
      mutually pertaining to some or all of the retail stores. The data processing arrangement
      may then be operable to analyze these messages to update one or -more webpages
      corresponding to these retail stores.
                                                 8

  WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
      Furthermore, the data processing -arrangement may be operable to gather information
      pertaining to at least one of:
      (a)       products searched for in the online searches, and/or
      (b)       geographical locations of visitors who performed the online searches to visit one or
  5   more webpages corresponding to the retail stores.
      Subsequently, the data processing arrangement may be operable to analyze the gathered
      information to determine    at least one of:
      (a)       one or more products that have a high demand in a given geographical location,
      and/or
 10   (b)       one or more geographical locations where there is a high demand for a given
      product.
      In this manner, the data processing arrangement may be operable to correlate inventories of
      the retail stores with location-based demands of the online searches.
      It should be noted that the term "webpage" may refer to typical Internet-based webpages
 15   and websites as well as mobile-based webpages and websites, throughout the present
      disclosure.
      Referring now to the drawings, particularly by their reference numbers, Fig. I is a
      schematic illustration of a system 100 for improving visibility of one or more webpages of
      one or more retail stores in online searches, in accordance with an embodiment of the
20    present invention. The system 100 includes one or more client devices associated with the
      retail stores, depicted as a client device 102a, a client device 102b and a client device 102c
      in Fig. 1 (hereinafter collectively referred to as client devices 102). The system 100 also
      includes a data processing arrangement 104, a communication network 106, and one or
      more databases, depicted as a database 108. Optionally, the system 100 may also include
25    one or more managerial client devices, depicted as a managerial client device 110.
      The system 100 may be implemented in various ways, depending on various possible
      scenarios. In one example scenario, the system 100 may be implemented by way of a
      spatially collocated arrangement of the data processing arrangement 104 and the database
      108. In another example scenario, the system 100 may be implemented by way of a
30    spatially distributed arrangement of the data processing arrangement 104 and the database
      108 coupled mutually in communication via the communication network 106. In yet
                                                  9

 WO 2015/029077                                                             PCT/IN2014/000573
     another example scenario, the data processing arrangement 104 and the database 108 may
     be implemented via cloud computing services.
     The data processing arrangement 104 may, for example, be implemented by way of one or
     more servers between which various functionalities of the data processing arrangement 104
 5   may be distributed.
     The data processing arrangement 104 is coupled in -communication with the client devices
     102 and the managerial client device 110 via the communication network 106. The
     communication network 106 can be a collection of individual networks, interconnected
     with each other and functioning as a single large network. Examples of such individual
10   networks include, but are not limited to, Local Area Networks (LANs), Wide Area
     Networks (WANs), telephone networks and the Internet. Further, the communication
     network 106 may be wireless, wired, or a combination thereof.
     Examples of the client devices 102 and the managerial client device 110 include, but are
     not limited to, mobile phones, smart telephones, Mobile Internet Devices (MIDs), tablet
15   computers, Ultra-Mobile Personal Computers (UMPCs), phablet computers, Personal
     Digital Assistants (PDAs), web pads, Personal Computers (PCs), Handheld PCs, and laptop
     computers.
     Users use the client devices 102 to provide the data processing arrangement 104 with
     inputs for creating and/or updating the webpages of the retail stores. These inputs may be
20   provided in a form of one or more messages that may, for example, include information
     pertaining to content to be displayed on these webpages. Upon receiving the inputs, the
     data processing arrangement 104 creates and/or updates the webpages of the retail stores.
     For illustration purposes only, let us consider an example scenario in which a given user is
     responsible for providing inputs for creating and/or updating a given webpage of a given
25   retail store, and the client device 102a is associated with the given retail store. The given
     user may, for example, be a store manager of the given retail store. Let us also consider, for
     example, that the given user uses the client device 102a to send one or more store-specific
     messages to the data processing arrangement 104.
     For example, the store-specific messages may include information pertaining to at least one
30   of: a name of the given retail store, a geographical location of the given retail store, an
                                               10

 WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
     address of the given retail store, a phone number of the given retail store, an email address
     of the given retail store, timings of the given retail store, one or more businesses of the
     given retail store, one or more user-specified keywords for the given webpage, one or more
     photographs of the given retail store, directions within a map, one or more products offered
 5   by the given retail store, prices of one or more products, one or more deals provided by the
     given retail store, a marketing campaign occurring in the given retail store, a discount
     campaign occurring in the given retail store, one or more status updates, and/or one or
     more tips that may be of interest to visitors.
     The -store-specific messages may, for example, be sent in a form of at least one of: Short
10   Messaging Service (SMS) messages, Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) messages,
     Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS) messages, eXtended Messaging Service (XMS)
     messages, or electronic mails (emails). Accordingly, the store-specific messages may be
     sent in the form of a text, an image, an audio clip and/or a video clip.
     For example, in a case where the client device 102a is a mobile phone, the given user may
15.  send the store-specific messages in the form of SMS messages. In such a case, the data
     processing arrangement 104 may gather information pertaining to the given webpage, for
     example, by sending and receiving interactive SMS messages to and from the client device
     102a.
     Upon receiving the store-specific messages, the data processing arrangement 104 is
20   operable to process the store-specific messages to create and/or update the given webpage
     of the given retail store. For this purpose, the data processing arrangement 104 may be
     operable to extract information pertaining to content to be displayed on the given webpage
     from these store-specific messages, and provide the extracted information in the given
     webpage of the given retail store.
25   Optionally, in the given webpage, some or all of the store-specific messages may be
     provided with associated timestamps indicative of a time when the given user sent these
     store-specific messages. Beneficially, such timestamps may be provided with one or more
     of the store-specific messages pertaining to at least one of: one or more deals provided by
     the given retail store, a marketing campaign occurring in the given retail store, and/or a
30   discount campaign occurring in the given retail store. This may help visitors find latest
     information provided on the given webpage.
                                               11

 WO 2015/029077                                                             PCT/IN2014/000573
      Accordingly, the data processing arrangement 104 is operable to create and/or update the
      given webpage dynamically, as and when new store-specific messages are received by the
      data processing arrangement 104. Beneficially, the given webpage may be created .and/or
      updated on a real-time basis. Alternatively, the given webpage may be created and/or
  5   updated on a periodic basis.
      Additionally, the data processing arrangement 104 is operable to parse the store-specific
      messages to extract one or more keywords pertaining to the given webpage. Beneficially,
      the store-specific messages may be parsed-semantically.
      Thereafter, the data processing arrangement 104 is operable to provide the keywords in the
 10   given webpage of the given retail store. For example, the keywords may be provided in
      content and/or metadata of the given webpage of the given retail store. This may help
      structure the content and/or the metadata of the given webpage in a relevant manner, so that
      web crawlers used by online search engines may be able to find the given webpage. This
      enables keyword-based searching of the given webpage in the online searches, and in turn,:
 15   improves visibility of the given webpage in the online searches. This may also help visitors
      find information that is relevant to their online searches.
      Moreover, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to identify the
     geographical location of the given retail store. In accordance with an embodiment of the
     present invention, the geographical location of the given retail store may be identified
20   based on at least one of the keywords extracted from the store-specific messages.
     In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, the geographical location
     of the client device 102a may be considered as the geographical location of the given retail
     store. The geographical location of the client device 102a may, for example, be determined
     from information pertaining to an Internet Service Provider (ISP) or a Telecommunications
25   Service Provider (TSP) of the client device 102a. In one example, the geographical
     location of the client device 102a may be determined from an Internet Protocol (IP) address
     of the client device 102a. In another example, the geographical location of the client device
     102a may be provided by a Global Positioning System (GPS) sensor of the client device
     102a.
30   Beneficially, information pertaining to the geographical location of the given retail store
     may be provided in the given webpage of the given retail store. Such information may, for
                                                12

 WO 2015/029077                                                             PCT/IN2014/000573
     example,     include geographic coordinates, such as latitude and longitude, of the
     geographical location of the given retail store. This may enable location-based searching of
     the given webpage of the given retail store in the online searches. This may further improve
     the visibility of the given webpage in the online -searches.
 5   Additionally, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to store the store
     specific messages in the database 108. Beneficially, the store-specific messages may be
     stored with associated timestamps. The data processing arrangement 104 may also be
     operable to store the keywords along with the store-specific messages in the database 108.
     Moreover, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to classify the store
10   specific messages into a plurality of classifications depending on similarities between the
     keywords and/or time periods between which the store-specific messages were received by
     the data processing arrangement 104. Information pertaining to the classifications of the
     store-specific messages may be stored in the database 108, and may be accessed from the
     database 108, as and when required. For example, when a visitor of the given webpage
15   chooses to view store-specific messages pertaining to a particular classification, the data
     processing arrangement 104 may access the information pertaining to the classifications to
     display one or more store-specific messages classified into that particular classification.
     Moreover, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to analyze keywords
     extracted from most recent store-specific messages to identify an entity to which the most
20   recent store-specific messages pertain. The most recent store-specific messages may, for
     example, include a plurality of store-specific messages received from the client device
     102a within a predefined time period. The predefined time period may be 'either user
     defined or system-defined by default.
     Subsequently, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to select a category
25   related to the entity from a plurality of predefined categories. The predefined categories
     may be either user-defined or system-defined by default.
     The data processing arrangement 104 may then be operable to update one or more existing
     features of the given webpage and/or add one or more new features to the given webpage,
     based upon the selected category.
                                              13

 WO 2015/029077                                                                PCT/IN2014/000573
      Let us consider, for example, that most recent store-specific messages sent by a store
      manager of a particular retail store have been identified to be related to "food", "home
      delivery" and/or "take away". Accordingly, the data processing arrangement 104 may
      identify that particular retail store as a restaurant, and select a suitable category from
 5    amongst the predefined categories.
      The data processing arrangement 104 may then update one or more existing features of a
      respective webpage of that particular retail store. For example, a background image of the
      webpage may be updated, so as to correspond to a theme of the restaurant. This may
      improve visible appearance of the webpage, and highlight the category to which the entity
10    may belong. In addition, the store manager does not have to wait for reviews from third
      parties to let visitors learn about the category to which the entity may belong.
      Additionally, the data processing arrangement 104 may add one or more new features to
     the webpage. For example, a "Reserve a table" feature may be added to the webpage, so as
     to allow the visitors to reserve a table at the restaurant.
15    In this manner, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to update the existing
     features and/or add the new features dynamically and automatically, based on the most
     recent store-specific messages. This may be particularly useful for retail stores whose
     business may change with time.
     Furthermore, a managerial user may be responsible for providing inputs for updating some
20   or all of the webpages of the retail stores. The managerial user may, for example, be a
     regional manager of a brand with which the retail stores may be associated, or a brand
     manager of the brand. Let us consider, for example, that the managerial user uses the
     managerial client device 110 to send one or more messages to the data processing
     arrangement 104. These messages may, for example, mutually pertain to some or all of the
25   retail stores.
     The data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to receive the messages, and may
     then be operable to analyze these messages to update one or more webpages corresponding
     to these retail stores, as described earlier.
     Optionally, the system 100 may be operable to integrate webpages of retail stores
30   associated with a particular brand with an existing website of that particular brand.
                                                  14

 WO 2015/029077                                                                PCT/IN2014/000573
       Additionally or alternatively, these webpages may be linked with the existing website of
       that particular brand via one or more plug-ins that may be provided on the existing website
       of that particular brand. For example, clicking on a plug-in provided on the existing
       website of that particular brand may open a webpage displaying latest information that may
  5    be of interest to visitors.
       Moreover, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to identify a current
       geographical location of a visitor visiting one of the webpages of the retail stores associated
       with the particular brand, and suggest at least one of the retail stores that is in a proximity
       of the current geographical location of the visitor.
 10    Moreover, when a visitor-visits a particular webpage, the data processing arrangement 104
      may be operable to identify one or more search parameters associated with the visitor. The
      search parameters may, for example, include at least one of: a search query from whose
      search results the visitor landed on that particular webpage, a search engine on which the
      visitor performed an online search using the search query, a geographical location of the
 15   visitor, and/or a geographical location of interest to the visitor.
      It may be noted here that the geographical location of the visitor may not always be the
      geographical location of interest to the visitor. The geographical location of the visitor may
      be determined from an IP address of a computing device from which the visitor performed
      the online search and/or by a GPS sensor of the computing device, while the geographical
20    location of interest to the visitor may be identified from a name of a place provided in the
      search query itself. For example, a visitor residing in Delhi may be interested in searching
      for handicraft items in Hyderabad, and may have used "handicraft in Hyderabad" as a
     search query.
     The data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to analyze the search parameters to
25   determine products in which the visitor was interested. The data processing arrangement
     104 may then be operable to send one or more notifications to a store manager of a retail
     store associated with that particular webpage. The notifications may, for example, be sent
     to a client device of the store manager.
     Beneficially, the notifications may be sent on a real-time basis. Consequently, the system
30   100 may be operable to notify the store manager about recent visits made to the particular
     webpage.
                                                 15

 WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
     Optionally, the system 100 may be operable to recommend the store manager to update the
     particular webpage with additional information about the products in which the visitor was
      interested. For this purpose, the store manager may send one or more store-specific
     messages pertaining to the products from his/her client device to the data processing
 5   arrangement 104. In this way, the system 100 enables the store manager to keep the
     particular webpage up-to-date.
     Additionally, the data processing arrangement 104 may be provided with information
     pertaining to inventories of the retail stores, for example, during creating and/or updating
     of the webpages of the retail stores. The information pertaining to the inventories of the
10   retail stores may be stored in the database 108.
     Furthermore, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to access search logs
     maintained by one or more servers (not shown in Fig. 1) of one or more online search
     engines, such as Google (Google is a registered trademark). An example entry in such
     search logs may, for example, include information pertaining to at least one of: a search
15   query used by a visitor to perform a particular online search, a -search result (i.e., a
     webpage) of that particular online search selected by the visitor, a geographical location of
     the visitor, and/or a geographical location of interest to the visitor. As described earlier, the
     geographical location of the visitor may, for example, have been determined from an IP
     address of a computing device from which the visitor performed the particular online
20   search and/or by a GPS sensor of the computing device.
     The data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to analyze the search logs to gather
     information pertaining to at least one of:
     (a)       one or more products searched for in the online searches, and/or
     (b)       geographical locations of one or more visitors who performed the online searches
25   to visit one or more of the webpages corresponding to the retail stores.
     For example, a product searched for in the particular online search may be identified from a
     name of the product provided in the search query itself. In some cases, a geographical
     location of interest to the visitor may be identified from a name of a place provided in the
     search query itself.
30   Thereafter, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to analyze the gathered
     information to determine one or more products that have a high demand in one or more
                                              16

 WO 2015/029077                                                                  PCT/IN2014/000573
     .eographical     locations or a geographical region encompassing these geographical
      locations. Accordingly, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to correlate
      the inventories of the retail stores with location-based demands of the online searches.
      The system 100 may then be operable to provide results of such analyses and/or
  5   correlations to store managers of the retail stores. These results may be indicative of trends
      and patterns in demands of the visitors. Beneficially, the results may be provided in a form
      of one or more reports, which may be sent periodically to the store managers.
      In this manner, the system 100 enables the store managers to manage the inventories of
     their respective retail stores depending on the location-based demands of the online
 10   searches. For example, a store manager of a retail store in a particular geographical location
      may check whether or not a particular product that has a high demand in that particular
      geographical location is available in an inventory of the retail store. Accordingly, the store
      manager may manage the inventory of the retail store, such that the particular product may
      be made available in the inventory to meet a location-based demand of that particular
15    product.
     Additionally, the store manager may send one or more store-specific messages pertaining
     to upcoming and/or ongoing deals and/or discounts on the particular product available in
     the retail store, from his/her client device to the data processing arrangement 104. The data
     processing arrangement 104 may then update a respective webpage of the retail store with
20   the store-specific messages sent by the store manager. In this manner, the system 100
     assists the store manager in updating the webpage, thereby providing information about the
     upcoming and/or ongoing deals and/or discounts available in the retail store. This may
     consequently attract visitors interested in purchasing that particular product to the webpage
     of the retail store. This may also help the visitors to relate directly to the retail store.
25   Moreover, the data processing arrangement 104 may be operable to analyze the gathered
     information to determine one or more geographical locations where there is a high demand
     for a given product. In this manner, the system 100 enables brand managers to identify one
     or more geographical locations where businesses of their brands are likely to be profitable.
     For example, a brand manager may consider a particular geographical location for
30   expanding a business of his/her brand by opening new retail stores in that particular
     geographical location.
                                                17

 WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
      It should be- noted here that the implementation of the system 100 is not limited to a
      specific number of client devices, managerial client devices, data processing arrangements,
     communication networks, and databases. Fig. 1 is merely an example, which should not
      unduly limit the scope of the claims herein. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize
 5   many variations, alternatives, and modifications of embodiments herein.
      Fig. 2 is a schematic illustration of various components in an example implementation of
     the data processing arrangement 104, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
      invention. The data processing arrangement 104 includes, but is not limited -to, a memory
     202, a processor 204, Input/Output (I/O) devices 206, and a system bus 208 that
10   operatively couples various components including the memory 202 and the processor 204.
     The memory 202 stores a parsing module 210 and a locating module 212. Optionally, the
     memory 202 may store an inventory-correlating module 214.
     When executed on the processor 204, the parsing module 210 is operable to parse store
     specific messages received from the client devices 102, to extract keywords pertaining to
15   respective webpages of the retail stores. The keywords so extracted may then be provided
     in the respective webpages of the retail stores, as described earlier. This enables keyword
     based searching of these webpages in the online searches, and in turn, improves visibility
     of these webpages in the online searches.
     Beneficially, the parsing module 210 may be operable to parse the store-specific messages
20   semantically, thereby enabling semantic search of the webpages.
     When executed on the processor 204, the locating module 212 is operable to identify
     geographical locations of the retail stores. In accordance with an embodiment of the present
     invention, the geographical locations of the retail stores may be identified based on at least
     one of the keywords extracted from the store-specific messages.
25   In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, the geographical
     locations of the client devices 102 may be considered as the geographical locations of the
     retail stores with which these client devices 102 are associated. The geographical locations
     of the client devices 102 may, for example, be determined from information pertaining to
     ISPs or TSPs of the client devices 102, as described-earlier. In one example, a geographical
30   location of a particular client device may be determined from an IP address of that
                                               18

 WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
      particular client device. In another example, the geographical location of the particular
      client device may be provided by a GPS sensor of that particular client device.
      Beneficially, information pertaining to the -geographical locations of the retail stores may
      be provided in the respective webpages of these retail stores, as described earlier. This may
  5   enable location-based searching of these webpages in the online searches. This may further
      improve the visibility of these webpages in the online searches.
      When executed on the processor 204, the inventory-correlating module 214 is operable to
     access the search logs maintained by the online search engines. The inventory-correlating
     module 214 is operable to analyze the search logs to gather information pertaining to at
 10   least one of:
     (a)       one or more products searched for in the online searches, and/or
     (b)       geographical locations of one or more visitors who performed the online searches
     to visit one or more of the webpages corresponding to the retail stores.
     Thereafter, the -inventory-correlating module 214 is operable to analyze the gathered
 15  information to determine one or more products that have a high demand in the geographical
     locations of the retail stores. Accordingly, the inventory-correlating module 214 is operable
     to correlate the inventories of the retail stores with location-based demands of the online
     searches, as described earlier.
     In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, the data processing
20   arrangement 104 is implemented spatially within one or more servers. Beneficially, the
     data processing arrangement 104 may be implemented via computing hardware that is
     operable to execute one or more software products recorded on non-transitory machine
     readable data storage media.
     Fig. 2 is merely an example, which should not unduly limit the scope of the claims herein.
-25  It is to be understood that the specific designation for the data processing arrangement 104
     is for the convenience of reader and is not to be construed as limiting the data processing
     arrangement 104 to specific numbers, types, or arrangements of modules and/or
     components of the data processing arrangement 104. One of ordinary skill in the art would
     recognize many variations, alternatives, and modifications of embodiments of the present
30   invention.
                                               19

 WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
     Fig. 3 is an illustration of steps of a method of operating the system 100, in accordance
     with an embodiment of the present invention. The method is depicted as a collection of
     steps in a logical flow diagram, which represents a sequence of steps that can be
     implemented in hardware, software, or a combination thereof.
  -5 At a step 302, store-specific messages are received from the client devices 102 associated
     with the retail stores, as described earlier.
     Next, at a step 304, the store-specific messages received at the step 302 are parsed to
     extract keywords pertaining to respective webpages of the retail stores. The step 304 may,
     for example, be performed using semantic parsing.
 10  Subsequently, at a step 306, the store-specific messages are processed to create and/or
     update the respective webpages of the retail stores. In accordance with the step 306,
     information pertaining to the content to be displayed on the webpages is extracted from the
     store-specific messages.
     Moreover, the keywords extracted at the step 304 are provided in the respective webpages
15   of the retail stores. For example, the keywords may be provided in content and/or metadata
     of these webpages. This enables keyword-based searching of the webpages of the retail
     stores in the online searches, and in turn, improves visibility of these webpages in the
     online searches.
     The step 306 may be performed either on a real-time basis or on a periodic basis.
20   When new store-specific messages are sent from the client devices 102, the steps 302, 304
     and 306 are repeated. In this manner, the webpages are created and/or updated
     dynamically, as and when required.
     Additionally, the method may include a step at which the geographical locations of the
     retail stores may be identified, as described earlier. Beneficially, information pertaining to
25   the geographical locations of the retail stores may be provided in the respective webpages
     of the retail stores. This may enable location-based searching of these webpages in the
     online searches, and may further improve the visibility of these webpages in the online
     searches.
                                               20

 WO 2015/029077                                                              PCT/IN2014/000573
      Furthermore, at a step 308, the search logs of the online -search engines are analyzed to
      gather information pertaining to at least one of:
      (a)      one or more products searched for in the online' searches, and/or
      (b)      geographical locations of one or more visitors who performed the online searches
 '5  to visit one or more of the webpages corresponding to the retail stores.
      Subsequently, at a step 310, the information gathered at the step 308 is analyzed to
     determine one or more products that have a high demand in the geographical locations of
     the retail stores.
     Thereafter, at a step 312, the inventories of the retail -stores are -correlated with location
10   based demands of the online searches. This enables -store managers to manage the
      inventories of their respective retail stores depending on the location-based demands, as
     described earlier.
     It should be noted here that the steps 302 to 312 are only illustrative and other alternatives
     can also be provided where one or more steps are added, one or more steps are removed, or
15   one or more steps are provided in a different-sequence without departing from the scope of
     the claims herein.
     Embodiments of the present invention can be used for various purposes, including, though
     not limited to, enabling users to create and/or update webpages of their respective retail
     stores to provide latest information on the webpages in real time, thereby improving
20   visibility of the webpages in online searches; helping visitors find information that is
     relevant to their online searches; enabling store managers to manage inventories of their
     respective retail stores depending on location-based demands of the online searches; and/or
     enabling brand managers to identify one or more geographical locations where businesses
     of their brands are likely to be profitable.
25   Modifications to embodiments of the present invention described in the foregoing are
     possible without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the
     accompanying claims. Expressions such as "including", "comprising", "incorporating",
     "consisting of', "have", "is" used to describe and claim the present invention are intended
     to be construed in a non-exclusive manner, namely allowing for items, components or
30   elements not explicitly described also to be present. Reference to the singular is also to be
     construed to relate to the plural.
                                                21

 WO 2015/029077                                                             PCT/IN2014/000573
      Claims:
      What is claimed is:
      1.       A system for improving visibility of one or more webpages of one or more retail
      stores in online searches, the system comprising one or more client devices associated with
 5   the one or more retail stores, and a data processing arrangement coupled in communication
     with the one or more client devices, wherein
               the data processing arrangement is operable to receive one or more -store-specific
     messages from a given client device from amongst the one or more client devices
     associated with a given retail store from amongst the one or more retail stores, wherefrom
10   the data processing arrangement is operable to process the one or more store-specific
     messages to create and/or update a given webpage of the given retail store,
               further wherein the data processing arrangement is operable to parse the one or
     more store-specific messages to extract one or more keywords, and is operable to provide
     the one or more keywords in the given webpage, thereby enabling keyword-based
15   searching of the given webpage of the given retail store in the online searches.
     2.        The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more
     keywords pertains to a geographical location of the given retail store, thereby enabling
     location-based searching of the given webpage of the given retail store in the online
     searches.
20   3.        The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data processing arrangement is
     operable to classify the one or more store-specific messages into a plurality of
     classifications depending on similarities between the one or more keywords and/or time
     periods between which the one or more store-specific messages were received.
     4.       The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data processing arrangement is
25   operable to update one or more existing features of the given webpage and/or add one or
     more new features to the given webpage, based on most recent store-specific messages.
     5.       The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data processing arrangement is
     operable to send one or more notifications to the given client device about recent visits
     made to the given webpage.
                                              22

 WO 2015/029077                                                               PCT/IN2014/000573
     6.       The system as-claimed in claim 1, wherein the given webpage is created and/or
     updated on a real-time basis.
     7.       The system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a managerial client device
     coupled in communication with the data processing arrangement, wherein the data
 5   processing arrangement is operable to receive from the managerial client device one or
     more messages mutually pertaining to the one or more retail stores, wherefrom the data
     processing arrangement is operable to analyze the one or more messages to update the one
     or more webpages corresponding to the one or more retail stores.
     8.       The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data processing arrangement is
10   operable to gather information pertaining to at least one of: products searched for in the
     online searches, and/or geographical locations of visitors who performed the online
     searches to visit the one'or more webpages corresponding to the one or more retail stores.
     9.       The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the data processing arrangement is
     further operable to analyze the gathered information to determine at least one of: one or
15   more products that have a high demand in a given geographical location and/or one or
     more geographical locations where there is a high demand for a given product.
     10.      The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the data processing arrangement is
     further operable to correlate inventories of the one or more retail stores with location-based
     demands of the online searches.
                                              23

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014313720, is current as of 2018-03-26 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014313720, is current as of 2018-03-26 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014313720, is current as of 2018-03-26 21:00 AEST

