                                           ABSTRACT
          Devices and methods for allowing for improved assisted ventilation of a patient. The
methods and devices provide a number of benefits over conventional approaches for assisted
ventilation. For example, the methods and devices described herein permit blind insertion of a
device that can allow ventilation regardless of whether the device is positioned within a trachea
or an esophagus.

       3/18
NtN
    IZ

       APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR IMPROVED ASSISTED VENTILATION
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[00011    This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2012347786, which is a national phase application of PCT Application No. PCT/
US2012/068169, filed 6 December 2012, that claims priority to US Provisional Application No.
61/569,169, filed 9 December 2011, the contents of each of which applications are incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    Intubation is the placement of a tube of an intubation device into an airway lumen of
the body of a patient to provide assisted ventilation of the lungs to maintain a supply of oxygen
to the blood in those cases where the patient is unable to breathe on his or her own. Intubation in
cases of respiratory distress involves the placement of a tube into the trachea of the patient.
Tracheal intubation also involves the positioning of an endotracheal tube into a patient's trachea
through the vocal cords, so the caregiver must also be careful to avoid injuring the vocal cords.
In many cases, care must be taken when intubating a patient since improper placement of the
tube can result in additional harm to the patient. For example, many conventional intubation
devices rely on an inflatable cuff that forms a seal against the lumen wall to maintain a position
of the tube within the lumen. Over-inflation of the cuff, can cause internal bleeding in the
patient. Another significant problem is that extreme care must be taken to avoid positioning the
intubation tube within the esophagus rather than the trachea. In such cases, with conventional
devices, the first responder or medical practitioner cannot properly ventilate the patient and the
patient can suffer further injury.
[0003]    Even properly trained medical caregivers and first responders must proceed with
caution during intubation to avoid misplacement of the intubation device or to avoid unwanted
insertion errors and risk of injury. Delay and/or misplacement of the endotracheal tube, such as
misplacement of the endotracheal tube into the esophagus, can potentially result in neurological
damage or death. Improper positioning of the endotracheal tube also can compromise airway
protection or result in inadequate ventilation. It is therefore imperative to intubate a patient
quickly and position the endotracheal tube correctly when a medical condition arises.
                                                   1

[0004]      To reduce the risk of complications during intubation, the caregiver, whether a
first responder, such as an emergency medical technician, paramedic, or a nurse or
physician must proceed as quickly as possible yet with caution to avoid the potential
complications. In addition, a first responder must often attempt to intubate the patient in
a less than desirable location such as a bathroom, restaurant, or other area not conducive
to providing proper medical treatment and care.
10005]      Assisted ventilation in cases of cardiac arrest also requires prompt and
accurate placement of an intubation device within the trachea so that chest compressions
can occur. In such cases, intubation allows for ventilation of the lungs and a supply of
oxygen to the blood while chest compressions provide circulation of the blood.
[0006]      The American Heart Association's protocols for cardio pulmonary
resuscitation (CPR) previously required pausing after every fifteen chest compressions to
allow for two ventilations. The American Heart Association's 2010 protocols decreased
the frequency of ventilations such that chest compressions are to be paused after every
thirty compressions to allow for two ventilations. It is believed that the main reasons
supporting the change in protocol are: 1) reduce the amount of intra-thoracic pressure
associated with positive pressure ventilations since positive pressure ventilations decrease
the efficiency of the heart; and 2) to minimize the interruptions of chest compressions to
maintain constant arterial pressure. Accordingly, now most caregivers only
simultaneously ventilate the patient and provide compressions if the patient is properly
intubated.
[0007]      Fig. 1 provides a partial view of a patient's oral cavity 10, tongue 12 and
pharynx 14 where the pharynx 14 is the membrane-lined cavity at the rear of the oral
cavity 10. The pharynx 14 includes openings of the esophagus 16 and trachea 18. As
shown, the openings to the esophagus 16 and trachea 18 are adjacent to one another.
When a medical caregiver attempts to intubate a patient, the caregiver shall attempt to
position the intubation device within the trachea 18 to provide oxygen to the lungs 2. As
noted above, the caregiver shall attempt to avoid positioning the intubation device within
the esophagus 16 and in doing so often must proceed slowly and with caution to avoid
causing undesired trauma to vocal cords or other structures within the body.
[0008]      The wall of the esophagus 16 is composed of striated and smooth muscle.
Since the esophagus 16 relies on peristalsis to move food downward towards the stomach,
the walls of the esophagus 16 are naturally compliant and do not have any structural
reinforcement. The trachea 18, on the other hand, is relatively stronger and is naturally
                                              2

designed not to collapse given its function of transporting air to the bronchi and lungs 2.
The wall of the trachea 18 includes a number of cartilaginous semicircular rings 20 that
prevent the trachea 18 from collapsing. The trachea 20 lies anteriorly to the esophagus 16
where the openings of the esophagus 16 and trachea are separated by a tiny flap, the
epiglottis 22. The epiglottis 22 protects the trachea when the individual swallows food or
other substances.
10009]       Fig. 2 illustrates a conventional device 50 used for intubating a patient. As
shown, the device 50 is inserted through the mouth and oral cavity into the trachea 18.
The caregiver must navigate the device 50 into the trachea 18 rather than the esophagus
while traversing the epiglottis 22 and vocal cords 24. The caregiver must take particular
care to avoid causing damage to the vocal cords 24. Once properly positioned, the
caregiver can optionally inflate 52 a balloon on the device 50 to anchor the device within
the trachea 18. After the caregiver confirms placement of the device 50, ventilation of the
patient can take place.
[0010]       Presently, the Combitube, supplied by Nellcor, is commonly used for airway
management. The Combitube, also known as a double-lumen airway, is a blind insertion
airway device (BIAD) used by first responders as well as in an emergency room setting.
The Combitube is intended to allow for tracheal intubation of a patient in respiratory
distress by use of a cuffed, double-lumen tube. The double lumen tube is inserted into the
patient's airway to allow for ventilation of the patient's lungs. Inflation of the cuff allows
the device to function similarly to an endotracheal tube and usually closes off the
esophagus, allowing ventilation and preventing pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents.
[0011]       However, placement of traditional intubation devices is very difficult due to
the risk of improperly positioning the device. The risk of a device being improperly
positioned can be fatal if not recognized. The conventional devices described above
require positioning by an individual that is well trained in positioning such devices.
Furthermore, even well trained individuals must proceed with caution when placing
conventional devices.
[0012]       There remains a need for a ventilation device and/or system that can
effectively ventilate individuals and can be effectively positioned with minimal training
required by the caregiver.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0013]       The present disclosure includes devices and method allowing for improved
assisted ventilation of a patient. The methods and devices provide a number of benefits
                                                3

over conventional approaches for assisted ventilation. For example, the methods and
devices described herein permit blind insertion of a device that can allow ventilation
regardless of whether the device is positioned within a trachea or an esophagus. Some
variations of the devices and methods allow minimally trained bystanders and laypersons
to place an advanced airway for assisted ventilation. The devices described herein can be
designed such that a single size can accommodate a variety of patient sizes thereby
reducing the number of devices of varying sizes that must be kept in inventory.
Additionally, having devices 1 that can accommodate a wide range of individuals reduces
the need of a first responder to assess the anatomic features of a patient prior to acting on
the patient. Patients undergoing cardiac distress, high frequency ventilation can result in
elevated intrathoracic pressure. Elevated intrathoracic pressure can ultimately reduce the
effectiveness of chest compressions. Variations of the current device and methods allow
for controlled ventilation, which avoids high frequency ventilation.
[0014]      In certain variations the methods and devices described herein further allow
for a caregiver to perform continuous compressions simultaneous with insertion of the
device into the patient. Furthermore, the devices and methods allow for ventilation
without the need to stop compressions. Variations of the methods and devices allow for
reducing the number of people required to perform CPR.
[0015]      Variations of the devices described herein permit a patient to breathe on
his/her own if spontaneous respiration resumes. Moreover, if a device is inserted into a
patient that is not in respiratory arrest, the patient can continue to breath due to the
amount of time that the device is in an inspiration phase.
[0016]      In one example a method for ventilating an individual can include inserting a
ventilation device within a natural respiratory opening of the individual by advancing a
working end of the ventilation device within a body passageway of the individual, where
the working end includes a distal opening fluidly coupled to a first lumen and a medial
opening fluidly coupled to a second lumen; drawing suction drawing suction through the
distal opening and maintaining the suction for a period of time; determining a ventilation
lumen from the first lumen or second lumen by selecting the first lumen as the ventilation
lumen if the tissue of the body passageway does not seal the first opening; or selecting the
second lumen as the ventilation lumen if the tissue of the body passageway seals the first
opening; and ventilating the patient through the ventilation lumen.
[0017]      Another variation of a method under the present disclosure includes a method
for rapidly ventilating an individual experiencing respiratory distress by inserting a
                                                 4

ventilation device within a natural respiratory opening of the individual by advancing a
working end of the ventilation device within a body passageway of the individual, where
the working end includes a distal opening fluidly coupled to a first lumen and a medial
opening fluidly coupled to a second lumen; pulling a suction force through the distal
opening and maintaining the suction force for a period of time; and ventilating the
individual through the first lumen in the event that tissue from the body passageway does
not seal the distal opening, and alternatively, ventilating the individual through the second
lumen in the event that tissue from the body passageway seals the distal opening.
[0018]       The present disclosure also includes devices ventilating an individual through
one or more body passageways. For example, such a device can comprise: a tubular
member having at least a first and second lumen, where the first lumen is fluidly coupled
to a first opening located towards a distal portion of the tubular member, the second
lumen fluidly coupled to a medial opening being located proximally to the first opening
along a wall of the tubular member, where the first opening and medial opening are
fluidly isolated within the tubular member; a control system having a suction source and a
gas supply lumen, the control system having a valve configured to fluidly couple the
ventilation source to either the first lumen or to the second lumen; the control system also
capable of drawing suction through the first opening and first lumen, where the control
system is configured to identify formation of a seal at the first opening; where the control
system is further configured selectively form a ventilation path from the supply lumen to
the first lumen or second lumen by selecting the first lumen as the ventilation path if the
seal at the first opening fails to form; or selecting the second lumen as the ventilation path
if the seal forms at the first opening; and where the control system is capable of
ventilating the individual through the ventilation path.
[0019]       The ventilation systems described herein can be configured to work with other
rescue devices. For example, the ventilation system can be configured to work with an
active chest compression device so that ventilations and chest compressions are timed to
increase effectiveness of both the compression and ventilation. The coupling can be
mechanical and/or electrical. The ventilation system can also include carbon dioxide
sampling so that carbon dioxide levels are outputted via a signal or gas stream to a
monitor or other notification means as described herein.
[0020]       Variations of the methods and devices described herein can include adjusting
ventilation parameter to improve ventilation of the individual. Such parameters can
include a ventilation rate, volume, pressure, inhale and exhale ratios, and PEEP.
                                                5

[0021]       The methods and devices can include further providing an indicator signal to
identify desired times of chest compression. Such signals can include an audible signal, a
visual signal, and/or a tactile signal.
[0022]       Variations of the device can include an anchor, such as an inflatable balloon,
that temporarily secures the ventilation device in a body passageway. In some variations
the balloon can be coupled to the working end of the ventilation device.
10023]       Variations of the device can include a face mask or other structure that is used
to aid insertion of the device by allowing the caregiver to easily identify an orientation of
the device. Alternatively, the face mask or other structure can allow the caregiver to affix
the device to the individual.
[0024]       Variations of the devices described herein can include a proximal portion that
comprises a reinforced section to prevent collapse of the ventilation device in a mouth of
the individual. Devices can optionally include a pressure relief valve to adjust ventilation
parameters of the individual. Additional variations of devices can comprise a plurality of
markings on an exterior surface and where inserting the ventilation device into the natural
respiratory opening comprises advancing the ventilation device to a depth determined by
one or more markings. The ventilation system can also adjust ventilation parameters
based on carbon dioxide of the patient or pulse oximetry. Alternatively or in addition,
carboximetry and/or oximetry systems can be coupled to the system.
[0025]       The system and methods described herein can be compatible with devices that
monitor the concentration or partial pressure of carbon dioxide (C02) in the respiratory
gases (capnography). Primarily such devices are monitoring tool for use during
anesthesia and intensive care that monitor expiratory C02 are of interest when
rebreathing systems are being used. The ability to integrate the ventilation systems
described herein with such capnography systems allows for improved patient care.
Furthermore, the systems and methods described herein can be compatible with
equipment found in emergency vehicles such as oxygen supplies and/or power supplies.
In some variations, the system of the present disclosure can also provide audio or even
video (through use of a display screen) instructions to ensure proper operation in those
situations where the system may be used by first responders that are not trained
emergency personnel.
                                               6

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]      The invention is best understood from the following detailed description when
read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is emphasized that, according to
common practice, the various features of the drawings are not to-scale. On the contrary,
the dimensions of the various features are arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity.
Also for purposes of clarity, certain features of the invention may not be depicted in some
of the drawings. Included in the drawings are the following figures:
[0027]      Fig. 1 provides a partial view of a patient's oral cavity, tongue, pharynx as
well as esophagus and trachea.
[0028]      Fig. 2 illustrates one example of a conventional device as used to intubate a
patient.
[0029]      Fig. 3 illustrates various components of an example of an improved ventilation
system.
[0030]      Figs. 4A to 4C illustrate a partial sectional view of a working end of an
improved ventilation device.
[0031]      Figs. 5A to 5E show a representation of the process of ventilating a patient
using an improved ventilation device.
[0032]      Figs. 6A to 6C show additional variations of a working end of a ventilation
device.
[0033]      Fig. 7 illustrates a schematic of an electrically powered system.
[0034]      Fig. 8A shows an example of a component schematic for a pneumatically
driven system as described herein.
[0035]      Fig. 8B provides a component listing for the schematic of Fig. 8A.
[0036]      Fig. 8C shows a listing of various modes for the system.
[0037]      Figs. 8D to 8M illustrates various flow paths for the various modes of
operation.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0038]      Before the devices, systems and methods of the present invention are
described, it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular therapeutic
applications and implant sites described, as such may vary. It is also to be understood
that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments
only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present invention will be
limited only by the appended claims.
                                                7

[0039]       Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which
this invention belongs. The terms "proximal", "distal", "near" and "far" when used
indicate positions or locations relative to the user where proximal refers to a position or
location closer to the user and distal refers to a position or location farther away from the
user.
10040]       Fig. 3 illustrates various components of an example of an improved system
according to the present disclosure. As shown, the ventilation device 100 includes a
working end 102 that is inserted into a patient. The working end can include a distal
tubing 104 that contains a first lumen (not shown), which extends through a distal
opening 106 of the ventilation device 100 and is in fluid communication with a control
unit (also called a ventilator) 150 and/or supply source 160 via one or more proximal
tubes 118. The control unit 150 can also include an apparatus designed to provide suction
as well as a collection canister. In operation, the control unit 150 directs suction or
applies a vacuum through a first fluid path 122, which in turn causes a suction or negative
pressure at the distal opening 106. The source 160 can comprise oxygen, air, or any other
gas that is desired for ventilation of delivery into the lungs. The source 160 can be nested
within physical construct of the controller 150. However, the source 160 can be optional
so that the controller ventilates the patient only using ambient air.
[0041]       The control unit 150 maintains the device 100 in this state for a set period of
time and monitors the parameters of the pressure or flow parameters within the first
lumen to determine whether to ventilate through the first or second. The example
illustrated in Fig. 3 also includes a hub 108 with one or more features that aid in proper
functioning of the device. Such features are described in detail below. Furthermore, the
distal opening 106 can include any number of ports at the distal end of the device so long
as the ports are in a fluid path with the first lumen. Likewise, the medial opening 112 can
comprise any number of openings as long as those openings are in fluid communication
with the second lumen. In addition, variations of the device can also be inserted through
a nasal opening rather than a mouth.
[0042]       The ventilation device 100 further includes a proximal tubing 110 that houses
a second lumen (not shown) that exits the device 100 at a medial opening 112. As
discussed below, distal opening and first lumen are fluidly isolated from the medial
opening and second lumen through the working end of the device 102 to the control unit
150. This fluid isolation allows the control unit 150 to determine which lumen to use to
                                                 8

ventilate the patient. The control unit directs flow through a second fluid path 124 that is
fluidly coupled to the second lumen and medial opening 112 when the device is
positioned in the esophagus 16 rather than the trachea 18.
[0043]       The ventilation system 100 illustrated in Fig. 3 also shows an optional mask
114 with optional venting ports 116. Variations of the system can include alternate
configurations without a mask or with other such devices such as a mouth guard or any
other commonly used mounting apparatus. As discussed below, the mask 114 or other
mounting apparatus can be used to assist the caregiver in properly orienting the device
100 as it is inserted into the patient. Variations of the device can include a balloon,
sponge or any other structure that secures the proximal region of the device to the patient
to ensure that gas is directed to the lungs during inhalation. The mask (or other structure
as described herein) can include a securing band, tape strip, or temporary adhesive to
secure the mask in place on the patient. The mask or similar feature can be used to
determine how far to advance the working end 102 into the patient. Alternatively or in
combination, the device 100 can include graduated markings 134 to assist the caregiver in
properly advancing the device into the patient.
[0044]       Fig. 3 also shows a representative figure of a control system 150 with a
number of controls 152 that allow for various device operative sequences, manual
controls, or device overrides. For example the system 150 can include manual ventilation
controls so that the caregiver can manually adjust inspiration and expiration of the patient.
The controls 152 can include a reset or rapid ventilation mode for performing cardio
pulmonary resuscitation. The controls 150 include a continuous airflow or continuous
vacuum mode that can assist in clearing debris or bodily fluids from the body passages.
The controls also allow caregivers to connect the device 100 directly to an endotracheal
tube if the caregiver decides to intubate. In an additional variation, the system can allow
for active ventilation consisting of blowing for a period and then sucking for a period
through the active lumen in order to increase ventilation efficiency.
[0045]       In additional variations, the control system 150 can be integrated into one or
more parts of the device body 102 rather than being a separate stand-alone box type
configuration. In addition, the ventilation system 100 can be optionally configured to
work with a defibrillator. Alternate variations of the system 100 can be configured to
provide an audible, visual, or tactile sensation to indicate when a caregiver should
administer chest compressions.
                                                9

[0046]       Fig. 3 also shows the depicted variation of the device 100 as having an
optional balloon 132 or other expandable member located on a working end. When used,
the balloon can be positioned anywhere along the device adjacent to the distal opening
106. Alternatively, or in combination, a balloon can be located adjacent to the medial
opening.
[0047]       The various tubing forming the device 100 should be sufficiently flexible so
that the device can be navigated through the upper respiratory system. Alternatively, or
in addition, portions of the tubing can be constructed to withstand being collapsed by the
patient's mouth or teeth. In additional variations the system 100 can be designed such
that the distance between the distal opening 106 is adjustable relative to the medial
opening 112 and/or the mask 114 (or even moveable relative to the gradiations 134). A
similar variation includes a medial opening 112 that can be adjustably positioned relative
to the distal opening 106, mask 114 and or gradiations 134
[0048]       Figs. 4A to 4C illustrate a partial sectional view of an airway unit or working
end 102 of a ventilation device 100 as described herein.
[0049]       Fig. 4A illustrates a first lumen 128 that is fluidly coupled to a distal opening
106 and a second lumen 130 that is fluidly coupled to the medial opening 112 where the
first and second lumens 128 and 130 are fluidly isolated from each other as described
above. Fig. 4A also illustrates that the spacing 126 between the distal opening 106 and
the medial opening 112 can be selected based on the intended patient. For example, since
the medial opening 112 is intended to be positioned in or around the pharynx when the
distal opening 106 is positioned in the esophagus or trachea, the spacing 126 can be
selected for an individual of average build. In most cases, the working end 102 of the
ventilation device 100 will comprise a single use disposable component. Accordingly,
the ventilation device 100 can include a number of disposable components having
different spacing 126 between the medial 112 and distal 106 openings. For instance, the
varying spacing can accommodate infants, toddlers, young children, as well as various
body sizes.
[0050]       Fig. 4B illustrates a partial cross sectional view of the working end 102 of the
ventilation device of Fig. 4A. Once the device is properly positioned within the patient,
the control unit 150 applies a suction or vacuum through a first fluid path 122, then
through the first lumen 128 and ultimately causing a vacuum at the distal opening 106 as
denoted by arrows 30. In additional variations, the operator or caregiver may choose to
clear food or other debris from the patient by delivering air through the first lumen 128 or
                                                10

by attempting to use the suction at the distal opening to remove particles or other bodily
fluids. The system 150 shall continue to pull a vacuum through the first lumen 130 for a
period of time. If the device 100 is properly positioned within the trachea (as discussed
below), the system 150 will begin to ventilate through the first lumen 128. In other
words, the system 100 will begin to cyclically deliver oxygen or other gas from the source
160 and remove carbon dioxide from the patient to properly ventilate the patient's lungs.
In this situation, flow is not required through the second lumen 130 and medial opening
112. Although Fig. 4B shows the first lumen 128 to be located within the second lumen
130 any number of variations can be used. For example, the lumens can be concentric or
parallel. Additional variations even allow for the lumens to be in fluid communication
where one or more valves determine whether ventilation occurs through the distal
opening or through the medial opening.
[0051]       The system 150 can comprise the mechanism that ventilates and produces
suction or a vacuum. Generally, the system 150 is reusable (as opposed to the working
end that is generally disposable). The system 150 can be portable, affixed to an
ambulance or other emergency vehicle or build within a cart or room. Variations include
battery powered devices, pneumatic powered devices, or devices that require a power
source (such as an AC outlet).
[0052]       Fig. 4C illustrates the condition where the distal opening 106 is positioned
within the esophagus. In this situation the control unit 150 directs ventilation through the
second lumen 130. As shown by arrows 32, because the medial lumen 112 is fluidly
coupled to the second lumen 130 ventilation 32 takes place at the medial opening 112.
[0053]       Figs. 5A to 5E show a representation of the process of ventilating a patient
using a ventilation device 100 as described herein.
[0054]       Fig. 5A illustrates the ventilation device 100 as a caregiver advances the
device 100into the oral cavity 10 over the tongue 12 and into the pharynx 14. At any time
during the procedure, the caregiver can manually operate the device to suction fluids,
food particles, or other items from the body. As described herein, the caregiver can
"blindly" advance the working end 102 into the patient. As a result, the working end 102
will either end up in the esophagus 16 or trachea 18 of the patient.
[0055]       Fig. 5B illustrates the condition where the caregiver advances the working end
102 into a trachea 18 of an individual. Once the caregiver places the device 100, the
caregiver can initiate the control unit 150 to start the process to determine placement of
the device 100. Alternatively, one or more sensors on the device can automatically
                                                11

trigger actuation of the control unit. In either case, the control unit draws a vacuum
through the distal opening 106 for a predetermined period of time. The vacuum reduces
pressure and draws air within the distal opening 106. The control unit 150 then assess a
state of the device by monitoring the vacuum, airflow, or any other fluid parameter that
would indicate whether the walls of the body passage, in this case the trachea 18,
collapsed causing the formation of a vacuum seal. In those cases like Fig. 5B where the
device is situated within the trachea, the suction 30 will have little effect on the walls of
the trachea 18. As noted above, the walls of the trachea 18 are reinforced with rings of
cartilage 20 that provide structural rigidity of the airway. Because the controller 150 will
not detect the formation of a vacuum seal at the distal opening 106 (or within the first
lumen) the system registers the distal opening 106 as being properly positioned in the
trachea 18 (rather than the esophagus 16) and, after a pre-determined period of time (e.g.,
10-15 seconds), the controller 150 ceases to draw a vacuum and begins to ventilate the
patient's lungs by alternating between delivery of the gas from the gas supply 160 and
removing carbon dioxide. As a result, the first lumen is used as a ventilation lumen. It
will be important for the controller 150 to differentiate changes in vacuum or flow that
result from suctioning of fluids or debris. In some variations of the device, the controller
150 is configured to identify formation of a seal when the vacuum builds or flow drops to
a sufficient degree such that the device has formed a vacuum seal rather than suctioned
fluids or a substance.
[0056]      The control unit 150 can determine whether or not a seal is formed by
measuring strain on a suction motor (or similar apparatus such as a venturi device that
produces a vacuum) that causes the negative pressure within the main lumen for suction.
If the control unit 150 observes zero or minimal strain on the suction motor after a pre
determined time, then the control unit 150 will use the first lumen as the ventilation
lumen.
[0057]      Fig. 5D illustrates a state where the caregiver advances a working end 102 of
the ventilation device 100 into an esophagus 16 rather than the trachea 18. Similarly to
the state depicted by Fig. 5B above, once the caregiver positions the device 100, the
caregiver can initiate the control unit 150 to start the process to determine placement of
the device 100. As noted above, additional variations of the device and system can
include one or more sensors that can automatically trigger actuation of the control unit.
[0058]      Fig. 5D depicts the state where the control unit 150 pull vacuum through the
distal opening 106 for a predetermined period of time. The vacuum reduces pressure and
                                               12

draws air within the distal opening 106. The control unit 150 then assess a state of the
device by monitoring the vacuum, airflow, or any other fluid parameter that would
indicate whether the walls of the body passage, in this case the esophagus 16 collapsed.
As shown, the walls partially or totally collapse resulting in formation of a vacuum seal at
the distal opening 16. As noted above, muscles form the walls of the esophagus 16.
There is no reinforcing structure in the esophagus as opposed to the cartilage rings in the
trachea 18. The control unit can be configured to monitor the formation of a vacuum seal
and if the seal remains for a predetermined period of time, the control unit 150 directs
ventilation 40 in and out of the medial opening 112 as depicted in Fig. 5E. As shown and
discussed above, the spacing between the distal opening 106 and medial opening 112 can
be selected such that the medial opening remains in or near the pharynx 14. However,
variations of the device permit the medial opening to enter the esophagus 16 so long as
the opening 112 can continue to ventilate the patient.
[0059]      Because the control unit 150 will not detect the formation of a vacuum seal at
the distal opening 106 (or within the first lumen) the system registers the distal opening
106 as being properly positioned in the trachea 18 (rather than the esophagus 16) and,
after a pre-determined period of time, the control unit 150 ceases to draw a vacuum and
begins to ventilate the patient's lungs by alternating between delivery of the gas from the
gas supply 160 and removing carbon dioxide. In this situation the device uses the second
lumen as a ventilation lumen. One additional benefit of positioning the working end 102
of the device 100 within the esophagus 16 is that the vacuum seal produces an anchoring
effect that maintains the device in position. This feature eliminates the need to secure the
mask or other feature about the patient's head, neck or face. In addition, if a caregiver
inadvertently pulls the device 100 while a seal is formed, the vacuum seal is simply
broken and the device releases from the esophagus 16. This provides a safety
improvement over conventional ventilation devices that rely on an expandable balloon,
which if pulled, can cause trauma to the patient's airways, vocal cords, or other structures.
[0060]      In certain variations, the device 100 shall cease ventilating after a period of
time and produce suction through the distal opening. Such a step is considered a safety
feature in the event that the working end is moved, repositioned, etc.
[0061]      Figs. 6A to 6C show variations of the working end 102 of a ventilation device
as described herein. Fig. 6A illustrates a hub having an opening 106 that is surrounded by
a contoured surface. The contoured surface can assist reducing the chance that the distal
opening 106 becomes clogged due to food particles or other fluids. This feature also
                                               13

assists in reducing the occurrences that the control unit misreads an opening 106 that is
obstructed (with food particles or other bodily fluids) for an opening that formed a seal
with the walls of the esophagus. Figs. 6B and 6C illustrate additional variations of a
working end 102 of a ventilation device. In these variations, the working end 102 can be
fabricated with or without a hub. Fig. 6B illustrates a straight tube having a plurality of
openings 106. Fig. 6C illustrates a beveled end having an opening 106.
10062]       As noted above, the device described herein can be pneumatically driven using
compressed gas and valves or electrically controlled. Fig. 7 illustrates a schematic of an
electrically powered device using a suction motor, air compressor and circuitry to switch
between a first fluid path 122 (ultimately fluidly coupled to a distal opening) and a second
fluid path 124 (ultimately fluidly coupled to a medial opening).
[0100]       Fig. 8A shows an example of a component schematic for a system as
described herein that is pneumatically driven. Fig. 8B provides a list of the components
found in Fig. 8A. The valves operate in multiple states based on the conditions discussed
above. The following description illustrates an example of the different states of the
components found in the component schematic of Fig. 8A.
[0101]       Medial Supply Valve P1 (4/2);
             State 1 (nominal, spring return): Controls the 15s timing of vacuum supply
through Distal Supply Valve P2;
             State 2 (actuated): Provides supply for medial ventilation;
             Pilot Actuation: 10"Hg vacuum
[0102]       Distal Supply Valve P2 (4/2)
             State 1 (nominal, spring return): Provides supply for Vacuum Generator;
             State 2 (actuated): Provides Supply for Distal Ventilation;
             Pilot Actuation: 40psi from flow-controlled output of Medial Supply Valve,
State 1.
[0103]       Pulse Valve P3 (3/2 Normally Open);
             State 1 (nominal, spring return): Fills Accumulator volume at flow-controlled
rate until set pressure is achieved at inline Relief Valve;
             State 2: (actuated): Dumps accumulator volume to Ventilation Selector Valve
through quick exhaust;
             Pilot Actuation: 5psi from output of inline Relief Valve
[0104]       Ventilation Selector Valve P4 (3/2 Fully Ported);
             State 1 (nominal, spring return): Routes output of Pulse Valve to Medial
                                               14

Ventilation Output;
            State 2: (actuated): Routes output of Pulse Valve to Distal Ventilation Output;
            Pilot Actuation: 40psi from output of Distal Supply Valve, State 2
[0105]      Operation Valve M1 (Manual Toggle, 3 position, All Detent);
            State 1 (toggle down, "ON"): Provides supply for Medial Supply Valve and
Distal Supply Valve;
            State 2 (toggle centered, "OFF/RESET"): Blocks supply, vents system;
            State 3 (toggle up, "VACUUM"): Bypasses all valves, provides supply to
Vacuum Generator.
[0106]      Mode Valve M2 (Manual Toggle, 3 position, Detent/Detent/Momentary);
            State 1 (toggle down, detent, "VENTILATE"): Provides supply for Pulse
Valve and Ventilation Selector Valve;
            State 2 (toggle centered, detent, "BYPASS"): Blocks supply to Pulse Valve
and Ventilation Selector Valve.
            State 3 (toggle up, momentary spring return, "ON-DEMAND"): Blocks
supply to Pulse Valve, provides continuous flow-controlled supply to Ventilation Selector
Valve
[0107]      The system illustrated by the component schematic of Fig. 8A can have a
variety of modes of operation. In one example, as shown by Fig. 8C, the system can
include 8 separate modes of operations controlled by the position of various valves and
the operation state of a medial supply valve.
[0108]      Mode 0, where the system is set to an Off position.
            M1 set to OFF;
            Main supply blocked; system vented;
[0109]      Fig. 8D shows Mode 1, where there is a continuous vacuum applied through
the sytem.
            M1 set to VACUUM
            Ventilation system bypassed; vacuum at Vacuum Output; Vacuum Indicator
on
[0110]      Fig. 8E shows Mode 2, where the system engages in placement detection;
            M1 set to ON;
            Vacuum at Vacuum Output until P2 pilot activated (15s); Vacuum Indicator
on;
                                               15

[0111]       In Mode 3, the system engages in ventilation through the distal opening.
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to VENTILATE;
             No vacuum detected; P2 pilot activated; P4 pilot activated.
[0112]       Fig. 8F shows Mode 3A, where an accumulator fills at controlled rate (0.67s)
until inline Relief Valve activates (30psi);
             Distal Ventilation Indicator on.
10113]       Fig. 8G shows Mode 3B: P3 pilot activates, closing P3 and exhausting
Accumulator volume through Quick Exhaust to P4; Distal Ventilation Indicator on.
[0114]       Mode 4 - Medial Ventilation
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to VENTILATE
             Vacuum detected; P1 pilot activated; vacuum at Vacuum Output.
[0115]       Fig. 8H shows Mode 4A where accumulator fills at controlled rate (0.67s)
until inline Relief Valve activates (30psi);
             Vacuum Indicator on;
             Medial Ventilation Indicator on.
[0116]       Fig. 81 shows Mode 4B: P3 pilot activates, closing P3 and exhausting
Accumulator volume through Quick Exhaust to P4;
             Vacuum Indicator on; Medial Ventilation Indicator on.
[0117]       Fig. 8J shows Mode 5 - Ventilation Bypass (Distal);
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to BYPASS;
             No vacuum detected; P2 pilot activated; P4 pilot activated; supply to P3 & P4
blocked; Distal Ventilation Indicator on.
[0118]       Fig. 8K shows Mode 6 - On-Demand Ventilation (Distal);
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to ON-DEMAND;
             No vacuum detected; P2 pilot activated; P4 pilot activated; supply to P3
blocked; continuous flow-regulated flow to P4; Distal Ventilation Indicator on
[0119]       Fig. 8L shows Mode 7 - Ventilation Bypass (Medial);
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to BYPASS;
             Vacuum detected; P1 pilot activated; vacuum at Vacuum Output;
              supply to P3 blocked;
             Vacuum Indicator on;
             Medial Ventilation Indicator on
[0120]       Fig. 8M shows Mode 8 - On-Demand Ventilation (Medial);
             M1 set to ON; M2 set to ON-DEMAND;
                                              16

            Vacuum detected; P1 pilot activated; vacuum at Vacuum Output;
             supply to P3 blocked;
            continuous flow-regulated flow to P4; Vacuum Indicator on; Medial
Ventilation Indicator on.
[0121]      The preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be
appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which,
although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the invention
and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore, all examples and conditional
language recited herein are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the
principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the
art, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited
examples and conditions. Moreover, all statements herein reciting principles, aspects,
and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to
encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended
that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents and equivalents developed
in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of
structure. The scope of the present invention, therefore, is not intended to be limited to
the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather, the scope and spirit of
present invention is embodied by the appended claims.
[0122]      It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular
forms "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a string" may include a plurality of such
strings and reference to "the tubular member" includes reference to one or more tubular
members and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art, and so forth.
[0123]      Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening
value, to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise, between the upper and lower limits of that range is also specifically disclosed.
Each smaller range between any stated value or intervening value in a stated range and
any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the
invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be
included or excluded in the range, and each range where either, neither or both limits are
included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention, subject to any
specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or
                                                17

both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also
included in the invention.
[0124]      All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to
disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
publications are cited. The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their
disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be
construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such
publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication provided may
be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently
confirmed.
                                                18

                                              CLAIMS
That which is claimed is:
   1. A method for ventilating an individual, the method comprising:
                inserting a ventilation device within a natural respiratory opening of the
       individual by advancing a working end of the ventilation device within a body
       passageway of the individual, where the working end includes a distal opening fluidly
       coupled to a first lumen and a medial opening fluidly coupled to a second lumen;
                drawing suction through the distal opening and maintaining the suction for a
       period of time;
                determining a ventilation lumen from the first lumen or second lumen by
                         selecting the first lumen as the ventilation lumen if the tissue of the body
       passageway does not seal the first opening; or
                         selecting the second lumen as the ventilation lumen if the tissue of the
       body passageway seals the first opening; and
                ventilating the patient through the ventilation lumen.
   2.  The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting ventilation parameter to improve
       ventilation of the individual where the ventilation parameter comprises a parameter
       selected from the group consisting of a ventilation rate, volume, pressure, inhale and
       exhale ratios, and PEEP.
   3. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing an indicator signal to identify
       desired times of chest compression.
   4.   The method of claim 4, where the signal comprises a signal selected from the group
       consisting of an audible signal and a visual signal.
   5. The method of claim 1, further comprising initially ventilating through the second lumen
       during application of suction through the first lumen.
   6.  The method of claim 1, further comprising deploying an anchor to temporarily secure the
       ventilation device in the body passageway.
   7.  The method of claim 7, where the anchor comprises a balloon coupled to the working end
       of the ventilation device.
                                                  19

8. The method of claim 1, where a proximal portion of the ventilation device further
    comprises a face mask and where the method includes affixing the face mask to the
    individual.
9.  The method of claim 1, where a proximal portion of the ventilation device further
    comprises a reinforced section to prevent collapse of the ventilation device in a mouth of
    the individual.
10. The method of claim 1, where a proximal portion of the ventilation device further
    comprises a pressure relief valve to adjust ventilation parameters of the individual.
11. The method of claim 1, where the ventilation device comprises a plurality of markings on
    an exterior surface and where inserting the ventilation device into the natural respiratory
    opening comprises advancing the ventilation device to a depth determined by one or more
    markings.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising coupling a collection member to the first
    lumen and collecting bodily fluids in the collection member during suctioning.
13. The method of claim 1, where the body passageway comprises either a trachea or an
    esophagus of the individual and where selecting the first lumen comprises selecting the
    first lumen if the working portion of the ventilation device is positioned within the
    trachea.
14. The method of claim 1, where the body passageway comprises either a trachea or an
    esophagus of the individual and where selecting the first lumen comprises selecting the
    second lumen if the working portion of the ventilation device is positioned within the
    esophagus.
15. A method for rapidly ventilating an individual experiencing respiratory distress, the
    method comprising:
             inserting a ventilation device within a natural respiratory opening of the
    individual by advancing a working end of the ventilation device within a body
    passageway of the individual, where the working end includes a distal opening fluidly
    coupled to a first lumen and a medial opening fluidly coupled to a second lumen;
             pulling a suction force through the distal opening and maintaining the suction
    force for a period of time; and
             ventilating the individual through the first lumen in the event that tissue from the
    body passageway does not seal the distal opening, and alternatively, ventilating the
                                             20

    individual through the second lumen in the event that tissue from the body passageway
    seals the distal opening.
16. The method of claim 16, further comprising initially ventilating through the second lumen
    during application of suction through the first lumen.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising deploying an anchor to temporarily secure
    the ventilation device in the body passageway.
18. The method of claim 21, where the anchor comprises a balloon coupled to the working
    end of the ventilation device.
19. The method of claim 16, where a proximal portion of the ventilation device further
    comprises a reinforced section to prevent collapse of the ventilation device in a mouth of
    the individual.
20. The method of claim 16, where a proximal portion of the ventilation device further
    comprises a pressure relief valve to adjust ventilation parameters of the individual.
21. The method of claim 16, where the ventilation device comprises a plurality of markings
    on an exterior surface and where inserting the ventilation device into the natural
    respiratory opening comprises advancing the ventilation device to a depth determined by
    one or more markings.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising coupling a collection member to the first
    lumen and collecting bodily fluids in the collection member during suctioning.
23. The method of claim 16, where the body passageway comprises either a trachea or an
    esophagus of the individual and where selecting the first lumen comprises selecting the
    first lumen if the working portion of the ventilation device is positioned within the
    trachea.
24. The method of claim 16, where the body passageway comprises either a trachea or an
    esophagus of the individual and where selecting the first lumen comprises selecting the
    second lumen if the working portion of the ventilation device is positioned within the
    esophagus.
25. A device for ventilating an individual through one or more body passageways, the device
    comprising:
             a tubular member having at least a first and second lumen, where the first lumen
                                             21

    is fluidly coupled to a first opening located towards a distal portion of the tubular
    member, the second lumen fluidly coupled to a medial opening being located proximally
    to the first opening along a wall of the tubular member, where the first opening and
    medial opening are fluidly isolated within the tubular member;
              a control system having a suction source and a gas supply lumen, the control
    system having a valve configured to fluidly couple the ventilation source to either the first
    lumen or to the second lumen; the control system also capable of drawing suction through
    the first opening and first lumen, where the control system is configured to identify
    formation of a seal at the first opening;
              where the control system is further configured selectively form a ventilation path
    from the supply lumen to the first lumen or second lumen by
                       selecting the first lumen as the ventilation path if the seal at the first
    opening fails to form; or
                       selecting the second lumen as the ventilation path if the seal forms at the
    first opening; and
              where the control system is capable of ventilating the individual through the
    ventilation path.
26. The device of claim 25, further comprising providing an indicator signal to identify
    desired times of chest compression.
27. The device of claim 26, where the signal comprises a signal selected from the group
    consisting of an audible signal and a visual signal.
28. The device of claim 25, further comprising an anchor to temporarily secure the tubular
    member in a body passageway.
29. The method of claim 8, where the anchor comprises a balloon coupled to the working end
    of the ventilation device.
30. The device of claim 25, where the tubular member further comprises a reinforced section
    to prevent collapse of the ventilation device in a mouth of the individual.
31. The device of claim 25, where the control system further comprises a pressure relief valve
    to adjust ventilation parameters of the individual.
32. The device of claim 25, where the tubular member comprises a plurality of markings on
    an exterior surface and where inserting the ventilation device into a natural respiratory
    opening comprises advancing the device to a depth determined by one or more markings.
                                                22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
