                                         ABSTRACT
A method of treating sleep disorder breathing in a patient, the method comprising in a
first step providing a set of oral appliances comprising a first and at least a second oral
appliance (30).     Each of the first and at least second oral appliances comprises a
generally U shaped appliance body including an inner wall (34), an outer wall (36), and
a web (38) interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall. The web has a front section
and two arms with trailing ends. The web comprises at least one breathing hole (80) so
as to define a total cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area
for breathing of the first oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for
breathing of the second oral appliance. In a second step, a patient wears the first oral
appliance in a first treatment stage whilst sleeping for a first period of time and in a third
step the patient wears the second oral appliance in a second treatment stage whilst
sleeping for a second period of time.
Figure 1

                        30
            28
53    (            46
                   34          40
                           489
                                  39
                  37 60
   72                                54
        51
           FIG. I

                                       ORAL APPLIANCE
                                              FIELD
 5 The present disclosure relates broadly to an oral appliance for use in the treatment of
   sleep disorder breathing (SDB).      The disclosure also relates broadly to a method of
   training a patient to nose breathe rather than mouth breathe.
   The disclosure also extends to a system of appliances for treating a patient having SBD
10 and/or training a patient to nose breathe rather than mouth breathe.
                                           DEFINITIONS
   In the specification and claims the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad
15 meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
   integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on
   the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
20 In the specification and claims, the term "sleep disorder breathing" refers to any condition
   where there is an abnormal breathing pattern during sleep.            In some cases this
   abnormality is as a result of an upper airway obstruction during sleep, including but not
   limited to include snoring, upper airway resistance syndrome (UARS), and obstructive
   sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). Abnormal breathing can also occur in the
25 absence of any airway obstruction during sleep in which the patient stops breathing for
   a period of time, known as an apneic event.
                                          BACKGROUND
30 Over the past two decades, the medical and dental profession has become more aware
   of breathing disorders and in particular sleep disorder breathing as a major contributor
   to a number of health problems. Previously it was considered that snoring was a
   manifestation of a sleeping habit but it is now known that this leads to more severe
   disorders like Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA). OSA has been associated with the
35 causes of heart disease, strokes and all as chronic daytime tiredness and spontaneous
   sleeping. The various forms of severity of OSA, snoring, and other syndromes have been
   described under the definition Sleep Disorder Breathing (SDB).
                                                 1

   SDB comprises a wide spectrum of sleep-related breathing abnormalities; those related
   to increased upper airway resistance include snoring, upper airway resistance syndrome
   (UARS), and obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS). Many clinicians
 5 regard SDB as a spectrum of diseases. This concept suggests that a person who snores
   may be exhibiting the first manifestation of SDB and that snoring should not be viewed
   as normal. This concept has support from experimental studies showing increasing
   airway collapsibility during sleep with progression from normal, snoring, UARS, and
   OSA.
10
   Snoring is one of the most common aspects of SDB. After sleep apnea syndrome was
   recognized, snoring began to be viewed as an important clinical symptom. Although it is
   by far the most common symptom of sleep apnea, not all patients who snore have sleep
   apnea.
15
   Pathogenesis of OSA involves a combination of reduced upper airway size and altered
   upper airway muscle activity, which causes oral tissue to collapse, and hence a blockage
   to occur. When a person is awake, muscles hold the pharyngeal airway open. These
   muscles can relax when sleeping. Other factors which are thought to contribute to OSA
20 include weight, tongue size, soft palate volume, a retrognathic mandible,                 an
   anteroposterior discrepancy between the maxilla and the mandible, and obesity.
   Snoring and OSA are often associated as generally both are caused by blockage of the
   pharyngeal airway by, for example, excess tissue when various muscles of the body,
25 including the tongue, relax. As the tongue relaxes, it moves posteriorly, blocking the
   pharyngeal airway. When the pharyngeal airway is blocked, exhaled air is forced through
   the airway with increased velocity thereby causing vibration of the tongue, tissue, or other
   obstruction, thereby creating noise.
30 Snoring is caused by the partial obstruction of breathing during sleep while OSA occurs
   when the tongue and soft palate collapse onto the back of the throat and completely
   block the pharyngeal airway, thereby stopping breathing during sleep and restricting the
   flow of essential oxygen. Thus, a correlation between snoring and OSA is generally
   recognized in the medical community.
35
   Snoring is common in people who breathe through their mouth when asleep. Mouth
   breathing causes the mandible to drop and decreases the area of the pharyngeal airway.
                                               2

   It also causes the tongue to be pushed back into the throat, thereby creating the
   obstruction associated with SDB
   The traditional medical treatment for OSA has been the Continuous Positive Air Pressure
 5 Appliance (CPAP). CPAP treatment uses a positive air pressure to hold the airway open
   during sleep. The positive air pressure is generated by a pump and is applied through a
   small mask which fits over the nose, or the nose and mouth. CPAP stops snoring by
   preventing structures in the airway from vibrating. Equally as important, CPAP prevents
   the airway from becoming narrow and obstructing breathing. When an optimal pressure
10 is applied through the mask, breathing becomes regular and unobstructed, the body's
   oxygen levels remain stable and the patient does not snore.
   CPAP however, does not cure obstructive sleep apnoea - it only treats the symptoms of
   OSA. Therefore, if patients cease using CPAP, snoring and obstructive sleep apnoea
15 will usually return. For this reason, CPAP treatment must be used every night. CPAP is
   also a bulky, inconvenient and uncomfortable method of treatment, causing the majority
   patients to stop treatment and live with the complaint.
   Intra -Oral appliances for alleviation of SDB symptoms have been used for a similar
20 period to the CPAP. While considered less effective and not suitable for more severe
   cases, they are more convenient, easier to use and certainly more portable. So the
   compliance factor has brought the attention of the medical profession to view intra-oral
   appliances as the primary treatment for SDB for moderate to more severe cases who
   have a compliance issue with the CPAP regime.
25
   There are many types of Dental Sleep Appliances (DSA) and the designs vary
   considerably. The most common are the Mandibular Advancement Devices (MAD). The
   principle behind the MAD devices is that advancing the mandible in an anterior position
   relative to the maxilla during sleep opens the pharyngeal airway by indirectly urging the
30 tongue forward to stimulate activity of the muscles in the tongue and thereby also
   increases the forward rigidity of the tongue. Since the tongue attaches to the posterior
   portion of the mandibular symphysis, advancing the mandible forward relative to the
   maxilla also pulls the tongue forward, thus preventing the tongue from obstructing the
   pharyngeal airway. Mandibular advancement devices therefore function to move the
35 mandible, and hence the tongue forward to open the oropharynx. Snoring is believed to
   decrease proportionally with the increase in airway size or diameter.
                                                3

   One type of MAD is a single piece double mouth guard like device that fits to the upper
   and lower teeth.        It is considered important that these devices allow essentially
   unrestricted breathing through the mouth. The reason behind this is that if the problem
   is an obstructed        airway, that restricting air flow through      the mouth will be
 5 counterproductive.
   Other MAD devices are in two parts that are hinged that are adjustably connectable to
   allow for titration of the amount of advancement. Others are formed from a single piece
   of thermoplastic with a living hinge. A recognized advantage of the hinged devices is
10 that they allow the mouth to open for unrestricted breathing.         It is considered very
   important that breathing is not restricted for mouth breathers as the object of the prior art
   MAD devices is to increase the amount of airflow.
   However, these MAD devices pose potentially damaging effects. Most single piece
15 devices fit over both the maxillary and mandibular teeth and are typically held nearly
   stationary, thereby restricting movement, causing discomfort, and potential permanent
   repositioning of the jaw.
   The temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is the joint that connects the mandible to the skull.
20 The mandibular condyle is received within the superior synovial cavity          The TMJ is
   flexible, allowing the mandible to move smoothly up and down and side to side and
   enabling a person to talk, chew and yawn. Muscles attached to and surrounding the TMJ
   control the position and movement of the mandible.
25 Continued use of devices that restrict the natural lateral movements as well as anterior
   and posterior movement of the mandible can potentially aggravate the TMJ and the
   related facial musculature.
   Still further, mandibular advancement will clearly place stress on the TMJ as the
30 mandibular condyle is anteriorly displaced relative to its normal position. This can lead
   to TMJ disorder. TMJ disorder covers a group of conditions that cause pain and
   dysfunction in the jaw joint and the muscles that control jaw movement.
   There are therefore serious concerns within the dental community of the medium to long
35 term effects of devices that over advance the mandible. These effects can cause
   adverse changes in occlusion, damage teeth and potential damage to the TMJ's.
   However, it is thought that the high priority in correcting snoring, SDB and health issues
                                                  4

   from OSA would make the medical practitioner and patient consider this a side effect
   that needs to be accepted for the overall benefits.
   Patients with existing TMJ disorders are generally cautioned against using a MAD as
   such use can exacerbate the condition. A healthy TMJ is a prerequisite for MAD use.
 5
   MADs are based on orthodontic appliance principles which are designed to correct a
   class Il malocclusion. In a class 11malocclusion there is a misalignment between the
   teeth of the dental arches and the upper teeth are forward of the lower teeth in what is
   commonly known as an overbight. Orthodontic appliances for the treatment of class II
10 malocclusions in pre-adolescents advance the mandible and stimulate and enhance
   mandibular growth. The appliances also place and equal and opposite retractive force
   on the maxilla and restrains growth of the maxilla.
   It is generally believed that the greater level of mandibular advancement caused by a
15 MAD, the better the treatment effective for SDB. Advancement of between 50% and
   75% of maximum mandibular protrusions is recommended.             Physiological protrusion
   lengths are typically between about 7mm to about 12mm. The American Academy of
   Dental Sleep Medicine (AADSM) has published a report on what features define an
   effective oral appliance for the treatment of OSA. One of the features defined is that the
20 appliance should permit protrusive advancement over a range of at least 5mm.           It is
   considered desirable to be able to gradually advance the mandible with treatment so as
   to reduce pain and soreness and alleviate TMJ pain.
   These recommendations have been based upon a number of factors and in particular
25 pulse oximetry. Oximetry measures hemoglobin 02 saturation. This measurement is
   based upon the generally held belief in the MAD art that simply physically opening up
   the airways and allowing more air to be breathed can treat SDB.
   It may be appreciated that using an oral appliance designed for treating a class II
30 malocclusion by advancing the mandible and retracting the maxilla would have the same
   effect on a person with normal occlusion.
   It is the maxilla that determines the effective horizontal dimension of the pharynx and in
   particular the upper pharynx. Maxillary constriction has been reported to be associated
35 with narrowing of the pharyngeal airway and may play a role in the etiology of OSA.
   Rapid maxillary expansion is an effective procedure for widening nasal cavities and
   decreasing nasal airway resistance which can lead to improvement in nasal breathing.
                                                 5

   Furthermore, it can be a useful therapy in children with obstructive sleep apnea
   syndrome.
   Long term mandibular advancement for a patient having a normal occlusion towards a
 5 non-physiological position that retracts the maxilla may cause maxilla contraction. As
   the maxilla accommodates the nasal passages, this also may cause constriction of the
   nasal passages, thereby encouraging the mouth breathing that contributes to the
   problem.
10 Using a device to alleviate SBD symptoms that may promotes the possible causative
   effect of OSA of narrowing the pharyngeal airway is bound to cause difficulties.        The
   patient's SBD symptoms will be worse off when not wearing the appliance.         In order to
   alleviate symptoms, the patient must wear the appliance indefinitely.
15 SDB including snoring and OSA is also very common in childhood often begins when
   adenotonsillar enlargement peaks in the 2 - 5 year old age range. The American
   Academy of Sleep Medicine reports that the prevalence of OSA is approximately two
   percent in otherwise healthy young children. Chronic snoring occurs in almost 10% of
   children of both sexes.
20
   Children with SDB present with behaviour problems, deficits of general intelligence,
   learning   and   memory     deficits,    evidence  of  brain  neuronal   injury,  increased
   cardiovascular risk, and poor quality of life. Children are in a rapid state of cognitive
   development; therefore, alterations of health and brain function associated with SDB
25 could permanently alter a child's social and economic potential, especially if the disorder
   is not recognized early in life or is treated inadequately.
   One treatment for OSA in infants and children is surgical removal of tonsils and
   adenoids. However, treatment with CPAP therapy is increasingly being used. The main
30 concern in using CPAP on children is the potential of the mask and headgear to cause
   structural changes in the face and restrict forward facial growth with long-term use. The
   bones in the face are not fused in children and so are malleable.
   Additionally, MAD devices cannot be used on growing children as they can have major
35 detrimental effects on orofacial growth and development. Forcing the mandible forward
   can result in class 3 malocclusion in which the mandible is more developed than the
   maxilla and does not correctly match the size of the upper arch. In children whose OSA
                                                   6

   is associated with maxillary constriction, the MAD devices would make a bad situation
   significantly worse.
   Still further, the MAD devices protrude the mandible by applying force on a patient's
 5 teeth.    Patients must therefore have healthy, well supported and distributed teeth that
   can withstand the force.
   As a result of the force applied to the teeth, long term MAD use i.e. three or more years
   may lead to retroinclination of the maxillary incisors, proinclination of the mandibular
10 insicors, a decrease in the number of occlusal connect points, an anteroposterior change
   on occlusion, increases in the mandibular plane angle and increases in the anterior facial
   height.
   It is well established that the use of intraoral appliances for SDB therapy is an ongoing
15 process. The appliances simply treat the symptoms without in any way addressing the
   underlying cause.       The American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine (AADSM)
   recommends that an oral appliance must have an expected lifespan of at least three
   years.
20 Other devices are known as tongue retaining devices that work by pulling the tongue
   forward so as to open the airway, with less or no mandibular advancement when
   compared with the MAD devices. It will be appreciated that by pulling the tongue forward,
   it is also not possible to mouth breath and/or many devices block the mouth completely.
   Such devices are uncomfortable and have poor compliance.
25
   It may be appreciated that all of the above appliances and treatments attempt to
   ameliorate the symptoms of SDB by seeking to open up the pharyngeal airway by
   applying external physical force.      However, they fail to address any solution to the
   problem, or in any way suggest that a solution is possible.
30
   Mouth breathing is also considered a breathing disorder that has a number of detrimental
   effects that are well documented, particularly in growing children. Poor oral posture and
   habits in a growing child can cause a number of problems such as malocclusion, crowing
   of the teeth, an open bite and narrow arch formations. These problems can adversely
35 affect facial growth patterns. Failure to treat these problems at an early age in a growing
   child will generally require physical intervention such as braces and/or surgery at a later
                                                  7

   date. This is a most undesirable outcome for a patient. Current treatments for mouth
   breathing concentrate on myofunctional therapy.
 5                             SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
   The present disclosure therefore relates to a method of treating sleep disorder breathing
   in a patient, the method comprising the steps of;
10 (a) providing a set of oral appliances comprising a first oral appliance and at least a
   second oral appliance, wherein each of the first oral appliance and at least second oral
   appliance comprises;
            a generally U shaped appliance body with a front section and two arms, the
   appliance body including an inner wall and an outer wall,
15          a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
   section and two arms with trailing ends,
            each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
   the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
            each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
20 the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
            wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
   cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
   first appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
   oral appliance;
25
   (b) causing the patient to wear the first oral appliance in a first treatment stage whilst
   sleeping for a first period of time; and
   (c) causing the patient to wear the second oral appliance in a second treatment stage
30 whilst sleeping for a second period of time.
   This method is based upon an understanding of the biochemistry and physiology of
   ventilation and the critical role that is played by CO 2 . It may be appreciated that this is
   an entirely different approach to prior art MAD devices that are only concerned with
35 physically opening up the airways by advancing the mandible or using tongue retaining
   devices that hold the tongue forward.
                                                  8

   The human respiratory control system operates such that under normal conditions the
   respiratory and circulatory systems deliver 02 according to metabolic demands and
   excrete C02 in the amount that it is generated. Excretion of C02 plays a significantly
   more important role than merely removal of a waste gas.
 5 C02    is enzymatically converted to carbonic acid in the blood stream which in turn
   dissociates to hydrogen ion and bicarbonate buffer;
             C02    +       H20      -*       H2CO3 -         H+       +       HC0 3
   C02    therefore plays a critical role in plasma pH control.
   Oxygen haemoglobin dissociation is pH dependent. An increase in pH increases
10 haemoglobin's affinity for 02 and a decrease in pH reduces the affinity such that 02 is
   released at the cellular level. As the blood in the lungs has a higher pH than blood in
   the tissues (by virtue of the lower C02 concentration) the pH dependence of
   haemoglobin affinity allows 02 to be collected in the lungs and transported for delivery
   to the tissues at the lower pH.
15 It will be appreciated therefore that if the pH of blood in the tissues increases, the
   affinity of haemoglobin for 02 will increase, thereby reducing 02 availability to the cells.
   PH is related to the partial pressure of C02 in the arterial blood (PC0 2). An optimum
   PC0 2 is required for optimum delivery of C02 to the cells.
   Changes in blood pH can also lead to major metabolic problems.
20 Ventilation is primarily controlled by PC0     2 and ventilation will cease when PC0    2 falls
   below a point known as the apneic threshold. PC0          2 is actively regulated to remain
   constant. The PC0     2 homeostatic set point for a normal person is about 40mm Hg that
   is well above the apneic threshold of about 32mm Hg.
   During exercise, more C02 is generated such that the PC0            2 raises above the
25 homeostatic set point of about 40mm Hg. This has the effect of increasing ventilation
   rate such that more C02 is excreted.          Generally, there is a close match between C02
   produced and excreted such that the PC0 2 remains at about 40mm Hg. This also
   maintains blood pH at about 7.3 that ensures proper oxygen supply to the cells. To
   further assist in circulation and enhance oxygen and glucose transfer to the muscles,
30 blood vessel diameter increases with higher PC0 2. Conversely as PC0 2 drops, the
   blood vessels contract.
                                                     9

   Matching metabolic C02 generation with C02 excretion is therefore very important.
   Unlike most other homeostasis mechanisms in the body, such as control of body
   temperature, ventilation can be voluntarily controlled to some extent. If a person holds
   their breath, metabolic C02 increases to a level that ventilation can no longer be
 5 voluntarily controlled and a person eventually has to breathe.
   On the other hand, if a person breathes out more C02 than is produced, PC0          2 falls,
   blood pH increases, thereby increasing the affinity of haemoglobin for 02 and reducing
   its availability to the cells. This occurs during hyperventilation. People hyperventilate
   due to stress or just before physical exertion. In the latter, the blown off C02 is quickly
10 replaced by metabolic C02 as a result of the exertion.
   However, if the hyperventilative state continues for longer than several hours, the high
   pH triggers the acid base homeostatic mechanism in the body to decrease the pH to its
   normal level. The kidneys begin to retain acid and excrete alkaline bicarbonate buffer,
   which returns the pH to the normal value of 7.3. It will be appreciated that the plasma
15 pH is now normal but with a lower PC0 2 . As the blood concentration of bicarbonate
   buffer has been depleted, the person is much more sensitive to pH changes. Such a
   person is suffering from hyperventilation syndrome (HSV)
   HVS is a recognised condition with serious side effects. It is relatively common but
   often undiagnosed. HSV does not appear to have any organic cause and many people
20 with HSV suffer from various stress disorders that may have caused the original over
   breathing. Pharmacological intervention is often used for treatment of the underlying
   stress disorder together with breathing exercises and behavioural therapy.
   For a person suffering from HSV, if PC0     2 is increased such as during exercise, in the
   absence of a normal blood buffering capacity, the PC0      2 increase will quickly increase
25 blood acidity. If the residual buffer cannot compensate for the increase in acid, the
   respiratory centre is stimulated to help regulate the body fluid pH by increasing
   ventilation rate and eliminating C02. Such people are frequently out of breath and are
   intolerant to exercise.
   Whilst not wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that such a circumstance serves
30 to reset the homeostatic set point such that the breathing reflex will be stimulated when
   PC0   2 is in the order of 36 to 39mm Hg, that is below the normal PC0 2 of about 40mm
   Hg.
   Turning now to DSA's as discussed above, they operate by mandibular advancement
   and/or bringing the tongue forward so as to open the airways so as to increase the
                                                  10

   airflow into the lungs. This appears to be a logical solution and is the well established
   understanding of those of skill in the art of DSA's. Many MADs not only allow mouth
   breathing but actively encourage mouth breathing.
   The present inventor has appreciated that such an approach not only fails to take into
 5 account the physiological and biochemical feedback mechanisms that control
   ventilation as discussed above, but actually makes the condition worse.
   The present inventor has appreciated that not all of the air in each breath is available
   for 02 and C02 gas exchange as a result of the dead space in the lungs, nose and
   throat. Dead space volume is an important buffer between arterial C02 and the
10 atmospheric C02 which has very low levels of C02. Without the dead space, the PC0         2
   would quickly fall below the apneic threshold.
   When a person breathes through the mouth, the dead space volume decreases as the
   nasal passages are no longer part of the ventilation route. This allows more C02 to be
   lost such that there becomes an imbalance between metabolic C02 and exhaled C02.
15 This loss of C02 raises the pH. Continual mouth breathing will raise the pH to levels at
   which the kidneys are engaged to return the pH to normal values as described above.
   The present inventor believes that for this reason, the homeostatic set point for habitual
   mouth breathers may be reset such that ventilation is stimulated at PC0    2 levels below
   40 mm Hg as described above.
20 The present inventor has recognised that mouth breathers may suffer from many of the
   symptoms and complications of HVS. This link between mouth breathing and
   homeostatic set point has not been recognised by those of skill in the art of DSA's.
   This is clear from the fact that the major types of DSA may exacerbate symptoms of
   SDB such as chronic tiredness and fatigue. A person may stop snoring due to the
25 physical movement of the tongue away from the airway but the person will still be tired.
   For example, DSA's of the MAD type that open up the airway and encourage
   unrestricted mouth breathing, although increases 02 intake allows more metabolic C02
   to be excreted. As discussed above, this increases blood pH and reduces oxygen that
   is available to the cells. A person may feel short of breath despite having sufficient
30 oxygen in the blood stream. This clearly contraindicates to a good night's rest. Such
   people will still be tired upon waking.
   In mouth breathing (and other oral myofunctional disorders) the relevant muscles of the
   face and mouth have been programmed to help a person breathe in a dysfunctional
                                                 11

   manner. When the devices are removed, the person simply reverts immediately to
   mouth breathing.
   Currently, the only way to actually stop mouth breathing is through myofunctional
   therapy so as to retrain the muscles to function in new ways. Myofunctional therapy
 5 includes facial and tongue exercises and behavior modification techniques to promote
   proper tongue position, improved breathing, chewing, and swallowing. Myofunctional
   therapy requires strict compliance with the exercises set by the myofunctional therapist
   and regular therapeutic sessions. Not all patients, and in particular children, are
   compliant.
10 Forcing mouth breathers to nasal breath in their sleep by completely blocking the
   mouth has been proposed. The simplest approach merely tapes the mouth together.
   Chin straps that prevent the mouth from opening are also well known. Tongue
   retaining devices that extend the tongue forward between the lips also prevents or
   significantly reduces mouth breathing. However, such an abrupt solution plays no part
15 in retraining breathing habits.
   These devices that do not permit mouth breathing and force nasal breathing are
   equally as ineffective and disadvantageous in treating snoring and SDB as MADs but
   for a different reason. Taping the mouth or inserting a device that prevents mouth
   breathing may appear to address the problem of snoring caused by mouth breathing.
20 Superficially, this may appear to be not only a viable solution but also advantageous
   given the known benefits of nasal breathing such as providing moist, filtered air to the
   lungs and avoiding a dry mouth.
   However, as discussed above, the present inventor has recognised that habitual mouth
   breathers may have their homeostatic set point to stimulate ventilation at PCO 2 levels
25 below the normal level of about 40mm Hg and insufficient blood buffering capacity.
   Forced nasal breathing will suddenly increase the dead space volume and suddenly
   increase PCO 2 . This will quickly lower the blood pH and the respiratory system will be
   stimulated to increase ventilation rate i.e. to hyperventilate so as to "blow off" excess
   C0  2 , which the body would normally do to exhale excess metabolic CO2 during exercise.
30 In other words, the person will over breath, to keep PCO 2 at below normal levels which
   in turn is associated with higher pH and lower oxygen availability. When the device is
   removed during the day, the person will revert to mouth breathing, which will maintain a
   normal blood pH.
                                               12

   The disclosed method acts first by regulating and controlling the volume of air that is
   inhaled and exhaled through the mouth by means of the breathing holes in the
   appliances. The first appliance has a cross sectional area for breathing that is reduced
   when compared to the cross sectional area for breathing without the appliance. This
 5 reduces the volume of air that is exchanged with each breath, thereby decreasing the
   amount of C02 that is exhaled allowing metabolic PC0        2 to increase. This lowers the pH,
   thereby allowing more oxygen to be released to the cells.
   Whilst not wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that this gradual step wise
10 increase in C02 levels may reset the homeostatic set point so as eventually restore a
   normal breathing pattern, normal PC0      2 and buffering capacity of the blood.
   As discussed above habitual mouth breathers may have a homeostatic set point that has
   been reset to stimulate ventilation at a lower value, such that such a person has a lower
15 PC0    2 than normal. As a result of the kidneys excreting bicarbonate buffer, the buffering
   capability of the blood has been reduced and is less able to tolerate pH change than for
   normal blood having a normal bicarbonate content.
   If a lowered PC0 2 level approaches the apneic level, the person will pause breathing for
20 a period of time of breathing will become overly shallow.            Both events results in an
   increase in C02 to increase to a level where ventilation is stimulated and the person will
   arouse or wake as breathing recommences.
   An apneic event is defined where there is a pause in breathing for at least ten seconds.
25 A hypopneic event is associated with a decrease in oxygen levels by 3 or 4 percent or
   an arousal or awakening from sleep.
   By providing a relatively small decrease in the volume of air available for exchange with
30 atmospheric air, metabolic C02 rises and triggers a series of physiological and
   biochemical responses. First, the relatively small increase in PC0          2 and subsequent
   small increase in acid favours available oxygen to the cells. It is believed that, this small
   increase may not significantly exceed the limited blood buffering capacity such that the
   pH does not lower sufficiently to significantly stimulate increased ventilation that will blow
35 off more C02. A small increase in PC0        2 also slightly raises the levels of bicarbonate
   buffer that can accommodate further increases in PC0 2 . Because the pH change is
   subtle, the kidneys are not stimulated to excrete bircarbonate.
                                                  13

   That such a complex biochemical and physiological response can be initiated by the
   disclosed functional oral appliance and methods has never been contemplated in the art
   and is indeed a surprising result. Functional oral appliances as used in the myofunctional
 5 arts of correcting malocclusions and in the sleep disorder breathing art     are designed
   for pure physical manipulation of the dentition and orofacial musculature.
   Whilst not wishing to be bound by theory, the present inventor believes that the step wise
   reduction in breathing holes of the appliance used in each treatment step, slowly allows
10 and encourages the patient to start breathing through the nose. This stepwise manner
   also assists in retraining and strengthening the orofacial muscles such as the lip muscles
   that keep the mouth closed.
   The upper and lower dental arch receiving channels of the first and/or second oral
15 appliance may be configured so that when the appliance is worn in the mouth, the
   patient's mandible is advanced. This brings the tongue forward and may alleviate any
   obstruction of the pharyngeal airway. The degree of mandibular displacement, if present,
   may suitable decrease from the first to the second oral appliance. In some methods, the
   final stage oral appliance may have no mandibular displacement.
20
   Suitably, the degree of advancement is significantly less than conventional MAD's that
   advance the mandible 50% to 75% of the maximum degree of protection of about 7mm
   to about 12mm.        The purpose of this extent of advancement is to increase the
   oropharyngeal airspace and increase the overall airflow.
25
   The degree of mandibular advancement in the first stage appliance is suitably less than
   5mm that is the minimum recommended by the AADSM and is most suitably between
   about 1 to about 3mm. This brings the tongue forward sufficiently such that the tongue
   does not block the airway. The aim of the present appliances is to control air flow not
30 maximise air flow. As described above, maximising unrestricted airflow has adverse
   effects on a patient's breathing pattern.
   In further embodiments, any one or more of the stages of treatment may further include
   wearing the oral appliance whilst awake. This may enhance the effect of regulating
35 breathing and training the transition. Suitable times for wearing the appliance during the
   day or evening when the patient is awake is between about 20 minutes to about four
   hours, suitably between about one to about three hours, more suitably between about
                                                14

   one to about two hours. It will be appreciated that wearing an appliance for the treatment
   of SDB whilst a patient is awake would appear to a person in light of the current SDB
   appliance treatment therapies to be illogical and ineffective. In fact, that a person does
   not wear a conventional MAD during the day is considered desirable so as to reduce
 5 side effects and to provide relief to the TMJ. Many MAD patients report TMJ soreness
   in the mornings and a noticeable change in bite.
   The present inventor has also observed that mouth breathing in children can have
10 significant and serious consequences on facial growth alterations and/or orofacial
   muscle tone that can predispose a child and the eventual adult to SDB.
   It may be appreciated that there are considerable adverse health effects that are caused
   by mouth breathers who may not yet exhibit SDB symptoms. It is therefore desirable to
15 be able to train a mouth breather, who does not exhibit SBD symptoms, to change their
   breathing pattern from oral to nasal.
   The present disclosure therefore also relates to a method of training a person to breath
   primarily through their nose, the method comprising the steps of;
20
   (a) providing a set of oral appliances comprising a first and at least a second oral
   appliance, wherein each of the first and at least second oral appliances comprises;
           a generally U shaped appliance body with a front and two arms, the appliance
   body including an inner wall and an outer wall;
25         a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
   section and two arms with trailing ends;
           each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
   the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
           each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
30 the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
           wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
   cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
   first appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
   oral appliance;
35
   (b) causing the patient to wear the first oral appliance in a first treatment stage whilst
   sleeping for a first period of time; and
                                                15

   (c) causing the patient to wear the second oral appliance in a second treatment stage
   whilst sleeping for a second period of time.
 5 If SBD symptoms have appeared such as the tongue partially blocking the pharyngeal
   airway during sleep upper and lower dental arch receiving channels of the first and/or
   second oral appliance may be configured so that when the appliance is worn in the
   mouth, the patient's mandible advanced. This brings the tongue forward and may
   alleviate any obstruction of the pharyngeal airway.            The degree of mandibular
10 displacement, if present, may suitable decrease from the first to the second oral
   appliance. In some methods, the final stage oral appliance may have no mandibular
   displacement.
   If SBD symptoms have not yet occurred, it may not be necessary for any appliances in
15 the set for use in the above method to advance the mandible.
   All the appliances for use in the above methods include a web interconnecting the inner
   wall and the outer wall which is positioned between the dentition on the upper and the
   lower arches when the oral appliance is fitted within the patient's mouth. Thus the web
20 lies broadly in the occlusal plane between the dentition of the upper and the lower arches
   in use.
   The web of at least the first appliance is suitably dimensioned so as to prevent the lips
   from closing over the breathing holes. In the first and second stage appliances. This is
25 important for ensuring the control of the volume of air that is being breathed through the
   mouth. The web dimensions may decrease with subsequent appliances as the patient is
   trained towards nasal breathing.         In the final stage appliance, the web may be
   dimensioned such that the patient may be able to close their lips over the breathing
   holes. This allows the patient to have some control in the final stages of treatment. In
30 these final stages, the patient's PCO 2 and buffering capacity will be approaching normal
   levels, the orofacial muscles will have been retrained for nasal breathing and the patient
   will proceed to close the lips when over the final stage appliance and fully mouth breathe.
   When the appliance is removed, the patient will continue to nasal breathe.
35 The web suitably thickens from the front of the web to a point towards the trailing ends
   of the arms. This tends to fill in the space between the teeth of the upper and lower jaw.
                                                 16

   This in some respects resembles an airfoil and thickens the web. This arrangement puts
   more pressure on the rear molars thereby relaxing and exercising the joints and muscles.
   Suitably, the thickened portions of the web are compressible. Compression may be
 5 achieved by providing a section of softer or more compressible material.         Suitably
   compression is achieved by providing one or more holes through the trailing ends of the
   arms of the web.
   The combination of the airfoil shape and the ability to compress that part of the web
10 between the rear molars can alleviate TMJ pain and other discomfort that is felt by users
   of conventional rigid devices.       For example many prior art MAD devices of the
   mouthguard type are similar to mouth guards of the boil and bite type. These are well
   known and are formed of a heat deformable plastic such as ethylene vinyl acetate in
   which the guards are user molded to the shape of a user's teeth and arch.
15
   Further still the ability to compress the web allows movement of the users jaws relative
   to each other, further alleviating discomfort and more importantly by allowing such
   movement allows for oral muscle retraining and development.
20 The compressible hole may also serve a double function as a breathing hole.
   The inner wall of the appliance includes an upper portion which projects above the web
   and a lower portion which depends from the web, when the appliance is fitted in the
   patient's mouth.
25
   The inner wall may have two major surfaces, namely a lingual surface which faces inward
   towards the tongue, and a channel surface which faces outward into the arch receiving
   channels.
30 The outer wall may also have two major surfaces, namely a buccal surface which faces
   outward towards the buccal mucosa, and a channel surface which faces into the arch
   receiving channels.
   Suitably, the inner and outer walls are dimensioned such that may be retained within the
35 oral cavity when the patient is asleep with the mouth open.
                                               17

   As the walls define upper and lower channels for receiving a dental arch, the inner and
   outer walls include a front portion and two arm portions extending away from the front
   portion.
 5 The front portion of the inner wall may incline rearward away from the outer wall as it
   extends up from the web. This angle of inclination is suitably selected to adopt the natural
   curvature of the palate so as to provide comfort when wearing the appliance.
   The appliance may include a tongue tag formed in the upper portion of the inner wall,
10 e.g. substantially centrally on the inner wall, or substantially midway along the inner wall,
   corresponding to the midline of the patient's dentition.
   The inner wall may form a circumferential edge around the tongue tag and the
   circumferential edge may be rounded. In particular the circumferential edge may be
15 rounded where the tongue opening transitions from a position inside the opening onto
   the lingual and channel surfaces of the inner wall.
   The tongue tag may serve as an indicator for the correct positioning of the tongue in a
   forward position to enlarge a restricted airway. The tongue tag will be discussed further
20 below.
   The appliance body may be formed from a polymeric material. In particular the appliance
   body is formed from a polymeric material that is polyurethane or silicone, e.g. by injection
   moulding.
25
   Silicone is particularly suitable as it is pliable and does not require moulding to a user's
   teeth.   This may improve comfort; allow the user some jaw movement that will also
   contribute to user comfort and thus compliance.
30 The appliance body may be made in a number of different sizes and the sizes may be
   selected so that a majority of the population can select an appliance that can be fitted
   over their upper arch with a reasonable fit. Typically there may be three to four different
   sizes of the appliance body.
35 The method uses a set of two or more appliances with a staged reduction on cross
   sectional area for breathing. The breathing holes are in the web of the appliance. The
                                                   18

   first stage appliance may have 2-4 relatively large breathing holes at the front. One or
   more breathing holes may also be located towards the rear of the web.
   In addition to allowing breathing, the air holes provide a degree of flex that allows gentle
 5 compression of the jaw joints.
   The second appliance suitably has a similar number of holes. Alternatively, the number
   of holes may be reduced.
10 Suitably for both methods as disclosed above, the methods further include providing at
   least a third oral appliance, wherein the further appliance(s) are for use in further stages
   of treatment and in each stage of treatment the cross sectional area available for
   breathing is reduced.
15 Suitably the treatments are in 3 to 6 stages with 3 to 6 appliances, each appliance with
   reducing air breathing cross sectional area.
   Thus with successive appliances, less overall volume of air is inhaled. A final stage
   appliance may have one or two holes with a width or diameter of 1mm or less. In some
20 methods, the last stage appliance may have no breathing holes at all.
   In some aspects of either of the above methods, the thickness of the web may decrease
   with successive appliances. The thickness of the web to some extent determines how
   far the jaws are held apart by the appliance. Decreasing the thickness of the web, allows
25 for the jaws to get closer over the treatment regime towards being fully closed for nasal
   breathing.
   The upper and lower arch receiving channels may be configured so that when worn, the
   mandible is advanced. In some embodiments, the methods may use appliances in which
30 the degree of mandibular advancement decreases together with the total cross sectional
   area for breathing.
   Where a tongue tag is present and the tongue is positioned on the tongue tag which may
   counter the retractive action of the appliance on the upper jaw. In some cases, this may
35 advance the upper jaw.
                                                19

   Suitably at least the first stage appliance has a tongue tag with a diaphragm like
   characteristic, to initially "suck" the tongue tip upwards and forwards to enlarge the
   restricted airway
 5 The diaphragm tongue tag may progressively get thinner with each stage of appliance
   and in some embodiments may eventually become a hole for receiving the tip of the
   tongue.
   As a result of the combined action of the mandibular advancement and bringing the
10 tongue forward, less mandibular advancement may be required with the appliances and
   methods herein disclosed than with conventional MAD appliances. This may reduce the
   side effects and allow the presently disclosed appliances to be safely used on adults and
   children.
15 The stages of treatment may depend upon a number of factors such as the age of the
   patient, the degree of mouth breathing and the severity of the SDB. The appliances
   should be worn in the mouth.
   Suitably, the stages may vary between 1 to 3 months. The total treatment may be up to
20 one to two years. Progress of treatment may be monitored by a health professional.
   Known methods of monitoring SDB include measuring the apnea-hypopnea index, or
   AHI.    AHI is an index used to assess the severity of sleep apnea based on the total
   number of complete cessations (apnea) and partial obstructions (hypopnea) of breathing
   occurring per hour of sleep; blood oxygen saturation and assessing day time sleepiness
25
   However, in view of the current novel approaches herein disclosed, it is believed to be
   more suitable to measure a patient's PC0 2 prior to commencing treatment and to monitor
   PC0   2  during treatment and the next stage of treatment commences when a
   predetermined PC0     2 has  been obtained.
30
   Any suitable method of measuring PC0       2 may be employed. One method of assessing
   PC0   2 is by capnography that reads the level of C02 in expired air (end-tidal C02) by
   infra-red spectroscopy. Another method is transcutaneous monitoring that is done by an
   infrared transducer applied to the skin.
35
   In some cases, a patient and/or practitioner may not have access to the equipment
   required for such measurement. The time that a person can hold their breath has been
                                                20

   proposed as an indirect measure of PC0 2. The breathing holding time (BHT) technique
   measures in seconds the time a person can comfortably hold their breath after
   exhalation.
 5 Persons with breathing disorders generally have a BHT of about 20 seconds or less.
   This generally correlates to a PC0    2 of about 30mm Hg to 35mm mm Hg or less. Those
   with a normal breathing pattern have a BHT of 60 seconds or longer, that generally
   correlates to a normal PC0    2 of about 40mm Hg.
10 One possibility for such a correlation is that as discussed above the blood of a person
   with a breathing disorder often has a low blood buffering capacity. Holding one's breath
   allows metabolic C02 to increase. For a person with a low blood buffering capacity
   holding breath will cause a rapid decrease in pH that stimulates the respiratory center to
   breath.
15
   Assessment of the PC0     2 prior to commencement of treatment provides a base line BHT
   and may also be used to assess the appliance breathing hole cross section that may be
   used in the first stage of treatment. For example, a person with a CP of 20 seconds or
   lower will most usually begin with an appliance having the largest holes, generally an
20 appliance having four breathing holes that are 5mm to 10 mm wide or, if circular, in
   diameter. A person with a BHT of 40 seconds may begin treatment with an appliance
   having smaller holes.
   Suitably, BHT will be measured periodically after commencement of treatment. Within
25 about one to three months an improvement in PC0         2 should be observed. Generally
   when the BHT has increased to between about 30 to about 40 seconds, the patient will
   begin using the second stage appliance.
   The BHT will continue to be monitored and when it reaches about 40 to about 50
30 seconds, the patient will begin using the third stage appliance and continue to do so until
   BHT reaches about 60 seconds that is considered normal.
   In further embodiments, any one or more of the stages of treatment may further include
   wearing the oral appliance whilst awake. This may enhance the effect of regulating
35 breathing and training the transition. Suitable times for wearing the appliance when
   awake include between about 20 minutes to about four hours, suitably between about
   one to about three hours, more suitably between about one to about 2 hours.
                                                 21

   In one aspect, at least one of the appliances is made from a flexible base material such
   as silicone and has one or more breathing holes at the front of the appliance that can be
   compressed when the user bites down onto the web, whereby the holes are configured
 5 such that it is not possible to fully close the breathing holes. Suitably, the or each hole
   is configured for a maximum compression that reduces the passive cross sectional area
   for breathing to a predetermined compressed cross sectional area for breathing. Suitably
   the compressed cross sectional area for breathing is no than about 80%, suitably by
   more than 70%, suitably by no more than 60%, suitably by no more than 50%, suitably
10 by no more than 40% of the passive cross sectional area for breathing.
   One suitable configuration of breathing hole may include two opposed and spaced apart
   projections extending from the upper and lower wall of the hole.            As the hole is
   compressed such that the upper and lower hole walls are pushed together, the
15 projections will eventually meet and prevent further compression.          The person can
   continue to breathe through the spaces on either side of the abutted projections.
   An advantage of this arrangement is that the holes cannot be fully closed so as to prevent
   the patient from breathing through their mouth. As explained above, a sudden increase
20 in PC0   2 can stimulate hyperventilation.
   Consciously compressing the holes and reducing the cross sectional area for breathing,
   can facilitate transition to the next stage appliance.      Suitably the compressed cross
   sectional area is close to that of the next stage appliance.
25
   The ability to bitedown to compress the or each hole can also actively and consciously
   train nasal breathing.
   The compressible nature of the holes allows a person to actively and consciously
30 decrease the cross sectional area for breathing when they are wearing the appliance
   when awake. This would normally be done on the first stage device after about one to
   three months of treatment, when the patients PC0     2 has increased, as would be generally
   indicated by an increase in BHT.
35 Appliances in the further stages of treatment can similarly be provided with a hole or
   holes having a predetermined maximum degree of compression.
                                                 22

   A person who normally nasal breathes with a closed mouth has lips that seal against
   each other easily with non-forceful movement. This requires the muscles of the lips and
   cheek to be efficient with normal muscle tone. On the other hand, the lips and cheeks
   of mouth breathers generally have poor muscle tone (hypotonic) that makes it difficult to
 5 make and maintain an efficient lip seal.        An efficient lip seal is important for nasal
   breathing.
   As discussed above, the width of the web that controls the bite reduces from the widest
   in the first stage appliance and the patient gradually moves the lips towards a closed
10 position. Over the treatment period the muscles of the lips and cheeks are trained
   towards being able to form a lip seal, even when the patient is asleep.
   Another disadvantage of mouth breathing, as discussed above, is that as the mandible
   drops, tongue position drops so as to allow the person to breathe through the mouth.
15 Nasal breathing places the tongue in the correct position that is pressed against the roof
   of the mouth. This promotes suction that assists in an efficient mouth seal.
   As discussed above in one embodiment, the disclosed appliance has a tongue tag for
   assistance in training a patient to correctly position their tongue.
20 Training of the tongue and lips as discussed above is essentially passive. Generally, as
   discussed above, the patient will also undergo myofunctional therapy to retrain the lips
   and tongue.
   The patient is told to compress the compressible member with the lips, thereby improving
   competency of the lips. Suitably, the patient would compress the member for about 10
25 to about 60 seconds.
   Also described herein is a set of oral appliances for use in a method of treating sleep
   disorder breathing in a patient, the set of oral appliances comprising a first oral appliance
   and at least a second oral appliance, wherein each of the first oral appliance and at least
30 second oral appliance comprise;
           a generally U shaped appliance body with a front and two arms, the appliance
   body including an inner wall, an outer wall;
           a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
   section and two arms with trailing ends;
35         each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
   the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
                                                 23

            each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
   the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
            wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
   cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
 5 first oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
   oral appliance.
   The upper and lower dental arch receiving channels of the first and/or second oral
   appliance may be configured so that when the appliance is worn in the mouth, the
10 patient's mandible is advanced. This brings the tongue forward and may alleviate any
   obstruction of the pharyngeal airway. The degree of mandibular displacement, if present,
   may suitable decrease from the first to the second oral appliance. In some aspects, the
   final stage oral appliance may have no mandibular displacement.
15 Further disclosed is a set of oral appliances for use in training a person to breath primarily
   through their nose, the set of appliances comprising a first oral appliance and at least a
   second oral appliance, wherein each of the first and at least second appliance comprises;
             a generally U shaped appliance body with a front and two arms, the appliance
   body including an inner wall, an outer wall;
20          a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
   section and two arms with trailing ends;
            each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
   the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
            each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
25 the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
            wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
   cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
   first oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
   oral appliance.
30
   The upper and lower dental arch receiving channels of the first and/or second oral
   appliance may be configured so that when the appliance is worn in the mouth, the
   patient's mandible is advanced. This brings the tongue forward and may alleviate any
   obstruction of the pharyngeal airway. The degree of mandibular displacement, if present,
35 may suitable decrease from the first oral appliance to the second oral appliance. In some
   aspects, the final stage oral appliance may have no mandibular displacement.
                                                   24

                                 DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   Figure 1 is a top front perspective view of one aspect of a first stage oral appliance as
   disclosed herein;
 5 Figure 2 is a rear top perspective view of the first stage oral appliance shown in Figure
   1;
   Figure 3 is a front view of the first stage oral appliance shown in figure 1;
   Figure 4 is a rear view of the first stage oral appliance shown in Figure 1;
   Figure 5 is a front perspective view of a second stage oral appliance;
10 Figure 6 is a front view of the second stage oral appliance shown in Figure 5;
   Figure 7 is a rear view of the second stage oral appliance shown in Figure 5;
   Figure 8 is a rear perspective view of a third stage oral appliance;
   Figure 9 is a front view of the third stage appliance shown in Figure 8;
   Figure 10 is a rear view of the third stage appliance shown in Figure 8;
15 Figure 11 is a cross section of the first stage appliance as shown in Figure 1;
   Figure 12 is a cross section of the second stage appliance as shown in Figure 5;
   Figure 13 is a cross section of the third stage appliance as shown in figure 8;
   Figure 14 is a front view of a further embodiment of an oral appliance in a first hole
   configuration and
20 Figure 15 is a front view of the oral appliance shown in Figure 14 in a second hole
   configuration.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
25 An oral appliance and methods in accordance with this invention may manifest itself in a
   variety of forms. It will be convenient to hereinafter describe several embodiments of the
   invention in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The purpose of
   providing this detailed description is to instruct persons having an interest in the subject
   matter of the invention how to carry the invention into practical effect. However it is to be
30 clearly understood that the specific nature of this detailed description does not supersede
   the generality of the preceding broad disclosure.
   Figures 1 to 4 show perspective and front and rear views of an appliance 30 that is
   suitably a first stage appliance. The appliance 30 is made of medical grade silicone that
35 is a rubber material that is flexible and comfortable in the mouth.
                                                 25

   The appliance 30 includes an appliance body for mounting over the upper arch of a user.
   The appliance body includes an inner wall 34 that is positioned on a lingual side of the
   patient's upper arch and an outer wall 36 that is positioned on the buccal side thereof.
   The appliance body also includes a web 28 interconnecting the inner wall 34 and the
 5 outer wall 36. When the appliance 30 is in the mouth of a user, the web 28 lies in the
   occlusal plane between the dentition of the upper and the lower arches in use.
   The inner and outer wall 34 and 36 and web 28 define upper and lower arch receiving
   channels 40 and 42 within which respectively the upper arch and associated dentition
10 and the lower arch and associated dentition can be received.
   The inner wall 34 includes an upper portion 35 which projects up from the web 28 and a
   lower portion 37 which projects down from the web 28. Similarly the outer wall 36
   comprises an upper portion 39 above the web 28 and a lower portion 41 below the web
15 38. Further the inner wall 34 has a lingual surface 46 and a channel surface 48.
   The outer wall 36 has a front buccal surface 72 that is dimensioned so that it substantially
   covers the buccal aspects of the upper and lower posterior teeth when the mouth is
   closed. In this way any force from overactive lip muscles can be dispersed over the
20 surface 72 rather than applied to the teeth.
   The inner wall 34 defines a tongue tag 60 for locating the tip of a patient's tongue. The
   tongue tag 60 is formed substantially centrally in the upper portion 35 of the inner wall
   34 corresponding to the midline of the patient's dentition.
25
   The inner 34 and outer 36 walls include a frontal portion 51 and two arm portions 53, 55
   extending away from the frontal portion 51. The frontal portion 51 of the inner wall 34
   inclines rearwardly away from the outer wall 36 as it extends up from the web 28 at an
   angle of about 30 to 40 degrees. In particular a region of the inner wall 34 within which
30 the tongue tag 60 is formed may incline rearward at an angle of 30 to 40 degrees.
   The tongue tag 60 has a circular thinned diaphragm section 61 that can move in and out
   in response to pressure exerted by the tongue. When the tip of the tongue presses on
   and deforms the diaphragm, a slight suction is produced that can assist in keeping the
35 tip of the tongue on the tongue tag.
                                                26

   The lower portion of the inner wall 34 includes a tongue elevator 70 (shown in figures 2
   and 4). The inner wall 34 has a lower terminal edge region 52 and the lower terminal
   edge region is thickened to form the tongue elevator 70. The tongue elevator 70 forces
   the tongue to hold an upwards position that assists in bringing the tongue forward so as
 5 to open the airway.
   The frontal portion 51 has four equally spaced breathing holes 80 located therein
   Each arm of the web 28 also has a single hole 74 towards the trailing ends of the arms
   53, 54. These holes will be discussed further below.
10
   The hole(s) 74 in the arms of the web 28 not only assist in breathing but provide a degree
   of compression to that part of the web.        This provides a degree of cushioning and
   resilience that not only provides comfort to the patient, but allows the patient to slightly
   move the teeth relative to each other. This can reduce the discomfort felt by wearing a
15 rigid inflexible MAD device. Movement also allows exercise of orofacial muscles that is
   important in retraining the patient to nasal breathe.
   Figures 5 to 7 show a second stage oral appliance 100. The same reference numerals
   will be used to describe the same features of the first stage appliance 30. In the second
20 stage appliance the four holes 80 in the front thereof, have a total cross sectional area
   that is less than that of the first stage appliance It may be seen that instead of a single
   side hole, there is a series of four side holes 74 such that the cross sectional area for
   breathing of the side holes is less than that of the single side hole of the first stage
   appliance.
25
   Figure s 8 to 10 show a third stage appliance 110 that has two small front breathing
   holes, thereby having a lower total cross sectional area for breathing through as
   compared to the first and second stage appliances the third stage appliance does not
   have any side holes.
30
   Figures 11, 12 and 13 are cross sections of the respective first stage 30, second stage
   100 and third stage 110 appliances.         These cross sections show further important
   differences between the appliances. These differences are (1) the thickness t1, t2, t3 of
   the web 28 at the front of the appliance; (2) the relative alignment of the upper 40 and
35 lower 42 dental arch receiving channels; (3) the respective overall depth of the
   appliances d1, d2, d3 and the distance between the tongue elevator 70 and the top of
   the upper dental arch receiving channel 40.
                                                 27

   The thickness of the web 28 decreases from the first stage, through to the third stage
   appliance i e. t1 >t2 >t3. It will be appreciated that the thickness of the web 28 influences
   the openness of a patient's bite, or vertical dimension of opening. The first stage device
 5 typically has a web thickness t1 of about 3mm to about 10mm, typically between about
   4mm to about 6mm. In one aspect t3 is about 5.5mm. This thickness also accommodates
   the size of the four larger holes 80 that are typically between about 5mm to about 10mm
   in width.
10 The vertical dimension of opening is such that the patient cannot close their lips. It is
   important that the amount of air that is exchanged in one breath is controlled. If for some
   reason, the patient closes their mouth then the PCO 2 will rise significantly above the
   patient's reset homeostatic set point which will increase ventilation to expel further CO 2 .
   This is clearly counterproductive as the eventual aim is to return PC0      2 to normal.
15
   The second stage appliance 110 has a web thickness t2 that is smaller than t1 and is
   suitably between about 2mm to about 5, typically between about 2.5 to about 3.5mm. In
   one aspect, t2 is about 3mm. This thickness is consistent with the decrease in size of
   the breathing holes. As discussed below, at this stage a patient will be starting to partially
20 nasal breath.
   The third stage appliance 110 has a minimal web 28 thickness t3 of between about 1mm
   to about 4mm, typically between about 2mm to about 3mm. In one aspect t3 is about
   2.5mm . This thickness allows the patient to close their lips and fully nasal breathe. The
25 two small holes 80 allow minimal mouth breathing if the lips are not closed. As the patient
   begins to nasal breath further, closure of the lips will become patient controlled.
   The second physical parameter of the respective appliances is the relative alignment of
   the upper 40 and lower 42 dental receiving arches.            This alignment determines the
30 degree of mandibular displacement, if at all.
   The upper 40 and lower 42 arch receiving channels of the first stage appliance 30 are
   essentially in alignment. This provides for mandibular advancement of about 1mm to
   about 3mm.       The second stage appliance 100 has a lesser degree of mandibular
35 advancement of about 2mm or less.
   The third stage appliance allows for normal occlusion.
                                                  28

   The third difference is the depth of the appliance and the distance between the tongue
   elevator 70 and the top of the upper dental arch receiving channel 40. As discussed
   above, correct forward positioning of the tongue is important for nasal breathing and
 5 proper facial musculature. The tongue elevator 70 raises the tongue slightly towards the
   more desirable position.     When transitioning from the first 30 through to the third
   appliance 110, the position of the tongue is moved upwards towards the maxilla. This
   can assist in expanding the maxilla, with a concomitant increase in nasal passage size.
10 The distance d1 in the first stage appliance 30 is generally between about 25mm and
   about 35mm, typically between about 27mm and about 32mm. In one aspect d1 is about
   30.8mm.
   The distance d2 in the second stage appliance 100 is generally between about 21 to
15 about 31 mm, typically between about 23mm to about 28mm. In one aspect d2 is about
   26.7mm.
   The distance d3 in the third stage appliance 110 like generally between about 19mm to
   about 29mm, typically between about 21mm to about 26mm. In one aspect d3 is about
20 25mm.
   The three different stage appliances may be used in a method for treating SDB in a
   patient.
25 Such a patient will generally show symptoms similar to that of HVS. The patient's PC0     2
   will generally be below normal, the level of bicarbonate buffer in the blood will be
   depleted, thereby making the patient more sensitive to a change in pH caused by an
   increase in PC0 2. The blood pH will be higher than normal, thereby favouring the affinity
   of haemoglobin for 02 and the patient is tired, despite a night's sleep.
30
   Prior to treatment, PC0   2 will be evaluated, typically by the use of CP, although other
   known methods of evaluating PC0      2 may be used. A typical patient would generally have
   a CP of about 20 seconds or less. This generally correlates to a PC0      2 of about 30mm
   Hg to 35mm Hg or less.
35
   The patient begins to wear the first stage appliance nightly and suitably for a period
   during the day for about 1 to 2 hours. Wearing of the first stage appliance and breathing
                                                29

   through the holes in the appliance reduces the volume of air that is exchanged in each
   breath. This reduces the amount of metabolic C02 that is exhaled, thereby allowing
   metabolic C02 levels and PC0 2 to increase.
 5
   PC0   2 levels therefore rise, in a manner that is controlled by the cross sectional area of
   the breathing holes.        By providing a relatively small decrease in the volume of air
   available for exchange with atmospheric air as compared to unrestricted mouth
   breathing, metabolic C02 rises and triggers a series of physiological and biochemical
10 responses in a specific manner.
   First, the relatively small increase in PC0      2 and subsequent small increase in carbonic
   acid levels lowers blood pH that favours available oxygen to the cells. A small increase
   in PC0   2 also slightly raises the levels of bicarbonate buffer that can accommodate further
15 increases in PC0 2 . It will be appreciated that the PC0       2 will be within or just above the
   lowered homeostatic set point such that the bodies' homeostasis response will not be or
   if so not significantly stimulated to increase ventilation so as to eliminate C02.
   The patient should begin to feel more refreshed after a night's sleep as a result of an
20 increase in 02 availability to the cells.
   With a gradual increase in PC0       2 that does not significantly reduce pH so as to stimulate
   hyperventilation, bicarbonate buffer levels rise, thereby allowing the body to tolerate
   increasing PC0 2 towards normal levels without simulating ventilation.
25
   PC0   2 is monitored during this time, suitably by measuring PC. As the body is able to
   tolerate more C02, the person can hold their breath longer despite the increase in
   metabolic C02 and CP rises.
30 A further effect of the first stage appliance is physical in there is a limited degree of
   mandibular advancement of about 2 - 3 mm or less. This advancement is significantly
   less than art known MAD devices that extend the mandible to between about 7mm and
   about 12mm.
35 Mandibular advancement for a person having a normal bite will put some strain on the
   TMJ.     The flexibility of the silicone material allows some relative movement of the
   mandible that may at least partially alleviate such strain.              However, this strain is
                                                    30

   significantly less than the art known MAD devices. Common side effects of art known
   MAD devices include TMJ discomfort or pain and myofascial pain.                  Long term
   advancement can cause TMJ damage and dysfunction.
 5 It is known that mandibular advancement causes a reciprocal retraction of the maxilla.
   As the lateral walls of the nasal cavity are mainly defined by the maxilla, retraction of the
   maxilla can reduce the size of the nasal cavity, thereby reducing tendency to nose breath
   and exacerbate the breathing disorder.
10 The present appliances include a tongue tag that trains the tongue in the correct forward
   position in which the tip is adjacent the anterior palate.      This forward position may
   reciprocate any retractive forces on the maxilla that is caused by the mandibular
   advancement. Forward tongue position also opens the pharyngeal airway.
15 The combination of forward tongue position and minimal mandibular advancement of the
   present appliances allows opening of the pharyngeal airway to extents comparable with
   known art MADs that significantly advance the mandible. Thus there is less strain on
   the TMJ with use of the present appliances than with art known MADs. This allows for
   more patient comfort which generally translates to higher patient compliance. This
20 location of the tongue also reciprocates retrusive action of the maxilla.
   Further any snoring may be less due to the opening of the pharyngeal airways by the
   combined mandibular advancement and placement of the tongue.
25 Through the first treatment stage, the patient should be beginning to train the tongue to
   the correct physiological position, the homeostasis systems can tolerate gradually
   increasing PC0   2 and the patient should start to breathe more through their nose, thereby
   increasing air volume dead space that decreases metabolic C02 elimination and further
   increasing PC0 2 towards a normal level.
30
   The Patient's PC0 2 will be monitored throughout this time, suitably by CP as discussed
   above. When the patient's BHT reaches between about 30 to about 40 seconds, the
   patient may advance to the second stage appliance.
35 In the second treatment stage, the second stage appliance will be worn by a patient
   every night for a further period of about 1 to 4 months and for a period of 1 to 2 hours
   during the day. As a result of further reduced air being inhaled through the mouth, the
                                                31

   patient will be required to breathe more through their nose with a further decrease in the
   C02   level in the exhaled air. Buffer levels will continue to increase towards normal levels,
   the body can tolerate more C02 and the associated pH favourable for cellular 02 delivery.
 5 The patient's BHT will be monitored and when it reaches between about 40 and about
   50 seconds, the third treatment stage will commence in which the patient wears the third
   stage appliance overnight and for period during the day. As a result of even further
   reduced air being inhaled through the mouth, the patient will be required to breathe even
   more through their nose with a further change in the C02 level in the exhaled air. The
10 patient will be beginning to feel the benefits of better oxygen supply to the body and
   beginning to approach a normal breathing pattern rather than hyperventilation.            The
   buffering capacity of the blood should be approaching normal.              Snoring should be
   noticeably reduced or absent.
15 The TMJ position is in the normal unstrained position.
   Third stage treatment will generally last for about 1 to about 4 months. CP is regularly
   monitored and when CP reaches a level of about 60 seconds, treatment may be
   withdrawn.
20
   After the final stage the patient's breathing mode should be retrained so that the patient
   can nose breathe without any appliance. During sleep, the tongue is in the forward
   position and will not fall back to obstruct the airway. The patient will no longer be required
   to wear a CPAP or a DSA.
25
   Figures 14 and 15 show an alternative appliance 200. The appliance is made from a
   soft silicone material that is compressible when the user bites down upon the appliance.
   Figure 14 shows the appliance in the uncompressed or passive configuration.
30 The appliance 200 has a single longitudinal breathing hole 202 at the front of the
   appliance, rather than a series of holes. The hole 202 is defined by an upper wall 204,
   a lower wall 206 and curved end walls 208. Each of the upper and lower walls 204, 206
   has opposed projections 210 that extend into the breathing hole 202.
35 Figure 15 shows the appliance 200 in the compressed state in which a user has bite
   down upon the appliance 200. This has the effect of compressing the web and drawing
   the upper and lower walls 204, 206 towards each other until the respective pairs of
                                                  32

   opposed projections abut each other and the web cannot be compressed any further.
   The respective pairs of abutted projections 210 define four smaller breathing holes 212.
   The cross sectional area of breathing of the four breathing holes 212 in the compressed
 5 configuration is about 50% of the cross sectional area for breathing of the breathing hole
   202 in the passive configuration.
   The cross sectional area for breathing in the compressed configuration is close to or is
   the same as the cross sectional area for breathing of the next stage appliance. After a
10 period of time of using the appliance without compression, the patient is taught to
   compress the holes for a period of time when awake. This reduces the amount of air
   that is being inhaled through the mouth and encourages nasal breathing.               This
   encourages a smooth transition to the next stage appliance.
15
   It may be appreciated that there are many surprising and unexpected advantages of the
   disclosed appliances and disclosed methods. The silicone appliances do not require boil
   and bite or custom fitting, they are flexible, comfortable and have a degree of
20 compression so as to alleviate stress on the TMJ. The tongue tag causes the tongue to
   project forward and therefore further assists in opening the pharyngeal airway. This may
   mean that it may not be necessary to over advance the mandible to the same extent as
   prior art MAD devices. This means that there is less discomfort and more importantly
   less likelihood of TMJ damage. The devices as disclosed herein may therefore be safely
25 used in children.
   Most importantly is that the presently disclosed appliances and methods allow for
   retraining a patient to breathe through the nose, thereby alleviating and addressing the
   underlying problem of SBD that is caused by and associated with mouth breathing.
30
   Even further, the disclosed appliances and methods allow the blood buffering ability and
   homeostatic set points to return to normal.         This addresses the hyperventilative
   symptoms. Blood pH is at the optimum level for release of 02 to the cells. Arterial
   diameter is also normal in return to a normal pH.
35
                                               33

   It will be appreciated that the present appliances can provide such benefits within about
   eight to about eighteen months of treatment.     This may be compared to long term and
   continued use that is required by art known MAD and tongue retaining devices.
 5 Whilst such devices may alleviate snoring by physically advancing the mandible and
   opening the airways and preventing airway collapse, they do nothing to increase 02
   supply to the cells.      A person wearing a MAD device will continue presenting
   hyperventilative symptoms. Ongoing use of such devices may result in TMJ damage,
   and changes in bite and occlusion.
10
   It will be appreciated that various changes and modifications may be made to the
   appliances and methods as disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope
   thereof.
                                                34

CLAIMS
1.        A method of treating sleep disorder breathing in a patient, the method comprising
the steps of;
(a) providing a set of oral appliances comprising a first and at least a second oral
appliance, wherein each of the first and at least second oral appliances comprises;
          a generally U shaped appliance body with a front section and two arms, the
appliance body including an inner wall, an outer wall;
          a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
section and two arms with trailing ends;
          each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
          each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
           wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
first oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
oral appliance;
(b) causing the patient to wear the first oral appliance in a first treatment stage whilst
sleeping for a first period of time; and
(c) causing the patient to wear the second oral appliance in a second treatment stage
whilst sleeping for a second period of time.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the patients' PC0         2 is assed prior to and during the
     first treatment stage.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the patient is assessed prior to treatment
     and during first stage treatment by measuring the time the patient can hold their
     breath after exhalation measured in seconds (BHT).
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the patients' BHT prior to the first treatment stage is
     about 20 seconds or less.

5. The method of claim 4, wherein when the patient's BHT reaches to between about
    30 seconds to about 40 seconds, the patient is caused to wear the second stage oral
    appliance for the second stage of treatment.
6. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the method further includes
    providing at least a third oral appliance for use in a third stage of treatment in which
    the total cross sectional area available for breathing in the third oral appliance is less
    than that of the total cross sectional area available for breathing in the second oral
    appliance.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein when the patient's BHT reaches to between about
    40 seconds to about 50 seconds, the patient is caused to wear the third stage oral
    appliance for the third stage of treatment.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein when the patient's BHT reaches between about 50
    to about 60 seconds, the treatment is terminated.
9.      The method of claim 6, wherein the web of the first stage oral appliance has a
web thickness that is suitably dimensioned so as to prevent a patient's lips from closing
over the mouth.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the web of the second stage oral appliance has
a thickness that is less than the web thickness of the first stage oral appliance.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the third stage oral appliance has a web
thickness that is suitably dimensioned so as to allow a patient's lips to close over the
mouth.
12.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the first oral appliance includes
a tongue elevator for lifting the tongue towards a patient's maxilla and a first distance is
defined between the tongue elevator and the upper arch receiving channel, the second
oral appliance includes a tongue elevator for lifting the tongue towards a patient's maxilla
and a second distance is defined between the tongue elevator and the upper arch
receiving channel and the first distance is greater than the second distance.
13.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein each arm of the web of the first
oral appliance has opposed sections that are compressible, each said section being
                                             36

towards a trailing end of each arm of the web and opposed section has at least one
compressible hole therethrough.
14.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the set of oral appliances
includes 3 to 6 appliances for use in 3 to 6 consecutive stages of treatment, each
appliance with a different total cross sectional breathing area, and the oral appliance
used in each stage of treatment has a total cross sectional breathing area that is less
than the total cross sectional breathing area than that used in a previous stage of
treatment.
15.      The method of claim 14, wherein the oral appliance used in the final stage of
treatment has breathing holes with a diameter or width of about 1mm or less.
16.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the upper and lower dental
arch receiving channels of the first oral appliance are configured so that when the oral
appliance is worn in the mouth, the patient's mandible is advanced to define a first degree
of mandibular advancement that is between about 1mm to about 3mm.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the upper and lower dental arch receiving
channels of the second oral appliance are configured so that when the oral appliance is
worn in the mouth, the patient's mandible is advanced to define a second degree of
mandibular advancement and the first degree of mandibular advancement is greater than
the second degree of mandibular advancement
18.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the upper portion of the inner
wall of the first oral appliance defines a tongue tag and the tongue tag includes a central
substantially rounded resilient section, the second oral appliance also has a tongue tag
with a rounded resilient section and the rounded resilient section of the second oral
appliance is thinner than the rounded resilient section of the first oral appliance.
19.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein any one or more stages of
treatment further includes wearing an oral appliance during the day when the patient is
awake for a period of time between about 1 to about 4 hours.
20.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the patient is a habitual mouth
breather prior to treatment.
                                              37

21.      The method of claim 20, wherein after termination of treatment, the patient has
been trained to breath primarily through the nose.
22.      A method of training a person to breathe primarily through their nose, the method
comprising the steps of;
(a) providing a set of oral appliances comprising a first and at least a second oral
appliance, wherein each of the first oral appliance and at least second oral appliances
comprises;
         a generally U shaped appliance body with a front and two arms, the appliance
body including an inner wall, an outer wall;
         a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall, the web having a front
section and two arms with trailing ends;
         each of the inner wall and outer wall have an upper portion that projects above
the web so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
         each of the inner wall and the outer wall have a lower portion that depends from
the web so as to define a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
          wherein the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total
cross sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the
first oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
oral appliance;
(b) causing the patient to wear the first oral appliance whilst sleeping for a first period of
time; and
(c) causing the patient to wear the second oral appliance whilst sleeping for a second
period of time.
23.      A set of oral appliances for treating sleep disorder breathing in a patient, the set
of oral appliances comprising a first oral appliance for use in a first stage of treatment
and at least a second oral appliance for use in at least a second stage of treatment,
wherein each of the first and at least second oral appliance comprises;
         a generally U shaped appliance body with a front section and two arms, the
appliance body including an inner, an outer wall;
         a web interconnecting the inner wall and the outer wall;
         the inner and outer walls each have an upper portion that projects above the web
so as to define an upper dental arch receiving channel;
                                                38

         the inner and outer walls each have a lower portion that depends below the web
that defines a lower dental arch receiving channel; and
         the web comprises at least one breathing hole so as to define a total cross
sectional area for breathing and the total cross sectional area for breathing of the first
oral appliance is larger than the total cross sectional area for breathing of the second
oral appliance.
24.      The set of oral appliances of claim 23, wherein the set further includes at least a
third oral appliance for use in a third stage of treatment in which the total cross sectional
area available for breathing in the third oral appliance is less than that of the total cross
sectional area available for breathing in the second oral appliance.
25.      The set of oral appliances of claim 24, wherein the web of at the first oral
appliance has a web thickness that is suitably dimensioned so as to prevent a patient's
lips from closing over the mouth, the second stage oral appliance has a web thickness
that is less than the web thickness of the first stage oral appliance and the third stage
oral appliance has a web thickness that is suitably dimensioned so as to allow a patient's
lips to close over the mouth.
26.      The set of oral appliances of any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein the first oral
appliance includes a tongue elevator for lifting the tongue towards a patient's maxilla and
a first distance is defined between the tongue elevator and the upper arch receiving
channel, the second oral appliance includes a tongue elevator for lifting the tongue
towards a patient's maxilla and a second distance defined between the tongue elevator
and the upper arch receiving channel and the first distance is greater than the second
distance, the third oral appliance includes a tongue elevator for lifting the tongue towards
a patient's maxilla and a third distance is defined between the tongue elevator and the
upper arch receiving channel and the second distance is greater than the third distance.
27.      The set of oral appliance of any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein the set of oral
appliances includes 3 to 6 appliances for use in 3 to 6 consecutive stages of treatment,
each appliance with a different total cross sectional breathing area, and the oral
appliance used in each stage of treatment has a total cross sectional breathing area that
is less than the total cross sectional breathing area than that used in a previous stage of
treatment.
                                              39

28.     The set of oral appliances of claim 27, wherein the oral appliance used in the final
stage of treatment has breathing holes with a diameter or width of about 1mm or less.
29.     The set of oral appliances of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the upper and lower
dental arch receiving channels of the first appliance are configured so that when the oral
appliance is worn in a patient's mouth, the patient's mandible is advanced to define a
first degree of mandibular advancement, the upper and lower dental arch receiving
channels of the second appliance are configured so that when the oral appliance is worn
in the mouth, the patient's mandible isadvanced to define a second degree of mandibular
advancement and the first degree of mandibular advancement isgreater than the second
degree of mandibular advancement and the upper and lower dental arch receiving
channels of the third oral appliance are configured so that when the oral appliance is
worn in the mouth, the patient's mandible is not advanced.
30.     The set of oral appliances of any one of claims 23 to 29, wherein the upper portion
of the inner wall of the first oral appliance defines a tongue tag that includes a central
substantially rounded resilient section, the second oral appliance also has a tongue tag
with a rounded resilient section and the rounded resilient section of the second oral
appliance is thinner than the rounded resilient section of the first oral appliance.
                                             40

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 9 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
