                                     ABSTRACT
      Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a transmission device, including:
a transmission means (20), and the transmission means (20) includes an indication
part (22) for providing an indication function of indicating operation states of a
push-button switch. The transmission device further includes an elastic means (30) for
driving the indication part to move so as to provide the indication function. The
elastic means (30) is disposed between the transmission means (20) and a rocker (40)
of the push-button switch, extends in a plane perpendicular to a pushing direction, and
is configured to move in responding to a pivoting of the rocker (40) of the
push-button switch, so as to drive the transmission means (20) to move between a first
predetermined position and a second predetermined position. The first predetermined
position corresponds to an on state of the push-button switch and the second
predetermined position corresponds to an off state of the push-button switch. The
embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a push-button switch and a socket.
With the transmission device, the push-button switch and the socket according to the
embodiments of the present disclosure, the transmission means is driven to move
through the elastic force generated when the push button is pressed, so as to achieve
the state indication of the switch. The number of parts is small and the structure is
simple.
                                            18

         10
       12'
Fig, I
  15

   TRANSMISSION DEVICE FOR PUSH-BUTTON SWITCH, PUSH-BUTTON
                                 SWITCH AND SOCKET
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]    Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a push-button switch, and more
particularly to an improvement of an operation-state indication of a push-button switch.
BACKGROUND
[0002]    The push-button switch is widely used in homes, factories and other fields. As
is well known in the art, unlike the rocker switch, the push-button switch includes a
push button that protrudes from the panel, and the operation state of the push-button
switch is switched by pressing the push button. For example, when the switch is initially
in the on state, if the push button is pressed, the switch is switched to the off state. Then,
the push button is released, the push button springs back and the switch remains in the
off state. When the switch remains in the off state, if the push button is pressed, the
switch is switched to the on state. Then, the push button is released, the push button
springs back and the switch remains in the on state. Therefore, the push-button switch
needs an indication means to indicate the operation state of the push-button switch.
However, the driving of the indication means for the push-button switch in the prior art
is complicated and has a large number of parts, so it is expected to further improve the
driving.
SUMMARY
[0003]    According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
transmission device for a push-button switch, including: a transmission means including
a driving part and configured, in responding to a pushing action to the push-button
switch, to drive, by the driving part, a rocker of the push-button switch to pivot, in
which, the transmission means further includes an indication part for providing an
indication function of indicating operation states of the push-button switch; the
transmission device further including an elastic means for driving the indication part to
move so as to provide the indication function, the elastic means being disposed between
the transmission means and the rocker of the push-button switch, extending in a plane
perpendicular to a pushing direction, and being configured to move in responding to a
                                               1

pivoting of the rocker of the push-button switch, so as to drive the transmission means
to move between a first predetermined position and a second predetermined position, in
which, the first predetermined position corresponds to an on state of the push-button
switch and the second predetermined position corresponds to an off state of the
push-button switch.
[0004]   According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means is
pivotably mounted to the push-button switch.
[0005]   According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means is
configured in a following manner: in the case the transmission means is in the first
predetermined position, when a push button of the push-button switch is pushed to
actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means pivots by a certain stroke in a first
direction within the plane perpendicular to the pushing direction and presses the
transmission means so as to be deformed, and also, the transmission means is
maintained in the first predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of
the push-button switch is released, the transmission means is driven to move to the
second predetermined position through a restoring force of the elastic means, so as to
change a state indication of the push-button switch; in the case that the transmission
means is in the second predetermined position, when the push button of the push-button
switch is pushed to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means pivots by a certain
stroke in a second direction opposite to the first direction and presses the transmission
means so as to be deformed, and also, the transmission means is maintained in the
second predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button
switch is released, the transmission means is driven to move to the first predetermined
position through the restoring force of the elastic means, so as to change the state
indication of the push-button switch.
[0006]   According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means
includes an opening adapted to be fitted with a shaft protruding from the rocker of the
push-button switch, and is configured in such a manner that when the rocker of the
push-button switch pivots, the shaft of the rocker pushes an edge of the opening so as to
pivot the elastic means.
                                             2

[0007]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means
includes two opened arms, namely first and second arms, the transmission means
includes first and second pushing parts arranged correspondingly to the first and second
arms; in the first predetermined position, the first arm abuts against the first pushing
part; and in the second predetermined position, the second arm abuts against the second
pushing part.
[0008]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the transmission means
is slidably mounted to the push button of the push-button switch.
[0009]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the indication part is
disposed on a top surface of the transmission means and the push button has an opening
window provided in a predetermined position; when the indication part is slid to the
predetermined position, the indication part is exposed out of the opening window, so
that the operation state of the push-button switch is observable to a user.
[0010]    According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
push-button switch, including: a push button; the above transmission device; a rocker
pivotably mounted to an housing of the push-button switch and configured to pivot in
responding to a downward movement of the transmission means, such that a moving
contact of the push-button switch is driven to pivot by the rocker, so as to contact or to
be separated from a fixed contact of the push-button switch.
[0011]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the push button is
provided with a sliding rail, and the transmission means is slidably mounted to the
sliding rail.
[0012]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the rocker is divided
into a first portion and a second portion so as to divide the push-button switch into two
parts, in which, the first portion of the rocker, the moving contact and the fixed contact
form an installation panel adapted to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push button, the
transmission means, the elastic means and the second portion of the rocker form a cover
                                              3

separated from the installation panel portion, in which the second portion of the rocker
is mounted to a main body of the cover through a pivot shaft.
[0013]    According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
socket, including the above push-button switch for controlling power-on and power-off
of the socket.
[0014]    With the transmission device, the push-button switch and the socket according
to embodiments of the present disclosure, two functions of transmission and indication
are realized in the transmission means. That is, one part has two functions, thus
resulting in few parts, a low cost, a convenient assembling and a facilitated production.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]    Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0016]    Fig. 1 is a schematic view showing a socket including a push-button switch
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0017]    Fig. 2 is a schematic view showing a push-button switch in a first state
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0018]    Fig. 3 shows a schematic top view of details of an interaction between an
elastic means and a rocker in the state of Fig. 2;
[0019]    Fig. 4 shows a schematic view of a push-button switch in a second state
according to one embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0020]    Fig. 5 shows a schematic top view of details of an interaction between an
elastic means and a rocker in the state of Fig. 4;
[0021]    Fig. 6 shows a perspective bottom view of an elastic means and a push button
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                             4

[0022]    Fig. 7 shows a perspective view of a rocker according to an embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0023]    Fig. 8 shows a schematic view of an elastic means according to another
embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[0024]    Fig. 9 shows a schematic view of a rocker being divided into two parts.
DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
[0025]    Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that the same numerals may
be used for similar parts or functional components in the drawings. The accompanying
drawings are merely intended to illustrate the embodiments of the present disclosure.
Those skilled in the art can obtain alternative embodiments from the following
descriptions without departing from the spirit and the protection scope of the present
disclosure.
[0026]   A transmission device for a push-button switch according to embodiments of the
present disclosure will be described below with reference to Figs. 1-8. It should be
understood that a structure of the push-button switch in the drawings is merely exemplary,
and some features not related to an inventive concept of the present application are
simplified or omitted. In addition, in the illustrated features, some invisible lines or
features not relevant to the present application are illustrated with dashed lines.
[0027]    It should be understood that although the present application illustrates the
inventive concept of the present application with a push-button switch combined in a
socket, the specific implementation forms of the push-button switch are various. For
example, the push-button switch can be used as a standalone switch part and also can be
integrated in another part to operate as a module therein. These variations are all covered
by the protection scope of the present application. In addition, direction terms such as
upper, lower, left and right described below are merely for convenience of description,
but not for limitation. In actual implementations, the direction can be changed according
                                               5

to actual applications.
[0028]    As shown in Fig. 1, the push-button switch according to embodiments of the
present disclosure includes a cover 1 and an installation panel 2. The installation panel 2
can be fixed to a support surface (such as a wall or the like) with a screw. The cover 1
can be mounted to the installation panel 2 in a way of covering the installation panel 2,
thereby form a decorative surface of the push-button switch.
[0029]    As shown in Fig. 1, the push-button switch according to embodiments of the
present disclosure includes a push button 10, a transmission means, and a rocker 40.
[0030]    The transmission device includes a transmission means 20. The transmission
means 20 includes a driving part 26 and is configured, in responding to a pushing action
of the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part 26, the rocker 40 to pivot. The
transmission means 20 further includes an indication part 22 to provide an indication
function of indicating operation states of the push-button switch.
[0031]    The transmission device further includes an elastic means 30 for driving the
indication part to move so as to provide the indication function. The elastic means 30 is
disposed between the transmission means and the rocker 40 of the push-button switch
and extends in a plane perpendicular to a pushing direction. The elastic means 30 is
configured to move in responding to a pivoting of the rocker 40 of the push-button
switch, so as to drive the transmission means to move between a first predetermined
position and a second predetermined position. The first predetermined position
corresponds to an on state of the push-button switch and the second predetermined
position corresponds to an off state of the push-button switch.
[0032]    The rocker 40 is pivotably mounted to a housing of the push-button switch and
is configured to pivot in responding to a downward movement of the transmission
means 20, such that a moving contact 50 of the push-button switch is driven to pivot by
the rocker 40, so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact 60 of the
push-button switch.
                                              6

[0033]    With the transmission device according to embodiments of the present
disclosure, when the push button 10 of the push-button switch is pushed, the elastic
means 30 moves in the plane perpendicular to the pushing direction in response to the
pivoting of the rocker 40 and is elastically deformed through the movement thereof;
when the push button 10 of the push-button switch is released, the transmission means
20 is driven to move by means of a restoring force of the deformed elastic means 30.
[0034]    Compared with the prior art, the transmission device according to the
embodiments of the present disclosure realizes two functions of transmission and
indication, has few parts and a low cost, and is convenient to assemble and convenient
to produce.
[0035]    For example, in an embodiment, a top surface of the transmission means 20 is
provided with the indication part 22. The indication part 22, for example, may be an
area marked with different colors. The push button 10 is provided with an opening
window 12 in a predetermined position. When the indication part 22 is slid to the
predetermined position, the indication part 22 is exposed out of the opening window 12,
so that the operation state of the push-button switch is observable to the user. In another
embodiment, the indication part may be configured as an independent means attached to
the transmission means.
[0036]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means 30 is
pivotably mounted to the push-button switch. In the illustrated embodiment, the cover 1
has a shaft 11 protruding from the cover body, and the elastic means 30 is provided with
an opening 31 (refer to Figs. 3 and 4), such that the elastic means 30 can be pivotably
mounted to the cover 1 in a manner of a shaft-hole fit. Although in the illustrated
embodiment, the elastic means 30 is mounted to the cover 1, in other embodiments, the
elastic means may also be mounted to a suitable portion of the installation panel.
[0037]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means 30 is
configured in a following manner: in the case that the transmission means 20 is in the
first predetermined position, when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed
to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means 30 pivots by a certain stroke in a
                                             7

first direction in the plane perpendicular to the pushing direction and presses a pushing
part of the transmission means 20 so as to be deformed, and also, the transmission
means 20 is maintained in the first predetermined position and not moved; when the
push button of the push-button switch is released, the transmission means 20 is driven to
move to the second predetermined position by a restoring force of the elastic means 30,
so as to change a state indication of the push-button switch; in the case that the
transmission means 20 is in the second predetermined position, when the push button of
the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means 30
pivots by a certain stroke in a second direction opposite to the first direction and presses
the pushing part of the transmission means 20 so as to be deformed, and also, the
transmission means 20 is maintained in the second predetermined position and not
moved; when the push button of the push-button switch is released, the transmission
means 20 is driven to move to the first predetermined position by the restoring force of
the elastic means 30, so as to change the state indication of the push-button switch.
[0038]    In the illustrated embodiment, the elastic means 30 is configured in a following
manner: when the rocker of the push-button switch pivots, a shaft 42 of the rocker
pushes an edge of the opening 31, and thus the elastic means 30 pivots.
[0039]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means 30
includes two opened arms, namely first and second arms 34, the transmission means
includes first and second pushing parts 24 arranged correspondingly to the first and
second arms. In the first predetermined position, the first elastic arm abuts against the
first pushing part, and in the second predetermined position, the second elastic arm
abuts against the second pushing part. The pushing part contributes to the deformation
of the elastic arm.
[0040]    The structure and operation principle of the transmission device for the
push-button switch according to the embodiments of the present disclosure will be
described below in combination with the operation process of the push-button switch.
As is well known in the art, the push-button switch has only two operation states, i.e. an
on state and an off state. When the push button is pushed and released, the operation
state of the push button is switched. Each time the push button is pushed and released,
                                             8

the operation state of the push button is switched once. Therefore, the push-button
switch needs to be provided with an indication device for indicating the operation state
of the push-button switch. The design difficulty of the indication device lies in how to
use the on-off switching movement of the push-button switch to realize the drive of the
indication device.
[0041]    As shown in Fig. 2, in an initial state, the moving contact 50 and the fixed
contact 60 are engaged with each other, and the switch is in the on state. In this state,
the rocker 40 is in the initial tilted position, and one driving part 26 (a left driving part
in the drawing) of the transmission means 20 abuts against one slave part 46 (a left
driving part in the drawing) of the rocker 40. However, as the transmission means and
the rocker are in an equilibrium state, there is no relative movement therebetween.
[0042]    In this state, the transmission means 20 is stationary, and the indication part 22
is exposed from out of the opening window 12, so that the operation state of the
push-button switch is observable to the user through the opening window 12.
[0043] As shown in Fig. 3, in this state, the elastic means 30 is in the first
predetermined position where the first arm 34 (an upper arm in the drawing) of the
elastic means 30 abuts against the pushing part 24 of the transmission means. For clarity
of illustration, the pushing part 24 is not shown in the drawing. This feature can best be
seen from Fig 6. As shown in Fig. 6, in this position, the first arm 34 (the upper arm in
the drawing) of the elastic means 30 abuts against the pushing part 24 of the
transmission means. Preferably, there is a certain elastic force between the first arm 34
and the pushing part 24 to prevent the transmission means from moving due to an
external interference.
[0044]    When the user desires to turn the switch off, the user needs to press the push
button 10 and then release the push button 10. The operation of pressing and releasing
realizes the operation of turning off the push-button switch. Moreover, the push button
10 maintains in the state that the moving contact 50 and the fixed contact 60 are
separated, when the user releases the push button 10. Descriptions will be made in the
following based on Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 in combination with Fig. 4 and Fig. 5.
                                               9

[0045] As shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, when the user pushes the push button 10, the
push button 10 moves downwards to push the transmission means 20 to move
downwards; as the transmission means 20 moves downwards, the left driving part 26 of
the transmission means 20 presses down the left slave part 46 of the rocker 40; since the
rocker 40 is pivotably connected to a main body of the push-button switch, the rocker
40 rotates counterclockwise (the direction observed in the drawing) around the rotating
shaft 48 along with the left driving part 26 of the transmission means 20 pressing down
the left slave part 46 of the rocker 40; along with the rotation of the rocker 40, the
rotation movement drives the moving contact 50 to rotate clockwise so as to be
separated from the fixed contact 60, thereby turning off the switch. It should be noted
that the push button 10 is not released yet.
[0046]    In this process, the elastic means 30 is pivotably connected with the
push-button switch, and the elastic means is configured to move in response to the
rotation of the rocker 40. In the illustrated embodiment, since the shaft 42 of the rocker
extends through the opening 31 of the elastic means 30, and the rocker 40 rotates
counterclockwise around the rotating shaft 48, so the shaft 42 presses an inner edge of
the opening 31 to drive the elastic means 30 to pivot in a horizontal plane, so as to move
from a position shown in Fig. 3 to a position shown in Fig. 5. As shown in Fig. 5, in
combination with Fig. 6, in this position, the second arm of the elastic means 30 presses
the second pushing part 24 of the transmission means 20 and is elastically deformed.
[0047]    At the same time, since the user's hand is still pressed on the push button 10,
the transmission means 20 remains in the original position under the pressure of the
push button 10. In other words, although the moving contact 50 and the fixed contact 60
have been separated at this time, the indication part 22 still remains in the exposed
position and is not moved. It should be noted that, at this moment, the elastic means 30
is subject to the acting force of the shaft 42, and the elastic means 30 presses the second
pushing part 24 and is elastically deformed.
[0048]    Then, when the user releases the push button 10, the pressure acted on the
transmission means 20 is removed. Therefore, the transmission means 20 slides to the
                                              10

right under the restoring force of the elastic means 30 (refer to Fig. 4), so that the
indication part 22 of the transmission means 20 moves to the right side of the push
button 10 and is hidden by the push button 10, that is, the user cannot see the indication
part 22 of the transmission means 20 through the opening window 12.
[0049]   At the same time, the right driving part 26 of the transmission means 20 moves
to a position corresponding to the right slave part 46 of the rocker 40. The moving
contact 50 and the fixed contact 60 are kept in the separated state, and the push-button
switch is kept in the off state.
[0050]   Then, when the user desires to turn on the push-button switch, the user can
press the push button 10 to perform a process similar to the entire process from Fig. 2 to
Fig. 5 described above, so as to achieve a position from off to on; in this process, the
indication part 22 moves from the right hidden position to the left exposed position, so
as to indicate the on state of the switch. For the sake of brevity, its detailed description
is omitted.
[0051]   The structure details of the push-button switch and the transmission device of
the present application will be further described below with reference to Fig. 6 to Fig. 7.
[0052]   In the illustrated embodiment, the push button 10 includes a cavity defined by
its top and side walls, and the transmission means 20 is slidably mounted to the push
button 10 of the push-button switch. Sliding is used to drive the transmission means, so
the moving process of the transmission device is simple and it is convenient to control
the movement of the transmission means.
[0053]   According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, as shown in Fig. 6, the
push button 10 is provided with a sliding rail 14, and the transmission means 20 is
slidably mounted to the sliding rail 14. As shown in Fig. 6, two sides of the transmission
means 20 are provided with a sliding part 24, and the sliding part 24 can be mounted to
the sliding rail 14. By the way of sliding engagement, a motion resistance of the
transmission means 20 is small and the driving thereof is simple.
                                             11

[0054]    Fig. 7 shows schematic structure details of the rocker 40. As shown in Fig. 7,
the rocker 40 includes the rotating shaft 48, and the rocker 40 can be pivotably mounted
to the push-button switch through the rotating shaft 48 (e.g., mounted to the installation
panel). Fig. 6 also shows the shaft 42 for driving the elastic means 30 to move.
Although the illustrated shaft 42 is cylindrical, a shape of the shaft 42 is not limited in
any way.
[0055]    Fig. 8 shows a schematic view of an elastic means 30' according to another
embodiment of the present disclosure. The elastic means 30' and 30 in the illustrated
embodiment employ a structure of two elastic arms, so the movement stroke of the
elastic means can be reduced and the size of the switch can be decreased. However, in
other embodiments, the elastic means 30' and 30 may have one or more elastic arms,
and the concept of the present invention may be implemented as well.
[0056]    According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, as shown in Fig. 9, the
push-button switch is divided into two portions. One portion of the push-button switch
can be configured in the form of the installation panel fixed in the support surface such
as the wall or the like, and the installation panel can be fixed to the support surface
(such as the wall or the like) with a screw. The other portion of the push-button switch
can be configured in the form of the cover matched with the installation panel, and the
cover can cover the installation panel and be fitted with the installation panel. With this
solution, the push-button switch is convenient to assemble.
[0057]    In an embodiment, the rocker 40, the moving contact 50 and the fixed contact
60 form the installation panel portion adapted to be mounted to the support surface. The
push button 10, the transmission means 20 and the elastic means 30 form the cover
portion separated from the installation panel portion. In an embodiment, as shown in Fig.
9, the rocker 40 may be divided into two portions. For example, a separate portion of
the rocker 40 provided with the shaft 42 may be configured as a part of the cover, and
the rest portion of the rocker 40 may be configured as a part of the installation panel.
These two can be mounted together by means of surface fit. In order to ensure that the
separate portion provided with the shaft 42 can be rotated together with the rest portion
of the rocker, the separate portion can be provided with a shaft 44, and the separate
                                             12

portion is rotatably mounted to the main body of the cover through the shaft 44. It
should be understood that a person skilled in the art would conceive other ways of
dividing the rocker 40, under the teachings of the present disclosure.
 [0058]   According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
socket, including the above push-button switch for controlling power-on and power-off
of the socket. Thus, the push-button switch can control power-on and power-off of a
jack in the socket. In other embodiments, the push-button switch can be integrated into
other electrical devices. These devices all have the advantages of the transmission
device according to embodiments of the present application.
 [0059]   With the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated
drawings, many modifications and other embodiments of the present disclosure herein
will recognized by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.
Therefore, it should be understood that the embodiments of the present disclosure are
not limited to the disclosed specific embodiments, and that modifications and other
embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. In
addition, although the above descriptions and related drawings describe the example
embodiments in the context of some example combinations of parts and/or functions, it
should be realized that different combinations of parts and/or functions may be provided
by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
In this regard, for example, other combinations of parts and/or functions more or less
different from those explicitly illustrated above are also expected as being within the
scope of the present disclosure. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are
used only in a generic and descriptive sense and not for purpose of limitation.
 [0060]   Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the words "comprise"        and "include" and variations such as
"comprising" and "including" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
integers.
                                            13

[0061]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
                                           14

CLAIMS
      1. A transmission device for a push-button switch, comprising:
      a transmission means comprising a driving part          and configured, in responding
to a pushing action to the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part, a rocker of
the push-button switch to pivot, wherein, the transmission means           further comprises
an indication part    for providing an indication function of indicating operation states
of the push-button switch;
        an elastic means     for driving the indication part to move so as to provide the
indication function, the elastic means         being disposed between the transmission
means        and the rocker       of the push-button switch, extending           in a plane
perpendicular to a pushing direction, and being configured to move in responding to a
pivoting of the rocker       of the push-button switch, so as to drive the transmission
means      to move between a first predetermined position and a second predetermined
position, wherein, the first predetermined position corresponds to an on state of the
push-button switch and the second predetermined position corresponds to an off state
of the push-button switch.
      2. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein, the elastic means is
pivotably mounted to the push-button switch.
      3. The transmission device according to claim 2, wherein, the elastic means is
configured in a following manner:
      in the case that the transmission means        is in the first predetermined position,
when a push button of the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button
switch, the elastic means       pivots by a certain stroke in a first direction within the
plane perpendicular to the pushing direction and presses the transmission means           so
as to be deformed, and also, the transmission means               is maintained in the first
predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button
switch is released, the transmission means             is driven to move to the second
predetermined position by a restoring force of the elastic means , so as to change a
state indication of the push-button switch;
      in the case that the transmission means      is in the second predetermined position,
when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button
                                              15

switch, the elastic means     pivots by a certain stroke in a second direction opposite to
the first direction and presses the transmission means      so as to be deformed, and also,
the transmission means      is maintained in the second predetermined position and not
moved; when the push button of the push-button switch is released, the transmission
means      is driven to move to the first predetermined position by the restoring force of
the elastic means , so as to change the state indication of the push-button switch.
      4. The transmission device according to claim 3, wherein, the elastic means
comprises an opening adapted to be fitted with a shaft protruding from the rocker of
the push-button switch, and is configured in such a manner that when the rocker of the
push-button switch pivots, the shaft of the rocker pushes an edge of the opening so as
to pivot the elastic means.
      5. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein, the elastic means
comprises two opened arms, namely first and second arms, the transmission means
comprises first and second pushing parts arranged correspondingly to the first and
second arms; in the first predetermined position, the first arm abuts against the first
pushing part; and in the second predetermined position, the second arm abuts against
the second pushing part.
      6. The transmission device according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein, the
transmission means is slidably mounted to the push button of the push-button switch.
      7. The transmission device according to claim 6, wherein, the indication part is
disposed on a top surface of the transmission means and the push button has an
opening window provided in a predetermined position; when the indication part is slid
to the predetermined position, the indication part is exposed out of the opening
window, so that the operation state of the push-button switch is observable to a user.
      8. A push-button switch, comprising:
      a push button;
      a transmission device according to any one of claims 1-7;
                                              16

      a rocker   pivotably mounted to an housing of the push-button switch and driven
by the driving part to pivot, such that a moving contact     of the push-button switch is
driven to pivot by the rocker , so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact
of the push-button switch.
      9. The push-button switch according to claim 8, wherein, the push button is
provided with a sliding rail, and the transmission means is slidably mounted to the
sliding rail.
      10. The push-button switch according to claim 9, wherein, the rocker     is divided
into a first portion and a second portion so as to divide the push-button switch into
two parts, wherein, the first portion of the rocker , the moving contact    and the fixed
contact    form an installation panel adapted to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push
button, the transmission means, the elastic means         and the second portion of the
rocker    form a cover separated from the installation panel portion, wherein the
second portion of the rocker is mounted to a main body of the cover through a pivot
shaft.
      11. A socket, comprising a push-button switch according to any one of claims
8-10 for controlling power-on and power-off of the socket.
                                            17

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/5   Fig. 1

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/5   Fig. 3   Fig. 2

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/5   Fig. 5   Fig. 4

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 6
              Fig. 7
              Fig. 8
               4/5

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/5   Fig. 9

