                                            Abstract
            The present application provides methods and systems for maintaining
   anonymity in a gaming environment that include or perform the step or steps of
   receiving a user preference from a first user for maintaining an identity of the first
 5 user anonymous during at least one game; tracking game play involving the first
   user and at least one other user; receiving a request from the at least one other user
   to initiate at least one game with the first user; retrieving game history data specific
   to the first user and the at least one other user; retrieving at least one rule for
   controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user in
10 the gaming environment; and disposing the request to initiate the at least one game
   with the first user based at least on the game history data and the at least one rule
   for controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other
   user. The game may be a casino-type game, such as poker, blackjack, craps,
   roulette , and baccarat.
15

       SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MAINTAINING ANONYMITY IN A
                         GAMING OR OTHER ENVIRONMENT
            The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
 5 Application No. 60/745,841, filed April 27, 2006, which is hereby incorporated
   herein by reference.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            FIG. I depicts a flow diagram according to at least one embodiment of the
    methods disclosed herein;
10          FIG. 2 depicts a system according to at least one embodiment of the
    systems disclosed herein; and
            FIG. 3 depicts an interface screen for use in at least in one of the
    embodiments of the methods and systems disclosed herein.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
15 The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
          I.        Terms
            The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition
   of matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
20          The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like,
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
             Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
   includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a
   process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term
25 'process' or a like term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps'
   of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.
            The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions
   disclosed in this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc

             The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the
   embodiment", "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some
   embodiments", "certain embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment"
   and the like mean "one or more (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed
 5 invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the
   invention, unless expressly specified otherwise.
             A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does
   not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another
10 embodiment (e.g., an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment),
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean
   "including but not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
             The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly
15 specified otherwise.
             The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
             The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything
   which may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
20           The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of
   things (such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or
   more of those things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the
   phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a
   car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a
25 wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such
   phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality
   of things.
             Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers
   to indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the
30 quantity indicated by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity
   indicated by that numerical term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not
   06-1126WO_070427_AP.doc                      2

   mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover,
   e.g., two widgets.
            The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
   specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based
 5 only on" and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to
   the phrase "based at least in part on".
            The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly
   specified otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents
   only", unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data
10 represents a credit card number" describes both "the data represents only a credit
   card number" and "the data represents a credit card number and the data also
   represents something else".
            The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of
   words that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something
15 that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in
   a claim, the clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not
   establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning
   or scope of the claim.
            The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit
20 the term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends
   data (e.g., instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains
   that "instructions" are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the
   Internet, and also explains that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the
   computer may send over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data
25 structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions"
   and "a data structure" can be "data".
            The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if
   two or more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its
   own characteristic, and these characteristics can be different from each other but
30 need not be. For example, the phrase "each of two machines has a respective
   function" means that the first such machine has a function and the second such
   06- I126WO_070427_AP doc                     3

   machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not
   be the same as the function of the second machine.
             The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or
   phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e.,
 5 instructions) over the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the
   "data" that the computer sends over the Internet.
             Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers
   within the range. For example, the range "I to 10" shall be interpreted to
   specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and
10 non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
              Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an
   explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such
   term / phrase does not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a
   different meaning. For example, where a statement renders the meaning of
15 "including" to be synonymous with "including but not limited to", the mere usage
   of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the term "including"
   means something other than "including but not limited to".
           II.       Determining
20            The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to
   determine a price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain
   criterion) is used in an extremely broad sense. The term "determining"
   encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore "determining" can include
   calculating, computing, processing, deriving, investigating, looking up (e.g.,
25  looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the
    like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information),
   accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can
    include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
              The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
30 therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing
   and the like.
    06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                    4

              The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must
   be performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does
   not imply that an algorithm or process is used.
              The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be
 5 used. For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
           Ill.      Forms of Sentences
              Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as
   more than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers
10 one widget as well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that
   depends on the first claim, the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to
   the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not imply that the first claim covers
   only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second claim covers only
   one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than one
15 widget).
              When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is
   used as an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly
   specified otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish
   that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by
20 a similar term. For example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to
   distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal
   numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
   relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other
   characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the
25 ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate
   that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not
   indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3)
   does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
   importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not
30 define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For
   06-1 126WO_070427_AP doc                      5

   example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the
   term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
            When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more
   than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used
 5 in place of the single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the
   functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be
   possessed by more than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate).
            Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described
   herein (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively
10 be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For
   example, a plurality of computer-based devices may be substituted with a single
   computer-based device. Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as
   being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed
   by a single device / article.
15          The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described
   may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described
   but are not explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other
   embodiments need not include the described device itself, but rather can include
   the one or more other devices which would, in those other embodiments, have such
20 functionality / features.
          IV.        Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
            Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
   application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be
25 taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s). An
   Abstract has been included in this application merely because an Abstract of not
   more than 150 words is required under 37 C.F.R. § 1.72(b).
            The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
   present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the
30 disclosure in any way.
   06-I126WO_070427_AP.doc                       6

           Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
   presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and
   are not intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s)
   are widely applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the
 5 disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed
   invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and alterations, such as
   structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although particular
   features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or
   more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such
10 features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or
   drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
           No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the
   present application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the
15 invention claimed herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein,
   except where it is either expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly
   recited in a claim.
           The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and
   possible uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
20         The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
   invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the
   invention(s) which must be present in all embodiments.
           Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be
   in continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified
25 otherwise. On the contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as
   necessary or desirable, and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the
   time. For example, a machine in communication with another machine via the
   Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time (e.g.
   weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in communication with each other
30 may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
   06-1126WO_070427_AP.doc                     7

            A description of an embodiment with several components or features does
   not imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the
   contrary, a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide
   variety of possible embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise
 5 specified explicitly, no component / feature is essential or required.
            Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed
   in a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in
   different orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be
   explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the
10 steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be
   performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be performed
   simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously
   (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration
   of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process
15 is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
   illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not
   imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
            Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that
   does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required.
20 Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include
   other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise
   specified explicitly, no step is essential or required.
            Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
   products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other
25 products or methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one
   business model to another business model. Such interaction may be provided to
   enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
            Although a product may be described as including a plurality of
   components, aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not
30 indicate that any or all of the plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                      8

   other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other
   products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
             An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
   imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified
 5 otherwise. Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be
   numbered) does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any
   category, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list
   "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of the three items of
   that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items
10 of that list are comprehensive of any category.
             An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
   imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted
   for each other.
             All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
15 embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
           V.          Computing
              It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
   processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately
20 programmed general purpose computers, special purpose computers and
   computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one
   or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal processors) will receive
   instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those instructions,
   thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
25 Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or
   more scripts.
              A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
   (CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like
   devices or any combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level
30 multiprocessing / multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked
   Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
   06-1 126WO_070427_AP doc                      9

            Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
   performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g.,
   a processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to
   perform the process.
 5          Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of
   data) may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer
   readable media) in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired
   circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of, or in combination with,
   some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of various
10 embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and software may be used
   instead of software only.
            The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of
   the same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data
   (e.g., instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor
15 or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited
   to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile
   media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory.
   Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM), which typically
   constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper
20 wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the
   processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves, light waves
   and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio frequency
   (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
   readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk,
25 magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical
   medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
   holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip
   or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from
   which a computer can read.
30          Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying
   data (e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i)
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                     10

   delivered from RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission
   medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted according to numerous formats,
   standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, BluetoothDL,
   and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy or
 5 prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
            Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer
   readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer
   readable medium can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements
   which are appropriate to perform the method.
10          Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
   the described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer /
   computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the
   described process.
            Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not
15 indicate that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer
   readable medium storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable
   medium storing a program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform
   some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
            Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary
20 skill in the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be
   readily employed, and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be
   readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases
   presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of
   information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those
25 suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any
   illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of
   ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries
   can be different from those described herein. Further, despite any depiction of the
   databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases, object-based
30 models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the
   data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database
   06-I126WO_070427_AP doc                       II

   can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In
   addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely
   from a device which accesses data in such a database.
            Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
 5 including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications
   network) with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the
   devices directly or indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet,
   LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio
   channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service providers,
10 bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of
   the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other
   computing devices, such as those based on the Intel® Pentium® or CentrinoTM
   processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and
   type of devices may be in communication with the computer.
15          In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
   necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an
   embodiment, be practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In
   such an embodiment, any functions described herein as performed by the server
   computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead be
20 performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
            Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
   without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some
   human intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
25         VI.       Continuing Applications
            The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an
   enabling description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these
   embodiments and / or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but
   may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the
30  benefit of priority of the present application.
    06-I126WO_070427_AP.doc                     12

            Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for
   subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present
   application.
 5        VII.       35 U.S.C.    112, paragraph 6
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for"
   or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that
   limitation.
            In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase
10 "means for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6 does
   not apply to that limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function
   without recitation of structure, material or acts for performing that function. For
   example, in a claim, the mere use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of" in
   referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not mean that
15 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
            With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure,
   material or acts described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may
   perform additional functions as well as the specified function.
20          Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures
   that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to
   perform a specified function by executing one or more programs, such as a
   program stored in a memory device of that product or in a memory device which
   that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise, such a program need
25 not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that
   might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary
   skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different
   algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design
   choice for carrying out the specified function.
30          Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified
   function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding
   06-Il26WO_070427_AP.doc                      13

   to a specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified
   function. Such structure includes programmed products which perform the
   function, regardless of whether such product is programmed with (i) a disclosed
   algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that is similar to a
 5 disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
             Where there is recited a means for performing a function hat is a method,
   one structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a
   general purpose computer) that is programmed and / or configured with
   appropriate hardware to perform that function.
10 Also includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
   programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that
   function via other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in
   the art.
15         VIII.     Disclaimer
             Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a
   disclaimer or disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly
   references to the description of embodiments which all include a particular feature
   does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include
20 that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application
   shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot
   perform".
           IX.       Incorporation By Reference
25           Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is
    incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present
   disclosure, but only for purposes of written description in accordance with 35
    U.S.C. § 112, paragraph I and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112,
    paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe
30  any term of the present application where the present application, without such
    incorporation by reference, would not have failed to provide an ascertainable
    06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                    14

   meaning, but rather would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to
   be provided. Thus, the person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any
   way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference
            Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any
 5 endorsement of, ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions,
   arguments or characterizations contained in any incorporated patent, patent
   application or other document, unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent
   application.
10        X.         Prosecution History
             In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of
   ordinary skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present
   application, but not to the prosecution history of any other patent or patent
   application, regardless of whether there are other patent applications that are
is considered related to the present application, and regardless of whether there are
   other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present application.
             Banks and other entities may offer trade execution to their customers
   through a plurality of portals, including the entities' own trading systems or
20 systems, and various electronic communication networks (ECNs). This, however,
   allows individuals that trade with these entities to make profits at the entities'
   expense by exploiting loopholes inherent in multiple portal setups, such as by
   using system arbitrage strategies to buy an instrument on one system and then
   quickly sell it back to the same entity on another system that updates itself a
25 fraction of a second slower. In an effort to weed out these types of individuals,
   some of these entities have decided to trade only with approved individuals with
   know identities. As a result, these entities may forgo a level of business with
   individuals that, e.g., prefer or are required to keep their identities anonymous.
   The same may occur in other environments where anonymity may be desired by
30 some or all of the participants, such as in networked gaming environment, e.g.,
   poker, blackjack, etc., that allows anonymous game play.
   06-I126WO_070427_AP doc
                                                15

             Accordingly, methods and systems are provided herewith that allow
   entities, such as banks and gaming providers, and/or the individuals interacting
   with these entities or with other individuals to filter out unprofitable counter
   parties, e.g., traders that may be using arbitrage strategies, without necessarily
 5 turning away all anonymous counter parties. In at least one embodiment of the
   methods and systems disclosed herein, this may be accomplished with anonymous
    identifiers assigned to at least those individual that want to remain anonymous.
   Individuals may therefore identify counter parties using the system that they may
   not want to interact with based on the anonymous one or more identifiers assigned
10 thereto without realizing the true identify of the anonymous counter party.
   Anonymous identifiers may be communicated to system users in various ways.
   For example, the anonymous identifier may be displayed in a market display
   interface that identifies the source or orders displayed therein using the anonymous
   identifier(s). Similarly, in a gaming environment, opponents may be identified
15 with the anonymous identifier(s), e.g., displayed at the opponent's position in the
   gaming display.
            Alternatively or additionally, users electing to interact with anonymous
   counter parties may be given trading or game play information relating or
   otherwise involving particular anonymous users. This information may be used to
20 control, e.g., display, hide, highlight, allow, and/or or block, transactions with
   certain anonymous opponents. In at least one embodiment, the trading information
   includes trade history data, such as information regarding executed trade orders. In
   the gaming environment, game play information may include game history data,
   such as information regarding the outcome of completed games. The trade history
25 data may be specific in that the data is limited to or based on interactions with and
   between a particular the anonymous users and, e.g., the particular trader requesting
   market or other data there from, or general in that the data is not limited to or based
   on interactions with or between any one particular trader. Game history data may
   similarly be specific or general.
30          Trade and game history data (specific or otherwise) may be used to classify
   anonymous users in one of a plurality of tiers. The tier associated with a particular
   06-1126WO_070427_AP.doc
                                                16

   anonymous user may then be used controls transactions therewith. Each tier may
   also be associated with a predetermined price level for which an anonymous user is
   allowed to trade or wager, as the case may be. Tier information may be
   communicated to users in a market display or a gaming display interface screen.
 5          In at least one embodiment, methods and systems are disclosed herein for
   maintaining anonymity in a gaming environment that include or perform the step
   or steps of receiving a user preference from a first user for maintaining an identity
   of the first user anonymous during at least one game; tracking game play involving
   the first user and at least one other user; receiving a request from the at least one
10 other user to initiate at least one game with the first user; retrieving game history
   data specific to the first user and the at least one other user; retrieving at least one
   rule for controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least one
   other user in the gaming environment; and disposing the request to initiate the at
   least one game with the first user based at least on the game history data and the at
15 least one rule for controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least
   one other user. The game may be a casino-type game, such as poker, blackjack,
   craps, roulette, and baccarat
            In at least one embodiment, at least one anonymous identifier is assigned to
   the first user and the request to initiate the at least one game is disposed by
20 highlighting the at least one anonymous identifier assigned to the first user in the
   game. Game play may be initiated between at least the first user and the at least
   one other user; and at least one interface screen may be displayed for at least the
   first user and the at least one other user to play the at least one game.
            In at least one embodiment, a plurality of anonymous identifiers are
25 assigned to the first user and the request to initiate the at least one game is disposed
   by highlighting at least one of the plurality anonymous identifiers assigned to the
   first user in the game. The plurality of anonymous identifiers may be assigned
   periodically or they may be assigned at a trigger event, such as each time the first
   user initiates game play. The request to initiate the at least one game may be at
30  least one of blocking, hiding, and highlighting the first user in the game.
   06-1126WO_070427_AP.doc                      17

             In at least one embodiment, methods and systems are provided that include
   or perform the step or steps of receiving a user preference from a first user for
   maintaining an identity of the first user anonymous in a trading system; tracking
   trade history involving at least the first user and at least one other user; receiving at
 5 least one order to trade an item from the first user; receiving a request for market
   data associated with the item from the at least one other user; retrieving trade
   history data specific to the first user and the at least one other user; retrieving at
   least one rule for controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least
   one other user in the trading system; and disposing the request for market data
10 based at least on the trade history data and the at least one rule for controlling
   interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user.
            At least one anonymous identifier may be assigned to the first user and the
   request for market data may be disposed by at least one of blocking, hiding, and
   highlighting orders originating from the first user. The at least one anonymous
15 identifier assigned to the first user may be communicated to the at least one other
   user and the request for market data may be disposed by at least one of hiding and
   highlighting the at least one anonymous identifier.
            Trade history data may include data regarding executed orders between the
   first user and the at least one other user, such as an indication that at least one
20 executed orders resulted in a gain or loss, whether a pair of executed orders for an
   item occurred within a certain time from each other, etc.
            In at least one embodiment, first user may be classified as belonging to one
   of a plurality of tiers, and the request for market data may be disposed based on
   inclusion of the first user in one of the plurality of tiers. A first of the plurality of
25 tiers may have at least one rule associated therewith for controlling interactions
   between anonymous users and the at least one other user, and a second of the
   plurality of tiers may have at least one other rule associated therewith for controls
   interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user. In this
   instance, orders originating from first tier anonymous users may be disposed
30 differently than orders originating from second tier anonymous users. Parameters
   for classifying the first user are specified by the at least one other user.
   06-I 126WO_070427_A P.doc
                                               18

             In at least one embodiment, classification is based at least on a cumulative
   grading scheme that accounts for at least one of a number of and a severity
   associated with the at least one rule for controlling interactions between
   anonymous users and the at least one other user that the trading history data either
 5 satisfies or fails.
             Market data, e.g., data for pending orders originating from at least one
   anonymous user and at least one non-anonymous user for the item may be
   communicated to the at least one other user. Trade history data involving the first
   user and at least one other user, such as of a number of executed orders and
10 profitability as between the first user and the at least one other user, may also be
   communicated to the at least one other user.
             Referring to Fig. 1, a method 100, according to at least one embodiment of
   the methods disclosed herein, begins at 102 by setting up an account for at least
   one user. Account setup may be performed in a variety of ways. In one
15 embodiment, account setup includes receiving at 104 user identification
   information, such as the user's name, tax ID or social security number, address,
   affiliations, biometric data, password, etc. User identification information is
   preferably stored in a data file or records, e.g., in one or more databases, for later
   use, such as for user authentication, e.g., during system login.
20           User preferences may be received at 106 at account setup or at any other
   time. User preference may include indications as to whether the particular user
   wants to remain anonymous and/or is willing to interact with other anonymous
   users. The preferences may be user specific. That is, the user may indicate
   particular users, e.g., with the anonymous identifiers, that the user is or is not
25 willing to interact with. Alternatively or additionally, the user may indicate his
   willingness to interact with anonymous users based on their inclusion in one of a
   plurality of tiers and may also specify parameters for inclusion in the tiers. The
   user preferences may be stored in a user profile data file or record, e.g., in one or
   more databases, also for later use.
30           In at least one embodiment, an anonymous identifier is generated and/or
   assigned at 108 to the particular user. This may be accomplished in a variety of
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                     19

   ways. The anonymous identifier may be a subset of a set of alphanumeric
   characters and/or images, which may be generated randomly or otherwise. A user
   may also be assigned an anonymous identifier by the system provider, e.g., by the
   bank. Alternatively, the user may provide the anonymous identifier to the system
 5 provider. In any event, the anonymous identifier may be stored at I10 in one or
   more user profiles associated with the user, e.g., in one or more databases, for later
   use. The anonymous identifier may be assigned once, e.g., at account setup, or
   more than once, e.g., periodically, to further ensure anonymity. For example, an
   anonymous identifier may be generated monthly, weekly, daily, etc., or more
10 frequently and/or non-periodically, such as each time the anonymous user submits
   a trade order, logs into the system, begins a gaming session, etc. Multiple
   anonymous identifiers may be stored at 110 in one or more data files or records
   associated with the particular user. Multiple anonymous identifiers are preferably
   cross-referenced with each other to maintain ID continuity at least one for the
15 system provider.
           The anonymous identifier and/or the trade orders originating from the
   anonymous user associated with those particular anonymous identifiers may be
   disclosed only to other system users that elect to interact with anonymous counter
   parties. In this instance, users electing to trade with anonymous users benefit from
20 the additional liquidity contributed by anonymous traders. In the gaming
   environment, players that elect to play with anonymous opponents have a greater
   pool of opponents to play and/or wager against. Alternatively, liquidity from
   anonymous users may be disclosed to all traders, including those that elect not to
   trade with anonymous counter parties. Liquidity from anonymous traders may be
25 highlighted for easy identification. For example, orders from anonymous traders
   may be set in bold, underlined, italicized, color coded, etc., or a plurality thereof.
   Anonymous opponents in the gaming environment may similarly be highlighted
   for easy identification.
            In one embodiment, the methods disclosed herein are applied to foreign
30 exchange trading. For example, foreign exchange traders who wish to stay
   anonymous may be assigned an anonymous identifier or identifiers, and other
   06-1126Wo_070427_AP.doc                     20

   traders may elect whether to trade currencies with these anonymous traders in
   foreign exchange trading systems. Therefore, in this context trade, orders may
   include bids, offers, buys, sells, etc., to trade particular currencies. However, the
   systems and methods disclosed herein are equally applicable for trading of any
 5 other financial instrument and are thus not limited thereto. The term "financial
   instrument" denotes any instrument, issued by a corporation, government, or any
   other entity, that evinces dept or equity, and any derivative thereof, including
   equities, stocks, fixed income instruments, bonds, debentures, certificates of
   interest or deposit, warrants, options, futures, forwards, swaps, or generally any
10 security.
            In at least one embodiment, a user may login to the system at some time
   following account setup. Login may be accomplished in a variety of ways. In one
   embodiment login includes receiving login information at 112. The login
   information may be any information for use in authenticating a user and providing
15 thereto one or more of the functions disclosed herein. The login information may
   be, for example, a user ID, password, biometric data, etc. The login information
   may be submitted by a user with a user interface screen that includes therein at
   least one form element, such as an input field or text box, a drop down list, check
   box, radio buttons, action buttons, clickable images, etc., for entering login data.
20 Following submission, the login information may be compared with previously
   obtained information and access to one or more of the functions may be provided
   based on a positive match. The login generally initiates a session in which
   authentication persists until the end of the session, e.g. logoff.
            In at least one embodiment, the system tracks at 114 the users interactions
25 with the other users. That is, the system may track a trader's trading history or a
   players gaming history. The system may store trading history including
   information regarding executed as well as non-executed orders. Various types of
   trade history information may be tracked, such as financial instrument
   name/identifier, price, execution time, volume or size, whether a sale or a
30 purchase, whether a pair of transactions occurring within a certain time from each
   other, e.g., for a common type of financial instrument, result in a gain or a loss, and
   06- 126WO_070427_AP doc
                                                 21

   the counter party for executed trades. In the gaming environment, the system may
   track game history, such as win/loss and wagering statistics. The statistics may be
   game specific and/or particular counter party specific. Transactions with
   anonymous counter parties may reflect the anonymous identifier associated with
 5 the particular anonymous counter party. Trading and game history data may be
   stored in user profile data files or records, e.g., in one or more one or more
   databases.
            As noted above, transaction information may be used by users and/or the
   system provider to control transactions and/or the level of interaction with
10 anonymous users. For example, orders originating from particular anonymous
   traders may be dealt with, e.g., made hidden, highlighted, blocked, etc., or a
   combination thereof, based on the trading history data for the anonymous trader.
   The manner in which orders are handled in this respect may be dictated or
    specified by the system provider and/or other users. That is, the system may block
15  orders from anonymous users that appear to have used arbitrage strategies with one
    or more other users a predetermined number of times, e.g., 1-10, etc. Similarly,
    any user may block orders from being communicated thereto from anonymous
    users that appear to have used arbitrage strategies, in general or in previous
    transactions with the user a predetermined amount of times, e.g., 1-5, etc.,
20  consecutive or otherwise. Control rules for handling orders from anonymous users
    may be stored in a user profile file or data record for later use.
             In the context of the gaming environment, opponents may be identified
    blocked, highlighted, hidden, etc., based on the game history data for the
    anonymous opponent. The user and/or the system provider may specify the
25  manner in which opponent interaction is handled. In this respect, users may
    readily identify potentially problematic opponents, generally or specifically
    therewith, without necessarily realizing their true identity.
             In at least one embodiment, a request for market data is received at 16.
    The request may then be disposed at 118 based on the user preferences. In one
30  embodiment, disposable includes communicating market data to the requesting
    user. Market data includes any and all data relating to a market for an item, such
    06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                    22

   as one or more bid and/or ask prices, yields, sizes, originating party, etc., real time
   or otherwise. The total set of market data for the item may include data for
   pending orders from one or more anonymous traders, and from one or more non
   anonymous traders. As discussed herein, users may be able herewith to control the
 5 manner in which they interact with anonymous users. As such, the system may
   communicate the requested market data according to the controls set up by the
   particular user and/or the system provider. This may be accomplished in a variety
   of ways. In one embodiment, the system references control rules from one or more
   data files, e.g., in a user profile(s), and presents the market data based thereon. As
10 can be appreciated, a plurality of users may each have their own preferences. In
   this instance, the system will reference control rules specified by each of the
   plurality of users, e.g., in a plurality of user profiles, and communicate market data
   thereto based on each user's controls. In one embodiment, market data
   communicated to the requesting user causes an interface screen to be displayed that
15 contains market data based on the user and/or system specified controls.
            In the context of the gamin environment, a request for a networked game
   may be received and the gaming system may dispose of the request by determining
   potential opponents based on control rules set by the user and/or the system
   provider. A list of available users may then be communicated to the requesting
20 user based on the control rules. The list may block, hide, highlight, etc., certain
   anonymous opponents that do not satisfy the control criteria.
            Various control rules may be implemented in accordance with the methods
   and systems disclosed herein. Control rules generally test at least one parameter
   associated with an order for an item and/or the originating trader, and dictate the
25 manner in which those orders will be handled with. Users may, for example,
   control interactions with anonymous traders by testing whether orders originate
    from anonymous users and at least one of block, hide, highlight, etc., orders based
   thereon. Similarly, users may control interactions based on the trade history or
   habits of the originating anonymous user. For example, the control rules may test
30 whether orders originate from anonymous users that have shown to be unprofitable
   and/or may have used arbitrage strategies previously, either with the specific
    06- 126WO_070427_A P.doc                     23

   requesting trader or in general with other traders. Orders originating from these
   users may similarly be blocked, hidden, highlighted, etc.
            Profitability may be based on the number and/or magnitude of the loss/gain
   on individual orders, a plurality of orders, or all of the orders, e.g., executed
 5 between the requesting user and the anonymous user. Use of arbitrage strategies
   may be suspected based on the difference in the execution time of two orders for
   an item, executed between the requesting user and the anonymous trader or any
   two traders occurring within a predefined time, e.g., 1, 2, 3, ... 30, etc. seconds.
            In the context of the gaming environment, control rules may test the
10 gaming history of the anonymous user and dictate the level of interaction with the
   anonymous user. Users may test win/loss statistics for particular anonymous users
   and at least one of block, hide, highlight, etc., anonymous users attempting to
   wager with other users based thereon.
            As noted above, users may be classified into one of a plurality of tiers.
15 Control rules may therefore be implemented that are tier specific. That is, control
   rules may be used to control the manner in which all orders/anonymous users
   falling within a tier are dealt with. For example, tier I orders/users may be
   blocked, tier 2 may be hidden, tier 3 may be highlighted, etc.
            The position of an order/user within the classification scheme may be
20 determined using a cumulative grading scheme. That is, orders/users may be
   graded based on the number and severity of the control rules that are either
   satisfied or failed. For example, an order from an anonymous trader (+30) that has
   proven to be unprofitable to at least one other trader in five previous transactions
   (+50) and profitable to at least one other trader in two transactions (+20) may
25 receive a score of (30 + 50 - 20 = 10). Similarly, an order from an anonymous
   trader (30) that has executed ten common trader orders (five profitable order pairs)
   for the same item within two seconds of each order in the pair (75) and three
   profitable order pairs within three seconds of each order in the pair (30) may
   receive a score (30 + 75 + 30 = 135).
30          Tier I may include orders having scores 0-30, tier 2 may include orders
   having scores 3 1 to 60, and tier 3 may include orders having scores greater than 60.
   06-i126WO_070427_AP doc                    24

   Tier classifications may be user or system or user specified and stored in one or
   more data files or records for later use. Tier classification/grade may further take
   into account the magnitude of the losses or gains, the size of the pending
   orders/wagers, the volume of executed orders, etc., or any ratio or combination of
 5 the variables discussed herein. As can be appreciated, various scoring schemes
   may be implemented in this respect. Accordingly, the methods and systems
   disclosed herein are not limited to any one implementation.
            Traders receiving market data may act on the orders communicated thereto.
   In this instance, the system may receive at 120 a trading command from the trader.
10 The trading command may be a counter side buy or sell order of any one of the
   orders communicated thereto, a bid, an offer, etc. Bids and offers may be limit or
   market orders in which instance the system may match the bids and offers received
   at 122 with pending offers and bids, respectively, in accordance with the control
   rules specified either by the user and/or the system provider. For example, traders
15 may limit order matching against those that receive a certain score or belong to one
   or more tiers. Orders acted on with a buy or sell command and matched orders
   may be executed at 124 and removed from the market order queue. Some or all of
   the steps iterated herein may be repeated during the login session and for other
   users.
20          In the gaming environment, users may accept game play with certain
   anonymous opponents. In this instance, the system may receive a command to
   initiate game play with the identified users and initiate a gaming session between
   the users, e.g., for the users to interact and/or wager in one or more networked
   games, such as casino-style games, e.g., poker, blackjack, craps, roulette, baccarat,
25 etc., as well as other games, e.g., the wheel of fortune; keno, sports betting, horse,
   dog, or auto racing, jai alai, lottery-type games, etc.
            As discussed above, the contents of user's profile(s) may include trading
   information, such as the profits generated and/or the losses sustained to, e.g., the
   bank from trades entered into with a particular customer, trader, and/or user, the
30 liquidity provided by that user (volume) and/or other parties they have traded with
   the user. An anonymous identifier may be part of the user's profile as well.
   06-1126WO_070427_AP1doc
                                                25

            In the context of a bank/customer relationship, in certain embodiments, a
   bank may allow a particular customer to trade or may choose to trade with the
   customer based on that particular customer's profile. More specifically, the bank
   may assign the customer an anonymous identifier such as a customer number and
 5 track the trading history associated with the assigned identifier. Customers who
   are willing to trade with anonymous counter parties may be given access to some
   of the trading history associated with anonymous identifiers, and thus may choose
   whether to trade with a particular customer. The portion of the information that
   may be made available to such customers may be the liquidity provided by the
10 anonymous customers. Similarly, the bank may opt to not trade with a particular
   customer if the trading history or habits associated with that particular identifier
   becomes unfavorable to the bank. For example, if trades with a single customer
   have resulted in certain losses to the bank that are greater than a predetermined
   amount or that are not offset by enough profits, then the bank may refuse to allow
15 this customer to trade. These rules may similarly be applied by other customers or
   system users.
            Customers who are willing to trade with anonymous counter parties may be
   provided with information relating to the anonymous user. Such information may
   be characterized by the absence of the user's identity. The user may attempt to
20 submit trading instructions that are received by the trading system. A trade may be
   executed at least based on the information and the trading instructions. Customers
   may track trades entered into with anonymous counter parties through identifiers
   associated therewith and thus may choose whether to trade with a particular
   customer depending on the outcome of such trades. For example, customers may
25 opt to not trade with a particular counter party if their trading history associated
   with an identifier for that counter party becomes unfavorable.
            In some embodiments, a bank may classify customers in different tiers
   based on their respective profiles. Each tier may be associated with a set of
   conditions or rules that have to be met by the customer who is classified in the tier
30  in order for the customer to enter in to trades. For example, each tier may be
   associated with a different set of prices below or above which, the bank is
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                     26

   unwilling to allow the customer to trade. As more trades are entered into with
   different customers, the bank may reclassify these customers into the different
   tiers. Depending on the tier in which a particular customer is classified, the bank
   may allow the customer to trade at, for example, a particular price, or may simply
 5 not allow the customer to trade at all. With regard to the functionality discussed
   above, the bank role may be fulfilled by any system provider or any other
   trader/user. Similarly, the role of the customer may be fulfilled by other
   traders/users and system providers. Accordingly, the methods and system
   discussed herein are not limited thereto.
10          Referring to Fig. 2, the methods disclosed herein may be implemented in an
   electronic trading/gaming system 200 that may include at least one computing
   device, such as one or more local or remote client device 202, a server computer
   204, or a combination thereof. The one or more client device s may be coupled
   over at least one communication network 206 to the server computer 204. The
15 server 204 may be linked to a back office clearing center.
            The computing device generally includes at least one processor, and a
   memory, such as ROM, RAM, FLASH, etc., including computer readable medium
   type memory, such as a hard drive, a flash-drive, an optical or magnetic disk, etc.
   The memory or computer readable medium preferably includes software stored
20 thereon that when executed performs one or more steps of the methods disclosed
    herein, including communicating data and commands back and forth between the
   computers, displaying interface screens, etc. The computers may also be
    associated with or have access to one or more databases 208 for retrieving and/or
    storing the various types of data and/or user profile(s) discussed herein.
25           The server computer 204 may be any suitable server, processor, memory,
   computer (special purpose or otherwise), data processing device, or combination
    thereof that is used to implement the governing logic that processes orders and
   executes trades communicated from various client device s, and distributes trade
    and market information, including price and size information, and anonymous
30  identifiers to the client device s, as well as the other information disclosed herein.
    The computer network may include the Internet, an intranet, a wide-area network
    06-I 26WO_070427_AP.doc                     27

   (WAN), a local-area network (LAN), a wireless network, a digital subscriber line
   (DSL) network, a frame relay network, an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM)
   network, a virtual private network (VPN), or any combination of the same.
           The client devices 202 may be personal computers, laptop computers,
 5 mainframe computers, dumb terminals, data displays, Internet browsers, Personal
   Digital Assistants (PDAs), two-way pagers, wireless terminals, portable
   telephones, etc., or any combination of the same. These client devices may be
   used by participants, such as anonymous users to enter bid, ask, buy, and sell
   orders for the items being traded, etc., and view market activity corresponding to
10 these items. The client device 202 may run a trading application in accordance
   with the principles disclosed herein and may be used to enter orders with
   anonymous traders on desired items and to execute and monitor trades. The back
   office clearing center may be any suitable equipment, such as a computer, a laptop
   computer, a mainframe computer, etc., or any combination of the same, for causing
15 trades to be executed, e.g., settled and/or verifying that trades are settled. In the
   context of the gaming environment, the client device 202 may be user to
   communicate gaming commands and interact with other users in one or more
   games supported by the system.
           In at least one embodiment, the client device 202 includes or is otherwise
20 associated with at least one biometric sensor 210. The biometric sensor is any
   device that is used to determine directly from the user at least one item of
   biometric data associated with a user, such as a fingerprint reader, an iris scanner, a
   retinal scanner, a vascular pattern reader, a facial recognition camera, etc. The
   biometric sensor may be embodied in hardware, software, or a combination
25 thereof. The biometric sensor may further share resources with other components
   of the system.
           Biometric data is generally obtained with the biometric sensor and may be
   used at least to authenticate the identity of the user as a gateway for allowing the
   user to access the system's functionality. In this regard, biometric data may be
30 compared with previously obtained/stored biometric data that has preferably been
   06-1126WO_070427_AP.doc                    28

   verified as being associated with a particular user and access to the system's
   functionality may be provided based on a positive match thereof.
           Referring to Fig. 3, a market display interface screen 300 according to one
   embodiment includes therein market data 302 for at least one item. The market
 5 data may be arranged in a variety of ways. In one embodiment, bid and ask data
   are logically separated, e.g., in columns 304, 306. Best bid and offer data may be
   displayed in a common row 308 with bids and offers stacked in a queue in
   opposing directions from the best bid and offer row. As noted above, the market
   display may be displayed based on the controls set up by the user and/or the users.
10 For example, anonymous origination may be indicated with the anonymous
   identifier displayed with the order originating there from, such as AOOI-A003.
   Anonymous origination may also be indicated by leaving the Bidder/User ID
   empty. Blocked orders may be excluded from the market display or they may be
   hidden in that they appear as a blank row between orders. Tiers may be indicated
15 by locking, hiding, and/or highlighting orders. For example, tier I orders may be
   shown in normal font, tier 2 may be shown in bold, and tier 3 may be shown in
   bold and italics.
            Similarly, tier information may be displayed with the orders, e.g., in an
   adjacent cell or popup window 310. Statistics between the requesting user and the
20 order originator may similarly be displayed, e.g., in an adjacent cell or popup
   window 310. The popup window may be displayed when, for example, the
   requesting user moves a pointer over the order in the market display. Orders in the
   queue may generally be arranged by price (best to worst) and then by time
   received. Tier and statistics may similarly be displayed in the gaming interface
25 screen. That is, tier information and statistics between the requesting user and the
   opponent may be displayed adjacent to the opponent or in a popup window.
            One of ordinary skill in the art should appreciate that the methods and
   systems of the present application may be practiced in embodiments other than
   those described herein. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative
30 of the principles of the invention, and that various modifications can be made by
   06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                     29

those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention
or inventions disclosed herein.
06-1126WO_070427_AP doc                   30

What is Claimed is:
         1.       A method comprising:
         tracking, by at least one processor, game play involving a first user and at least
one other user;
         receiving, by the at least one processor, a request from the at least one other user
to initiate at least one game with the first user;
         retrieving, by the at least one processor, game history data specific to the first user
and the at least one other user;
         retrieving, by the at least one processor, at least one rule for controlling
interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user in the gaming
environment, in which the anonymous users comprises users who are anonymous to the
at least one other user, the anonymous users comprising the first user at the time the
request from the at least one other user is received; and
         disposing, by the at least one processor, the request to initiate the at least one
game with the first user based at least on the game history data and the at least one rule
for controlling interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user,
         in which game rules govern play of the game,
         in which the game comprises an end time and a non-zero duration of the game,
and
         in which at least one winner wins the game.
         2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one game comprises at least
one of poker, blackjack, craps, roulette, baccarat, wheel of fortune, keno, horse racing,
dog racing, auto racing, and a lottery game.
         3.       The method of claim 1,
         further comprising assigning at least one anonymous identifier to the first user,
         wherein disposing the request to initiate the at least one game comprises
highlighting the at least one anonymous identifier assigned to the first user in the at least
one game, and
                                               31

         wherein the act of disposing the request to initiate the at least one game with the
first user based at least on the game history data comprises disposing the request to
initiate the at least one game with the first user based on win/loss statistics for at least one
game in which the first user and the at least one other user competed.
         4.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         initiating game play between at least the first user and the at least one other user;
and
         displaying at least one interface screen for at least the first user and the at least
one other user to play the at least one game.
         5.       The method of claim 1,
         further comprising assigning a plurality of anonymous identifiers to the first user,
         wherein disposing the request to initiate the at least one game comprises
highlighting at least one of the plurality anonymous identifiers assigned to the first user in
the at least one game.
         6.       The method of claim 5, wherein:
         the plurality of anonymous identifiers are assigned periodically,
         the first user previously played a first game under a first anonymous identifier,
         the at least one other user previously played the first game under a second
anonymous identifier,
         the first user plays a second game under a third anonymous identifier different
from the first anonymous identifier, and
         the at least one other user plays the second game under a fourth anonymous
identifier different from the second anonymous identifier.
         7.       The method of claim 5, wherein:
         the plurality of anonymous identifiers are each assigned at a trigger event,
         the first user previously played a first game under a first anonymous identifier,
                                                32

         the at least one other user previously played the first game under a second
anonymous identifier,
         the first user plays a second game under a third anonymous identifier different
from the first anonymous identifier, and
         the at least one other user plays the second game under a fourth anonymous
identifier different from the second anonymous identifier.
         8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the trigger event comprises initiating
game play with the first user.
         9.       The method of claim 1, wherein disposing the request to initiate the at
least one game comprises at least one of blocking, hiding, and highlighting indicia of the
first user in the at least one game.
         10.      An apparatus, comprising:
         at least one processor; and
         at least one memory having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by
the at least one processor, direct the at least one processor to:
                  track game play involving a first user and at least one other user;
                  receive a request from the at least one other user to initiate at least one
         game with the first user;
                  retrieve game history data specific to the first user and the at least one
         other user;
                  retrieve at least one rule for controlling interactions between anonymous
         users and the at least one other user in the gaming environment, in which the
         anonymous users comprises users who are anonymous to the at least one other
         user, the anonymous users comprising the first user at the time the request from
         the at least one other user is received; and
                  dispose the request to initiate the at least one game with the first user
         based at least on the game history data and the at least one rule for controlling
         interactions between anonymous users and the at least one other user,
                                                 33

                  in which game rules govern play of the game,
                  in which the game comprises an end time and a non-zero duration of the
         game, and
                  in which at least one winner wins the game.
         11.      The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one game comprises at
least one of poker, blackjack, craps, roulette, and baccarat.
         12.      The apparatus of claim 10, in which the instructions, when executed by the
at least one processor, further direct the at least one processor to:
         assign at least one anonymous identifier to the first user,
         wherein disposing the request to initiate the at least one game comprises
highlighting the at least one anonymous identifier assigned to the first user in the at least
one game.
         13.      The apparatus of claim 10, in which the instructions, when executed by the
at least one processor, further direct the at least one processor to:
         initiate game play between at least the first user and the at least one other user;
and
         display at least one interface screen for at least the first user and the at least one
other user to play the at least one game.
         14.      The apparatus of claim 10, in which the instructions, when executed by the
at least one processor, further direct the at least one processor to:
         assign a plurality of anonymous identifiers to the first user,
         wherein disposing the request to initiate the at least one game comprises
highlighting at least one of the plurality anonymous identifiers assigned to the first user in
the at least one game, and
         wherein the act of disposing the request to initiate the at least one game with the
first user based at least on the game history data comprises disposing the request to
                                                34

initiate the at least one game with the first user based on win/loss statistics for at least one
game in which the first user and the at least one other user competed.
         15.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein:
         the plurality of anonymous identifiers are assigned periodically,
         the first user previously played a first game under a first anonymous identifier,
         the at least one other user previously played the first game under a second
anonymous identifier,
         the first user plays a second game under a third anonymous identifier different
from the first anonymous identifier, and
         the at least one other user plays the second game under a fourth anonymous
identifier different from the second anonymous identifier.
         16.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein:
         the plurality of anonymous identifiers are each assigned at a trigger event, the
trigger event comprising initiation of game play with the first user,
         the first user previously played a first game under a first anonymous identifier,
         the at least one other user previously played the first game under a second
anonymous identifier,
         the first user plays a second game under a third anonymous identifier different
from the first anonymous identifier, and
         the at least one other user plays the second game under a fourth anonymous
identifier different from the second anonymous identifier.
         17.      The apparatus of claim 10, wherein disposing the request to initiate the at
least one game comprises at least one of blocking, hiding, and highlighting indicia of the
first user in the at least one game.
         18.      The apparatus of claim 10, in which the instructions, when executed by the
at least one processor, further direct the at least one processor to:
                                                35

         prior to the act of disposing the request to initiate the at least one game with the
first user, receive a user preference from a first user for maintaining an identity of the
first user anonymous during the at least one game.
         19.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         prior to the act of disposing the request to initiate the at least one game with the
first user, receiving, by the at least one processor, a user preference from a first user for
maintaining an identity of the first user anonymous during the at least one game.
         20.     A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored
thereon that are configured to cause at least one processor to:
         track game play involving a first user and at least one other user;
         receive a request from the at least one other user to initiate at least one game with
the first user;
         retrieve game history data specific to the first user and the at least one other user;
         retrieve at least one rule for controlling interactions between anonymous users
and the at least one other user in the gaming environment, in which the anonymous users
comprises users who are anonymous to the at least one other user, the anonymous users
comprising the first user at the time the request from the at least one other user is
received; and
         dispose the request to initiate the at least one game with the first user based at
least on the game history data and the at least one rule for controlling interactions
between anonymous users and the at least one other user,
         in which game rules govern play of the game,
         in which the game comprises an end time and a non-zero duration of the game,
and
         in which at least one winner wins the game.
                                                 36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
