                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       Selective high-frequency spinal chord modulation for inhibiting pain with reduced
side affects and associated systems and methods are disclosed.              In particular
embodiments, high-frequency modulation in the range of from about 1.5 KHz to about
50 KHz may be applied to the patient's spinal chord region to address low back pain
without creating unwanted sensory and/or motor side affects. In other embodiments,
modulation in accordance with similar parameters can be applied to other spinal or
peripheral locations to address other indications.

WO 2010/124139                  PCT/US20101032124
                     1/15
                        110
                   11
                   108
                                            106
                    112
 105           121
                            120
                   Fig. I1A

        SELECTIVE HIGH FREQUENCY SPINAL CORD MODULATION FOR
              INHIBITING PAIN WITH REDUCED SIDE EFFECTS, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/176,868, filed May 8, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference. The present
application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/171,790, filed April 22,
2009 and incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]       The present disclosure is directed generally to selective high frequency
spinal cord modulation for inhibiting pain with reduced side effects, and associated
systems and methods.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       Neurological stimulators have been developed to treat pain, movement
disorders, functional disorders, spasticity, cancer, cardiac disorders, and various other
medical conditions.     Implantable neurological stimulation systems generally have an
implantable pulse generator and one or more leads that deliver electrical pulses to
neurological tissue or muscle tissue.      For example, several neurological stimulation
systems for spinal cord stimulation (SCS) have cylindrical leads that include a lead
body with a circular cross-sectional shape and one or more conductive rings spaced
apart from each other at the distal end of the lead body. The conductive rings operate
as   individual electrodes    and,  in many cases, the SCS          leads are implanted
percutaneously through a large needle inserted into the epidural space, with or without
the assistance of a stylet.
[0004]       Once implanted, the pulse generator applies electrical pulses to the
electrodes, which in turn modify the function of the patient's nervous system, such as
by altering the patient's responsiveness to sensory stimuli and/or altering the patient's
                                              -1-

[00051        motor-circuit output.    In pain treatment, the pulse generator applies
electrical pulses to the electrodes, which in turn can generate sensations that mask or
otherwise alter the patient's sensation of pain. For example, in many cases, patients
report a tingling or paresthesia that is perceived as more pleasant and/or less
uncomfortable than the underlying pain sensation. While this may be the case for many
patients, many other patients may report less beneficial effects and/or results.
Accordingly, there remains a need for improved techniques and systems for addressing
patient pain.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]        Figure 1A is a partially schematic illustration of an implantable spinal cord
modulation system positioned at the spine to deliver therapeutic signals in accordance
with several embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0007]        Figure 1B is a partially schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a patient's
spine, illustrating representative locations for implanted lead bodies in accordance with
embodiments of the disclosure.
[0008]        Figure 2 is a bar chart illustrating pain reduction levels for patients over a
four day period of a clinical study, during which the patients received therapy in
accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure, as compared with baseline levels
and levels achieved with conventional spinal cord stimulation devices.
[0009]        Figure 3 is a bar chart comparing the number of times patients receiving
therapy in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure during a clinical
study initiated modulation changes, as compared with similar data for patients receiving
conventional spinal cord stimulation.
[0010]        Figure 4 is a bar chart illustrating activity performance improvements for
patients receiving therapy in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure,
obtained during a clinical study.
[0011]        Figure 5A is a bar chart comparing activity performance levels for patients
performing a variety of activities, obtained during a clinical study.
                                                -2-

[0012]        Figures 5B and 5C are bar charts illustrating sleep improvement for patients
receiving therapy in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure, obtained during a
clinical study.
[0013]        Figure 6A is a bar chart illustrating successful therapy outcomes as a
function of modulation location for patients receiving therapy in accordance with an
embodiment of the disclosure, obtained during a clinical study.
[0014]        Figures 6B and 6C are flow diagrams illustrating methods conducted in
accordance with embodiments of the disclosure.
[0015]        Figure 7A illustrates an arrangement of leads used during a follow-on
clinical study in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure.
[0016]        Figure 7B illustrates results obtained from a follow-on clinical study of
patients receiving therapy in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure.
[0017]        Figure 8 is a schematic illustration identifying possible mechanisms of
action for therapies in accordance with the present disclosure, as compared with an
expected mechanism of action for conventional spinal chord stimulation.
[0018]        Figure 9 is a partially schematic illustration of a lead body configured in
accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure.
[0019]        Figures 10A-10C are partially schematic illustrations of extendible leads
configured in accordance with several embodiments of the disclosure.
[0020]        Figures 11A-11C are partially schematic illustrations of multifilar leads
configured in accordance with several embodiments of the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
1.0     Introduction
[0021]       The present technology is directed generally to spinal cord modulation and
associated systems and methods for inhibiting pain via waveforms with high frequency
elements or components         (e.g., portions having high fundamental frequencies),
generally with reduced or eliminated side effects.         Such side effects can include
unwanted motor stimulation or blocking, and/or interference with sensory functions
other than the targeted pain. Several embodiments also provide simplified spinal cord
                                              -3-

modulation systems and components, and simplified procedures for the practitioner
and/or the patient.     Specific details of certain embodiments of the disclosure are
described below with reference to methods for modulating one or more target neural
populations (e.g., nerves) or sites of a patient, and associated implantable structures for
providing the modulation.    Although selected embodiments are described below with
reference to modulating the dorsal column, dorsal horn, dorsal root, dorsal root entry
zone, and/or other particular regions of the spinal column to control pain, the
modulation may in some instances be directed to other neurological structures and/or
target neural populations of the spinal cord and/or other neurological tissues. Some
embodiments can have configurations, components or procedures different than those
described in this section, and other embodiments may eliminate particular components
or procedures. A person of ordinary skill in the relevant art, therefore, will understand
that the disclosure may include other embodiments with additional elements, and/or
may include other embodiments without several of the features shown and described
below with reference to Figures 1A-i 1C.
[0022]       In general terms, aspects of many of the following embodiments are
directed to producing a therapeutic effect that includes pain reduction in the patient.
The therapeutic effect can be produced by inhibiting, suppressing, downregulating,
blocking, preventing, or otherwise modulating the activity of the affected neural
population.    In many embodiments of the presently disclosed techniques, therapy
induced paresthesia is not a prerequisite to achieving pain reduction, unlike standard
SCS techniques. It is expected that the techniques described below with reference to
Figures 1A-11C can produce more effective, more robust, less complicated and/or
otherwise more desirable results than can existing spinal cord stimulation therapies.
[0023]       Figure 1A schematically illustrates a representative treatment system 100
for providing relief from chronic pain and/or other conditions, arranged relative to the
general anatomy of a patient's spinal cord 191.       The system 100 can include a pulse
generator 101, which may be implanted subcutaneously within a patient 190 and
coupled to a signal delivery element 110.         In a representative example, the signal
delivery element 110 includes a lead or lead body 111 that carries features for
delivering therapy to the patient 190 after implantation. The pulse generator 101 can
be connected directly to the lead 111, or it can be coupled to the lead 111 via a
communication link 102 (e.g., an extension). Accordingly, the lead 111 can include a
                                              -4-

terminal section that is releasably connected to an extension at a break 114 (shown
schematically in Figure 1A).      This allows a single type of terminal section to be used
with patients of different body types (e.g., different heights). As used herein, the terms
lead and lead body include any of a number of suitable substrates and/or support
members that carry devices for providing therapy signals to the patient 190.               For
example, the lead 111 can include one or more electrodes or electrical contacts that
direct electrical signals into the patient's tissue, such as to provide for patient relief. In
other embodiments, the signal delivery element 110 can include devices other than a
lead body (e.g., a paddle) that also direct electrical signals and/or other types of signals
to the patient 190.
[0024]       The pulse generator 101 can transmit signals (e.g., electrical signals) to the
signal delivery element 110 that up-regulate (e.g., stimulate or excite) and/or down
regulate (e.g., block or suppress) target nerves. As used herein, and unless otherwise
noted, the terms "modulate" and "modulation" refer generally to signals that have either
type of the foregoing effects on the target nerves. The pulse generator 101 can include
a machine-readable (e.g., computer-readable) medium containing instructions for
generating and transmitting suitable therapy signals. The pulse generator 101 and/or
other elements of the system 100 can include one or more processors 107, memories
108 and/or input/output devices.        Accordingly, the process of providing modulation
signals and executing other associated functions can be performed by computer
executable     instructions   contained    on   computer-readable    media,   e.g.,   at the
processor(s) 107 and/or memory(s) 108. The pulse generator 101 can include multiple
portions, elements, and/or subsystems (e.g., for directing signals in accordance with
multiple signal delivery parameters), housed in a single housing, as shown in Figure
1A, or in multiple housings.
[0025]       The pulse generator 101 can also receive and respond to an input signal
received from one or more sources.           The input signals can direct or influence the
manner in which the therapy instructions are selected, executed, updated and/or
otherwise performed. The input signal can be received from one or more sensors 112
(one is shown schematically in Figure 1 for purposes of illustration) that are carried by
the pulse generator 101 and/or distributed outside the pulse generator 101 (e.g., at
other patient locations) while still communicating with the pulse generator 101.          The
sensors 112 can provide inputs that depend on or reflect patient state (e.g., patient
                                                 -5-

position, patient posture and/or patient activity level), and/or inputs that are patient
independent (e.g., time). In other embodiments, inputs can be provided by the patient
and/or the practitioner, as described in further detail later.    Still further details are
included in co-pending U.S. Application No. 12/703,683, filed on February 10, 2010 and
incorporated herein by reference.
[0026]        In some embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can obtain power to
generate the therapy signals from an external power source 103. The external power
source    103 can transmit power to the implanted pulse generator 101                 using
electromagnetic induction (e.g., RF signals). For example, the external power source
103 can include an external coil 104 that communicates with a corresponding internal
coil (not shown) within the implantable pulse generator 101. The external power source
103 can be portable for ease of use.
[0027]        In another embodiment, the pulse generator 101 can obtain the power to
generate therapy signals from an internal power source, in addition to or in lieu of the
external power source 103.         For example, the implanted pulse generator 101 can
include a non-rechargeable battery or a rechargeable battery to provide such power.
When the internal power source includes a rechargeable battery, the external power
source 103 can be used to recharge the battery. The external power source 103 can in
turn be recharged from a suitable power source (e.g., conventional wall power).
[0028]        In some cases, an external programmer 105 (e.g., a trial modulator) can be
coupled to the signal delivery element 110 during an initial implant procedure, prior to
implanting the pulse generator 101.        For example, a practitioner (e.g., a physician
and/or a company representative) can use the external programmer 105 to vary the
modulation parameters provided to the signal delivery element 110 in real time, and
select optimal or particularly efficacious parameters. These parameters can include the
position of the signal delivery element 110, as well as the characteristics of the
electrical signals provided to the signal delivery element 110. In a typical process, the
practitioner uses a cable assembly 120 to temporarily connect the external programmer
105 to the signal delivery device 110. The cable assembly 120 can accordingly include
a first connector 121 that is releasably connected to the external programmer 105, and
a second connector 122 that is releasably connected to the signal delivery element 110.
Accordingly, the signal delivery element 110 can include a connection element that
                                               -6-

allows it to be connected to a signal generator either directly (if it is long enough) or
indirectly (if it is not).  The practitioner can test the efficacy of the signal delivery
element 110 in an initial position.       The practitioner can then disconnect the cable
assembly 120, reposition the signal delivery element 110, and reapply the electrical
modulation. This process can be performed iteratively until the practitioner obtains the
desired position for the signal delivery device 110.       Optionally, the practitioner may
move the partially implanted signal delivery element 110 without disconnecting the
cable assembly 120.          Further details of suitable cable assembly methods and
associated techniques are described in co-pending U.S. Application No. 12/562,892,
filed on September 18, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.               As will be
discussed in further detail later, particular aspects of the present disclosure can
advantageously reduce or eliminate the foregoing iterative process.
[0029]        After the position of the signal delivery element 110 and appropriate signal
delivery parameters are established using the external programmer 105, the patient
190 can receive therapy via signals generated by the external programmer 105,
generally for a limited period of time. In a representative application, the patient 190
receives such therapy for one week. During this time, the patient wears the cable
assembly 120 and the external programmer 105 outside the body. Assuming the trial
therapy is effective or shows the promise of being effective, the practitioner then
replaces the external programmer 105 with the implanted pulse generator 101, and
programs the pulse generator 101 with parameters selected based on the experience
gained during the trial period. Optionally, the practitioner can also replace the signal
delivery element 110. Once the implantable pulse generator 101 has been positioned
within the patient 190, the signal delivery parameters provided by the pulse generator
101 can still be updated remotely via a wireless physician's programmer (e.g., a
physician's remote) 111 and/or a wireless patient programmer 106 (e.g., a patient
remote). Generally, the patient 190 has control over fewer parameters than does the
practitioner. For example, the capability of the patient programmer 106 may be limited
to starting and/or stopping the pulse generator 101, and/or adjusting the signal
amplitude.
[0030]        In any of the foregoing embodiments, the parameters in accordance with
which the pulse generator 101 provides signals can be modulated during portions of the
therapy regimen.      For example, the frequency, amplitude, pulse width and/or signal
                                                -7-

delivery location can be modulated in accordance with a preset program, patient and/or
physician inputs, and/or in a random or pseudorandom manner.              Such parameter
variations can be used to address a number of potential clinical situations, including
changes in the patient's perception of pain, changes in the preferred target neural
population, and/or patient accommodation or habituation.
[0031]       Certain aspects of the foregoing systems and methods may be simplified or
eliminated in particular embodiments of the present disclosure. For example, in at least
some instances, the therapeutic signals delivered by the system can produce an effect
that is much less sensitive to lead location and signal delivery parameters (e.g.,
amplitude) than are conventional stimulation systems. Accordingly, as noted above,
the trial and error process (or parts of this process) for identifying a suitable lead
location and associated signal delivery parameters during the lead implant procedure
can be eliminated. In addition to or in lieu of this simplification, the post-lead implant
trial period can be eliminated. In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing simplifications,
the process of selecting signal delivery parameters and administering the signals on a
long-term basis can be significantly simplified.    Further aspects of these and other
expected beneficial results are discussed in greater detail below.
2.0     Representative Therapy Parameters
[0032]       Nevro Corporation, the assignee of the present application, has conducted
a multi-site clinical study during which multiple patients were first treated with
conventional spinal chord stimulation (SCS) techniques, and then with newly developed
techniques that are disclosed further below. This study was followed up by a further
clinical study focusing on the newly developed techniques, which confirmed and
expanded on results obtained during the initial study.      Multiple embodiments of the
newly developed techniques, therapies and/or systems are referred to as presently
disclosed techniques,       therapies, and/or systems, or more generally as presently
disclosed technologies.
             2.1.   Initial Comparison Study
[0033]       Prior to the initial clinical study, selected patients were identified as
suffering from primary chronic low back pain (e.g., neuropathic pain, and/or nociceptive
pain, and/or other types of pain, depending upon the patient), either alone or in
combination with pain affecting other areas, typically the patient's leg(s). In all cases,
                                              -8-

the low back pain was dominant. During the study, the patients were outfitted with two
leads, each implanted in the spinal region in a manner generally similar to that shown in
Figure 1A. One lead was implanted on one side of the spinal cord midline 189, and the
other lead was implanted on the other side of the spinal cord midline 189. Figure 1B is
a cross-sectional illustration of the spinal cord 191 and an adjacent vertebra 195 (based
generally on information from Crossman and Neary, "Neuroanatomy," 1995 (published
by Churchill Livingstone)), along with the locations at which leads 110 were implanted
in a representative patient. The spinal cord 191 is situated between a ventrally located
ventral body 196 and the dorsally located transverse process 198 and spinous process
197. Arrows V and D identify the ventral and dorsal directions, respectively. The spinal
cord 191 itself is located within the dura mater 199, which also surrounds portions of
the nerves exiting the spinal cord 191, including the dorsal roots 193 and dorsal root
ganglia 194. The leads 110 were positioned just off the spinal cord midline 189 (e.g.,
about 1 mm. offset) in opposing lateral directions so that the two leads 110 were
spaced apart from each other by about 2 mm.
[0034]       Patients with the leads 110 located as shown in Figure 1B initially had the
leads positioned at vertebral levels T7-T8.        This location is typical for standard SCS
treatment of low back pain because it has generally been the case that at lower
(inferior) vertebral levels, standard SCS treatment produces undesirable side effects,
and/or is less efficacious. Such side effects include unwanted muscle activation and/or
pain.    Once the leads 110 were implanted, the patients received standard SCS
treatment for a period of five days. This treatment included stimulation at a frequency
of less than 1500 Hz (e.g., 60-80 Hz), a pulse width of 100-200 psec, and a duty cycle
of 100%. The amplitude of the signal (e.g., the current amplitude) was varied from
about 3 mA to about 10 mA. The amplitude was initially established during the implant
procedure. The amplitude was then changed by the patient on an as-desired basis
during the course of the study, as is typical for standard SCS therapies.
[0035]       After the patient completed the standard SCS portion of the study, the
patient then received        modulation   in  accordance with the presently disclosed
techniques. One aspect of these techniques included moving the leads 110 inferiorly,
so as to be located at vertebral levels T9, T1 0, T1 1, and/or T1 2. After the leads 110
were repositioned, the patient received therapeutic signals at a frequency of from about
3 kHz to about 10 kHz. In particular cases, the therapy was applied at 8 kHz, 9 kHz or
                                               -9-

10 kHz. These frequencies are significantly higher than the frequencies associated
with standard SCS, and accordingly, modulation at these and other representative
frequencies (e.g., from about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz) is occasionally referred to
herein as high frequency modulation. The modulation was applied generally at a duty
cycle of from about 50% to about 100%, with the modulation signal on for a period of
from about 1 msec. to about 2 seconds, and off for a period of from about 1 msec. to
about 1.5 seconds. The width of the applied pulses was about 30-35 psec., and the
amplitude generally varied from about 1 mA to about 4 mA (nominally about 2.5 mA).
Modulation in accordance with the foregoing parameters was typically applied to the
patients for a period of about four days during the initial clinical study.
[0036]        Figures 2-6A graphically illustrate summaries of the clinical results obtained
by testing patients in accordance with the foregoing parameters. Figure 2 is a bar chart
illustrating the patients' Visual Analog Scale (VAS) pain score for a variety of
conditions.    The scores indicated in Figure 2 are for overall pain.       As noted above,
these patients suffered primarily from low back pain and accordingly, the pain scores
for low back pain alone were approximately the same as those shown in Figure 2.
Each of the bars represents an average of the values reported by the multiple patients
involved in this portion of the study. Bars 201 and 202 illustrate a baseline pain level of
8.7 for the patients without the benefit of medication, and a baseline level of 6.8 with
medication, respectively. After receiving a lead implant on day zero of the study, and
initiating high frequency modulation in accordance with the foregoing parameters,
patients reported an average pain score of about 4.0, as represented by bar 203. Over
the course of the next three days, (represented by bars 204-213) the patients recorded
pain levels in a diary every morning, midday and evening, as indicated by the
correspondingly labeled bars in Figure 2. In addition, pain levels were recorded daily
by the local center research coordinator on case report forms (CRFs) as indicated by
the correspondingly labeled bars in Figure 2.        During this time period, the patients'
average pain score gradually decreased to a reported minimum level of about 2.2
(represented by bars 212 and 213).
[0037]        For purposes of comparison, bar 214 illustrates the pain score for the same
patients receiving standard SCS therapy earlier in the study. Bar 214 indicates that the
average pain value for standard SCS therapy was 3.8.               Unlike the results of the
presently disclosed therapy, standard SCS therapy tended to produce relatively flat
                                               -10-

patient pain results over the course of several days. Comparing bars 213 and 214, the
clinical results indicate that the presently disclosed therapy reduced pain by 42% when
compared with standard SCS therapy.
[0038]        Other pain indices indicated generally consistent results. On the Oswestry
Disability Index, average scores dropped from a baseline value of 54 to a value of 33,
which is equivalent to a change from "severe disability" to "moderate disability".
Patients' global improvement scores ranked 1.9 on a scale of 1 ("very much improved")
to 7 ("very much worse").
[0039]        In addition to obtaining greater pain relief with the presently disclosed
therapy than with standard SCS therapy, patients experienced other benefits as well,
described further below with reference to Figures 3-5C.            Figure 3 is a bar chart
illustrating the number of times per day that the patients initiated modulation changes.
Results are illustrated for standard SCS therapy (bar 301) and the presently disclosed
therapy (bar 302). The patient-initiated modulation changes were generally changes in
the amplitude of the applied signal, and were initiated by the patient via an external
modulator or remote, such as was described above with reference to Figure 1A.
Patients receiving standard SCS therapy initiated changes to the signal delivery
parameters an average of 44 times per day.           The initiated changes were typically
triggered when the patient changed position, activity level, and/or activity type, and then
experienced a reduction in pain relief and/or an unpleasant, uncomfortable, painful,
unwanted or unexpected sensation from the therapeutic signal. Patients receiving the
presently disclosed therapy did not change the signal delivery parameters at all, except
at the practitioners' request. In particular, the patients did not change signal amplitude
to avoid painful stimulation. Accordingly, Figure 3 indicates that the presently disclosed
therapy is significantly less sensitive to lead movement, patient position, activity level
and activity type than is standard SCS therapy.
[0040]        Figure 4 is a bar graph illustrating activity scores for patients receiving the
presently disclosed therapy.       The activity score is a quality of life score indicating
generally the patients' level of satisfaction with the amount of activity that they are able
to undertake. As indicated in Figure 4, bar 401 identifies patients having a score of 1.9
(e.g., poor to fair) before beginning therapy. The score improved over time (bars 402
404) so that at the end of the second day of therapy, patients reported a score of nearly
                                               -11-

3 (corresponding to a score of "good").          It is expected that in longer studies, the
patients' score may well improve beyond the results shown in Figure 4.             Even the
results shown in Figure 4, however, indicate a 53% improvement (compared to
baseline) in the activity score for patients receiving the presently disclosed therapy over
a three day period.     Anecdotally, patients also indicated that they were more active
when receiving the presently disclosed therapy than they were when receiving standard
SCS therapy.      Based on anecdotal reports, it is expected that patients receiving
standard SCS therapy would experience only a 10 - 15% improvement in activity score
over the same period of time.
[0041]       Figure 5A is a bar chart illustrating changes in activity score for patients
receiving the presently disclosed therapy and performing six activities:           standing,
walking, climbing, sitting, riding in a car, and eating.       For each of these activities,
groups of bars (with individual groups identified by reference numbers 501, 502, 503 ...
506) indicate that the patients' activity score generally improved over the course of
time. These results further indicate that the improvement in activity was broad-based
and not limited to a particular activity. Still further, these results indicate a significant
level of improvement in each activity, ranging from 30% for eating to 80% - 90% for
standing, walking and climbing stairs. Anecdotally, it is expected that patients receiving
standard SCS treatment would experience only about 10% - 20% improvement in
patient activity.   Also anecdotally, the improvement in activity level was directly
observed in at least some patients who were hunched over when receiving standard
SCS treatment, and were unable to stand up straight. By contrast, these patients were
able to stand up straight and engage in other normal activities when receiving the
presently disclosed therapy.
[0042]       The   improvement      experienced      by  the  patients  is  not  limited   to
improvements in activity but also extends to relative inactivity, including sleep.        For
example, patients receiving standard SCS therapy may establish a signal delivery
parameter at a particular level when lying prone. When the patient rolls over while
sleeping, the patient may experience a significant enough change in the pain reduction
provided by standard SCS treatments to cause the patient to wake. In many cases, the
patient may additionally experience pain generated by the SCS signal itself, on top of
the pain the SCS signal is intended to reduce. With the presently disclosed techniques,
by contrast, this undesirable effect can be avoided. Figures 5B and 5C illustrate the
                                               -12-

average effect on sleep for clinical patients receiving the presently disclosed therapy.
Figure 5B illustrates the reduction in patient disturbances, and Figure 5C illustrates the
increase in number of hours slept. In other embodiments, the patient may be able to
perform other tasks with reduced pain. For example, patients may drive without having
to adjust the therapy level provided by the implanted device. Accordingly, the presently
disclosed therapy may be more readily used by patients in such situations and/or other
situations that improve the patients' quality of life.
[0043]         Based on additional patient feedback, every one of the tested patients who
received the presently disclosed therapy at the target location (e.g., who received the
presently disclosed therapy without the lead migrating significantly from its intended
location) preferred the presently disclosed therapy to standard SCS therapy.               In
addition, irrespective of the level of pain relief the patients received, 88% of the patients
preferred the presently disclosed therapy to standard SCS therapy because it reduced
their pain without creating paresthesia. This indicates that while patients may prefer
paresthesia to pain, a significant majority prefer no sensation to both pain and
paresthesia. This result, obtained via the presently disclosed therapy, is not available
with standard SCS therapies that are commonly understood to rely on paresthesia (i.e.,
masking) to produce pain relief.
[0044]        Still further, anecdotal data indicate that patients receiving the presently
disclosed therapy experienced less muscle capture than they experienced with
standard SCS. In particular, patients reported a lack of spasms, cramps, and muscle
pain, some or all of which they experienced when receiving standard SCS.             Patients
also reported no interference with volitional muscle action, and instead indicated that
they were able to perform motor tasks unimpeded by the presently disclosed therapy.
Still further, patients reported no interference with other sensations, including sense of
touch (e.g., detecting vibration), temperature and proprioception.           In most cases,
patients reported no interference with nociceptive pain sensation.         However, in some
cases, patients reported an absence of incision pain (associated with the incision used
to implant the signal delivery lead) or an absence of chronic peripheral pain (associated
with arthritis).     Accordingly, in particular embodiments, aspects of the currently
disclosed techniques may be used to address nociceptive pain, including acute
peripheral pain, and/or chronic peripheral pain. For example, in at least some cases,
patients with low to moderate nociceptive pain received relief as a result of the
                                               -13-

foregoing therapy.     Patients with more severe/chronic nociceptive pain were typically
not fully responsive to the present therapy techniques. This result may be used in a
diagnostic setting to distinguish the types of pain experienced by the patients, as will be
discussed in greater detail later.
[0045]        Figure 6A is a bar chart indicating the number of successful therapeutic
outcomes as a function of the location (indicated by vertebral level) of the active
contacts on the leads that provided the presently disclosed therapy. In some cases,
patients obtained successful outcomes when modulation was provided at more than
one vertebral location. As indicated in Figure 6A, successful outcomes were obtained
over a large axial range (as measured in a superior-inferior direction along the spine)
from vertebral bodies T9 to T1 2. This is a surprising result in that it indicates that while
there may be a preferred target location (e.g., around T10), the lead can be positioned
at a wide variety of locations while still producing successful results.        In particular,
neighboring vertebral      bodies   are typically spaced apart from         each other     by
approximately 32 millimeters (depending on specific patient anatomy), and so
successful results were obtained over a broad range of four vertebral bodies (about 128
mm.) and a narrower range of one to two vertebral bodies (about 32-64 mm.).                By
contrast, standard SCS data generally indicate that the therapy may change from
effective to ineffective with a shift of as little as 1 mm. in lead location.     As will be
discussed in greater detail later, the flexibility and versatility associated with the
presently disclosed therapy can produce significant benefits for both the patient and the
practitioner.
[0046]        Figures 6B and 6C are flow diagrams illustrating methods for treating
patients in accordance with particular embodiments of the present disclosure.
Manufacturers or other suitable entities can provide instructions to practitioners for
executing these and other methods disclosed herein. Manufacturers can also program
devices of the disclosed systems to carry out at least some of these methods. Figure
6B illustrates a method 600 that includes implanting a signal generator in a patient
(block 610). The signal generator can be implanted at the patient's lower back or other
suitable location. The method 600 further includes implanting a signal delivery device
(e.g., a lead, paddle or other suitable device) at the patient's spinal cord region (block
620). This portion of the method can in turn include implanting the device (e.g., active
contacts of the device) at a vertebral level ranging from about T9 to about T12 (e.g.,
                                             -14-

about T9-T12, inclusive) (block 621), and at a lateral location ranging from the spinal
cord midline to the DREZ, inclusive (block 622). At block 630, the method includes
applying a high frequency waveform, via the signal generator and the signal delivery
device. In particular examples, the frequency of the signal (or at least a portion of the
signal) can be from about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz, or from about 1.5 kHz to about 50
kHz., or from about 3 kHz to about 20 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 15 kHz, or
from about 5 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 10 kHz. The method
600 further includes blocking, suppressing, inhibiting or otherwise reducing the patient's
pain, e.g., chronic low back pain (block 640). This portion of the method can in turn
include reducing pain without unwanted sensory effects and/or limitations (block 641),
and/or without motor effects (block 642). For example, block 641 can include reducing
or eliminating pain without reducing patient perception of other sensations, and/or
without triggering additional pain.  Block 642 can include reducing or eliminating pain
without triggering    muscle action     and/or    without interfering with   motor signal
transmission.
[0047]       Figure 6C illustrates a method 601 that includes features in addition to
those described above with reference to Figure 6B.          For example, the process of
applying a high frequency waveform (block 630) can include doing so over a wide
amplitude range (e.g., from less than 1 mA up to about 8 mA in one embodiment, and
up to about 6 mA and about 5 mA, respectively, in other embodiments) without creating
unwanted side effects, such as undesirable sensations and/or motor interference (block
631). In another embodiment, the process of applying a high frequency waveform can
include applying the waveform at a fixed amplitude (block 632). As described further
later, each of these aspects can provide patient and/or practitioner benefits.
[0048]       The process of blocking, suppressing or otherwise reducing patient pain
(block 640) can include doing so without creating paresthesia (block 643), or in
association with a deliberately generated paresthesia (block 644).       As noted above,
clinical results indicate that most patients prefer the absence of paresthesia to the
presence of paresthesia, e.g., because the sensation of paresthesia may change to an
uncomfortable or painful sensation when the patient changes position and/or adjusts
the signal amplitude.    However, in some cases, patients may prefer the sensation of
paresthesia (e.g., patients who have previously received SCS), and so can have the
option of receiving it.   Further details of methodologies that include combinations of
                                             -15-

paresthesia-inducing modulation and non-paresthesia-inducing modulation are included
in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/171,790, previously incorporated herein by
reference. In other cases, paresthesia may be used by the practitioner for site selection
(e.g., to determine the location at which active electrodes are positioned). In addition to
the above, reducing patient pain can include doing so with relative insensitivity to
patient attributes that standard SCS is normally highly sensitive to (block 645). These
attributes can include patient movement (block 646) and/or patient position (block 647).
              2.2.   Follow-on Study
[0049]        Nevro Corporation, the assignee of the present application, has conducted
a follow-on study to evaluate particular parameters and results of the therapy described
above.    In the follow-on study, patients received implanted leads and simulators, and
received therapy over a period of several months. This study did not include a direct
comparison with conventional SCS techniques for each patient, though some of the
patients received conventional SCS therapy prior to receiving modulation in accordance
with the present technology. Selected results are described further below.
[0050]        Figure 7A is a schematic illustration of a typical lead placement used during
the follow-on study.     In this study, two leads 111 (shown as a first lead 111 a and a
second lead 111 b) were positioned generally end-to-end to provide a modulation
capability that extends over several vertebral levels of the patients' spine. The leads
111 a, 111 b were positioned to overlap slightly, to account for possible shifts in lead
location.   During the course of the therapy, contacts C of the two leads 111 a, 111 b
were activated on one lead at a time. In other words, the contacts C of only one lead
111 were active at any one time, and signals were not directed between the contacts C
located on different leads 111. While two leads were used during the clinical study, it is
expected that in general use, a single lead can be positioned at the appropriate
vertebral level. The lead can have more widely spaced contacts to achieve the same or
similar effects as those described herein as will be described in greater detail below
with reference to Figure 9.
[0051]        The contacts C of each lead 111a, 111 b have a width W2 of approximately
3 mm, and are separated from each other by a distance D1 of approximately 1 mm.
Accordingly, the center-to-center spacing S between neighboring contacts C is
approximately 4 mm. The leads 111 a, 111 b were positioned at or close to the patients'
                                               -16-

spinal midline 189. Typically, one lead was positioned on one side of the midline 189,
and the other lead was positioned on the other side of the patients' midline 189. During
the course of the study, several significant effects were observed.       For example, the
leads 111 a, 111 b could be positioned at any of a variety of locations within a relatively
wide window W1 having an overall width of + 3-5 mm from the midline 189 (e.g., an
overall width of 6-10 mm), without significantly affecting the efficacy of the treatment. In
addition, patients with bilateral pain (e.g., on both sides of the midline 189) reported
bilateral relief, independent of the lateral location of the leads 11 0a, 11 Ob.          For
example, patients having a lead located within the window W1 on one side of the
midline 189 reported pain relief on the opposite side of the midline 189. This is unlike
conventional SCS therapies, for which bilateral relief, when it is obtained at all, is
generally very sensitive to any departure from a strictly midline lead location.          Still
further, the distance between neighboring active contacts was significantly greater than
is typical for standard SCS. Practitioners were able to "skip" (e.g., deactivate) several
consecutive contacts so that neighboring active contacts had a center-to-center spacing
of, for example, 20 mm, and an edge-to-edge spacing of, for example, 17 mm.                 In
addition, patients were relatively insensitive to the axial location of the active contacts.
For example, practitioners were able to establish the same or generally the same levels
of pain relief over a wide range of contact spacings that is expected to extend up to two
vertebral bodies (e.g., about 64 mm). Yet further, the practitioners obtained a similar
therapeutic effect whether a given contact was identified as cathodic or anodic, as is
described in greater detail in pending U.S. Application 12/                         (Attorney
Docket No. 66245.8024US), filed concurrently herewith and incorporated herein by
reference.
[0052]        For most patients in the follow-on study, the leads were implanted at the
T9-T1 0 vertebral locations.    These patients typically experienced primarily low back
pain prior to receiving the therapy, though some experienced leg pain as well. Based
on the results obtained during the follow-on study and the initial study, it is expected
that the overall vertebral location range for addressing low back pain is from about T9
to about T1 2. It is further expected that within this range, modulation at T1 2 or Ti 1-T1 2
may more effectively treat patients with both low back and leg pain. However, in some
cases, patients experienced greater leg pain relief at higher vertebral locations (e.g.,
T9-T10) and in still further particular cases, modulation at T9 produced more leg pain
                                              -17-

relief than modulation at T10. Accordingly, within the general ranges described above,
particular patients may have physiological characteristics or other factors that produce
corresponding preferred vertebral locations.
[0053]       Patients receiving treatment in the follow-on study received a square-wave
signal at a frequency of about 10 kHz. Patients received modulation at a 100% duty
cycle, with an initial current amplitude (bi-phasic) of about 2 mA.            Patients and
practitioners were able to adjust the signal amplitude, typically up to about 5 mA. At
any of the foregoing levels, the signal pulses are expected to be suprathreshold,
meaning that they can trigger an action potential in the target neural population,
independent of any intrinsic neural activity at the target neural population.
[0054]       Patients in the follow-on study were evaluated periodically after the
modulation system 100 was implanted and activated. The VAS scores reported by
these patients after 30 days of receiving treatment averaged about 1.0, indicating that
the trend discussed above with respect to Figure 2 continued for some period of time.
At least some of these patients reported an increase in the VAS score up to level of
about 2.25.     It is expected that this increase resulted from the patients' increased
activity level. Accordingly, it is not believed that this increase indicates a reduction in
the efficacy of the treatment, but rather, indicates an effective therapy that allows
patients to engage in activities they otherwise would not.
[0055]       Figure 7B illustrates overall Oswestry scores for patients engaging in a
variety of activities and receiving modulation in accordance with the follow-on study
protocol. A score of 100 corresponds to a completely disabled condition, and a score of
0 corresponds to no disability. These scores indicate a general improvement over time,
for example, consistent with and in fact improved over results from in the initial study.
In addition, several patients reported no longer needing or using canes or wheelchairs
after receiving therapy in accordance with the foregoing embodiments.
[0056]       Results from the follow-on study confirm a relative insensitivity of the
therapeutic effectiveness of the treatment to changes in current amplitude.               In
particular, patients typically received modulation at a level of from about 2.0 mA to
about 3.5 mA.        In most cases, patients did not report significant changes in pain
reduction when they changed the amplitude of the applied signal.           Patients were in
several cases able to increase the current amplitude up to a level of about 5 mA before
                                              -18-

reporting undesirable side effects. In addition, the side effects began to take place in a
gradual, rather than a sudden, manner.          Anecdotal feedback from some patients
indicated that at high amplitudes (e.g., above 5 mA) the treatment efficacy began to fall
off, independent of the onset of any undesirable side effects. It is further expected that
patients can receive effective therapy at current amplitudes of less than 2 mA. This
expectation is based at least in part on data indicating that reducing the duty cycle (e.g.,
to 70%) did not reduce efficacy.
[0057]       The results of the follow-on study also indicated that most patients (e.g.,
approximately 80% of the patients) experienced at least satisfactory pain reduction
without changing any aspect of the signal delivery parameters (e.g., the number and/or
location of active contacts, and/or the current amplitude), once the system was
implanted and activated. A small subset of the patients (e.g., about 20%) benefited
from an increased current amplitude when engaging in particular activities, and/or
benefited from a lower current amplitude when sleeping. For these patients, increasing
the signal amplitude while engaging in activity produced a greater degree of pain relief,
and reducing the amplitude at night reduced the likelihood of over-stimulation, while at
the same time saving power.        In a representative example, patients selected from
between two such programs: a "strong" program which provided signals at a relatively
high current amplitude (e.g., from about 1 mA to about 6 mA), and a "weak" program
which provided signals at a lower current amplitude (e.g., from about 0.1 mA to about 3
mA).
[0058]       Another observed effect during the follow-on study was that patients
voluntarily reduced their intake of opioids and/or other pain medications that they had
been receiving to address pain prior to receiving modulation in accordance with the
present technology. The patients' voluntary drug intake reduction is expected to be a
direct result of the decreased need for the drugs, which is in turn a direct result of the
modulation provided in accordance with the present technology. However, due to the
addictive nature of opioids, the ease with which patients voluntarily gave up the use of
opioids was surprising. Therefore, it is also expected that for at least some patients,
the present technology, in addition to reducing pain, acted to reduce the chemical
dependency on these drugs. Accordingly, it is further expected that in at least some
embodiments, therapeutic techniques in accordance with the present disclosure may be
                                             -19-

used to reduce or eliminate patient chemical dependencies, independent of whether the
patients also have and/or are treated for low back pain.
[0059]        Patients entering the follow-on study typically experienced neuropathic
pain, nociceptive pain, or a combination of neuropathic pain and nociceptive pain.
Neuropathic pain refers generally to pain resulting from a dysfunction in the neural
mechanism for reporting pain, which can produce a sensation of pain without an
external neural trigger. Nociceptive pain refers generally to pain that is properly sensed
by the patient as being triggered by a particular mechanical or other physical effect
(e.g., a slipped disc, a damaged muscle, or a damaged bone). In general, neuropathic
pain is consistent, and nociceptive pain fluctuates, e.g., with patient position or activity.
In at least some embodiments, treatment in accordance with the present technology
appears to more effectively address neuropathic pain than nociceptive pain.              For
example, patients who reported low levels of pain fluctuation before entering treatment
(indicating predominantly neuropathic pain),      received greater pain relief during
treatment than patients whose pain fluctuated significantly. In two particular cases, the
therapy did not prove to be effective, and it is believe that this resulted from a
mechanical issue with the patients' back anatomy, which identified the patients as
better candidates for surgery than for the present therapy. Accordingly, in addition to
addressing neuropathic pain and (in at least some cases), nociceptive pain, techniques
in accordance with the present technology may also act as a screening tool to identify
patients who suffer primarily from nociceptive pain rather than neuropathic pain. For
example, the practitioner can make such an identification based at least in part on
feedback from the patient corresponding to the existence and/or amount (including
amount of fluctuation) of pain reduction when receiving signals in accordance with the
present technology. As a result of using this diagnostic technique, these patients can
be directed to surgical or other procedures that can directly address the nociceptive
pain.    In particular, patients may receive signals in accordance with the present
technology and, if these patients are unresponsive, may be suitable candidates for
surgical intervention. Of course, if the patients are responsive, they can continue to
receive signals in accordance with the present technology as therapy
                                             -20-

3.0     Mechanisms of Action
[0060]       Figure 8 is a schematic diagram (based on Linderoth and Foreman,
"Mechanisms of Spinal Cord Stimulation in Painful Syndromes:                Role of Animal
Models," Pain Medicine, Vol. 51, 2006) illustrating an expected mechanism of action for
standard SCS treatment, along with potential mechanisms of action for therapy
provided in accordance with embodiments of the present technology.                 When a
peripheral nerve is injured, it is believed that the A6 and C nociceptors provide an
increased level of excitatory transmitters to second order neurons at the dorsal horn of
the spinal cord. Standard SCS therapy, represented by arrow 701, is expected to have
two effects. One effect is an orthodromic effect transmitted along the dorsal column to
the patient's brain and perceived as paresthesia. The other is an antidromic effect that
excites the interneuron pool, which in turn inhibits inputs to the second order neurons.
[0061]       One potential mechanism of action for the presently disclosed therapy is
represented by arrow 710, and includes producing an incomplete conduction block
(e.g., an incomplete block of afferent and/or efferent signal transmission) at the dorsal
root level. This block may occur at the dorsal column, dorsal horn, and/or dorsal root
entry zone, in addition to or in lieu of the dorsal root.       In any of these cases, the
conduction block is selective to and/or preferentially affects the smaller A6 and/or C
fibers and is expected to produce a decrease in excitatory inputs to the second order
neurons, thus producing a decrease in pain signals supplied along the spinal thalamic
tract.
[0062]       Another potential mechanism of action (represented by arrow 720 in Figure
8) includes more profoundly activating the interneuron pool and thus increasing the
inhibition of inputs into the second order neurons.        This can, in effect, potentially
desensitize the second order neurons and convert them closer to a normal state before
the effects of the chronic pain associated signals have an effect on the patient.
[0063]       Still another potential mechanism of action relates to the sensitivity of
neurons in patients suffering from chronic pain. In such patients, it is believed that
the pain-transmitting neurons may be in a different, hypersensitive state compared to
the same neurons in people who do not experience chronic pain, resulting in highly
sensitized cells that are on a "hair trigger" and fire more frequently and at different
patterns with a lower threshold of stimulation than those cells of people who do not
                                             -21-

experience chronic pain. As a result, the brain receives a significantly increased
volume of action potentials at significantly altered transmission patterns. Accordingly, a
potential mechanism of action by which the presently disclosed therapies may operate
is by reducing this hypersensitivity by restoring or moving the "baseline" of the neural
cells in chronic pain patients toward the normal baseline and firing frequency of non
chronic pain patients. This effect can in turn reduce the sensation of pain in this patient
population without affecting other neural transmissions (for example, touch, heat, etc.).
[0064]       The foregoing mechanisms of action are identified here as possible
mechanisms of action that may account for the foregoing clinical results. In particular,
these mechanisms of action may explain the surprising result that pain signals
transmitted by the small, slow A6 and C fibers may be inhibited without affecting signal
transmission along the larger, faster AB fibers. This is contrary to the typical results
obtained via standard SCS treatments, during which modulation signals generally affect
AB fibers at low amplitudes, and do not affect A6 and C fibers until the signal amplitude
is so high as to create pain or other unwanted effects transmitted by the AB fibers.
However, aspects of the present disclosure need not be directly tied to such
mechanisms.       In addition, aspects of both the two foregoing proposed mechanisms
may in combination account for the observed results in some embodiments, and in
other embodiments, other mechanisms may account for the observed results, either
alone or in combination with either one of the two foregoing mechanisms.        One such
mechanism includes an increased ability of high frequency modulation (compared to
standard SCS stimulation) to penetrate through the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) around
the spinal cord.     Another such mechanism is the expected reduction in impedance
presented by the patient's tissue to high frequencies, as compared to standard SCS
frequencies. Still another such mechanism is the ability of high frequency signal to elicit
an asynchronous neural response, as disclosed in greater detail in pending U.S.
Application No. 12/362,244, filed on January 29, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference.    Although the higher frequencies associated with the presently disclosed
techniques may initially appear to require more power than conventional SCS
techniques, the signal amplitude may be reduced when compared to conventional SCS
values (due to improved signal penetration) and/or the duty cycle may be reduced (due
to persistence effects described later). Accordingly, the presently disclosed techniques
can result in a net power savings when compared with standard SCS techniques.
                                             -22-

4.0      Expected Benefits Associated With Certain Embodiments
[0065]        Certain of the foregoing embodiments can produce one or more of a variety
of advantages, for the patient and/or the practitioner, when compared with standard
SCS therapies.        Some of these benefits were described above.           For example, the
patient can receive effective pain relief without patient-detectable disruptions to normal
sensory and motor signals along the spinal cord. In particular embodiments, while the
therapy may create some effect on normal motor and/or sensory signals, the effect is
below a level that the patient can reliably detect intrinsically, e.g., without the aid of
external assistance via instruments or other devices. Accordingly, the patient's levels of
motor signaling and other sensory signaling (other than signaling associated with the
target pain) can be maintained at pre-treatment levels.           For example, as described
above, the patient can experience a significant pain reduction that is largely
independent of the patient's movement and position.             In particular, the patient can
assume a variety of positions and/or undertake a variety of movements associated with
activities of daily living and/or other activities, without the need to adjust the parameters
in accordance with which the therapy is applied to the patient (e.g., the signal
amplitude).    This result can greatly simplify the patient's life and reduce the effort
required by the patient to experience pain relief while engaging in a variety of activities.
This result can also provide an improved lifestyle for patients who experience pain
during sleep, as discussed above with reference to Figures 5B and 5C.
[0066]        Even for patients who receive a therapeutic benefit from changes in signal
amplitude, the foregoing therapy can provide advantages. For example, such patients
can choose from a limited number of programs (e.g., two or three) each with a different
amplitude and/or other signal delivery parameter, to address some or all of the patient's
pain.    In one such example, the patient activates one program before sleeping and
another after waking.       In another such example, the patient activates one program
before sleeping, a second program after waking, and a third program before engaging
in particular activities that would otherwise cause pain.         This reduced set of patient
options can greatly simplify the patient's ability to easily manage pain, without reducing
(and in fact, increasing) the circumstances under which the therapy effectively
addresses pain.        In any embodiments that include multiple programs, the patient's
workload can be further reduced by automatically detecting a change in patient
circumstance, and automatically identifying and delivering the appropriate therapy
                                                 -23-

regimen. Additional details of such techniques and associated systems are disclosed in
co-pending    U.S. Application No. 12/703,683, previously incorporated herein by
reference.
[0067]       Another benefit observed during the clinical studies described above is that
when the patient does experience a change in the therapy level, it is a gradual change.
This is unlike typical changes associated with conventional SCS therapies.           With
conventional SCS therapies, if a patient changes position and/or changes an amplitude
setting, the patient can experience a sudden onset of pain, often described by patients
as unbearable.      By contrast, patients in the clinical studies described above, when
treated with the presently disclosed therapy, reported a gradual onset of pain when
signal amplitude was increased beyond a threshold level, and/or when the patient
changed position, with the pain described as gradually becoming uncomfortable. One
patient described a sensation akin to a cramp coming on, but never fully developing.
This significant difference in patient response to changes in signal delivery parameters
can allow the patient to more freely change signal delivery parameters and/or posture
when desired, without fear of creating an immediately painful effect.
[0068]       Another observation from the clinical studies described above is that the
amplitude "window" between the onset of effective therapy and the onset of pain or
discomfort is relatively broad, and in particular, broader than it is for standard SCS
treatment.    For example, during standard SCS treatment, the patient typically
experiences a pain reduction at a particular amplitude, and begins experiencing pain
from the therapeutic signal (which may have a sudden onset, as described above) at
from about 1.2 to about 1.6 times that amplitude.        This corresponds to an average
dynamic range of about 1.4. In addition, patients receiving standard SCS stimulation
typically wish to receive the stimulation at close to the pain onset level because the
therapy is often most effective at that level.     Accordingly, patient preferences may
further reduce the effective dynamic range. By contrast, therapy in accordance with the
presently disclosed technology resulted in patients obtaining pain relief at 1 mA or less,
and not encountering pain or muscle capture until the applied signal had an amplitude
of 4 mA, and in some cases up to about 5 mA, 6 mA, or 8 mA, corresponding to a much
larger dynamic range (e.g., larger than 1.6 or 60% in some embodiments, or larger than
100% in other embodiments).           Even at the forgoing amplitude levels, the pain
experienced by the patients was significantly less than that associated with standard
                                             -24-

SCS pain onset.        An expected advantage of this result is that the patient and
practitioner can have significantly wider latitude in selecting an appropriate therapy
amplitude with the presently disclosed methodology than                with standard     SCS
methodologies. For example, the practitioner can increase the signal amplitude in an
effort to affect more (e.g., deeper) fibers at the spinal cord, without triggering unwanted
side effects. The existence of a wider amplitude window may also contribute to the
relative insensitivity of the presently disclosed therapy to changes in patient posture
and/or activity. For example, if the relative position between the implanted lead and the
target neural population changes as the patient moves, the effective strength of the
signal when it reaches the target neural population may also change. When the target
neural population is insensitive to a wider range of signal strengths, this effect can in
turn allow greater patient range of motion without triggering undesirable side effects.
[0069]        Although the presently disclosed therapies may allow the practitioner to
provide modulation over a broader range of amplitudes, in at least some cases, the
practitioner may not need to use the entire range. For example, as described above,
the instances in which the patient may need to adjust the therapy may be significantly
reduced when compared with standard SCS therapy because the presently disclosed
therapy is relatively insensitive to patient position, posture and activity level. In addition
to or in lieu of the foregoing effect, the amplitude of the signals applied in accordance
with the presently disclosed techniques may be lower than the amplitude associated
with standard SCS because the presently disclosed techniques may target neurons that
are closer to the surface of the spinal cord. For example, it is believed that the nerve
fibers associated with low back pain enter the spinal cord between T9 and T12
(inclusive), and are thus close to the spinal cord surface at these vertebral locations.
Accordingly, the strength of the therapeutic signal (e.g., the current amplitude) can be
modest because the signal need not penetrate through a significant depth of spinal cord
tissue to have the intended effect. Such low amplitude signals can have a reduced (or
zero) tendency for triggering side effects, such as unwanted sensory and/or motor
responses. Such low amplitude signals can also reduce the power required by the
implanted pulse generator, and can therefore extend the battery life and the associated
time between recharging and/or replacing the battery.
[0070]        Yet another expected benefit of providing therapy in accordance with the
foregoing parameters is that the practitioner need not implant the lead with the same
                                               -25-

level of precision as is typically required for standard SCS lead placement.                For
example, while the foregoing results were identified for patients having two leads (one
positioned on either side of the spinal cord midline), it is expected that patients will
receive the same or generally similar pain relief with only a single lead placed at the
midline. Accordingly, the practitioner may need to implant only one lead, rather than
two. It is still further expected that the patient may receive pain relief on one side of the
body when the lead is positioned offset from the spinal cord midline in the opposite
direction. Thus, even if the patient has bilateral pain, e.g., with pain worse on one side
than the other, the patient's pain can be addressed with a single implanted lead. Still
further, it is expected that the lead position can vary laterally from the anatomical and/or
physiological spinal cord midline to a position 3-5 mm. away from the spinal cord
midline (e.g., out to the dorsal root entry zone or DREZ). The foregoing identifiers of
the midline may differ, but the expectation is that the foregoing range is effective for
both anatomical and physiological identifications of the midline, e.g., as a result of the
robust nature of the present therapy. Yet further, it is expected that the lead (or more
particularly, the active contact or contacts on the lead) can be positioned at any of a
variety of axial locations in a range of about T9-T1 2 in one embodiment, and a range of
one to two vertebral bodies within T9-T12 in another embodiment, while still providing
effective treatment. Accordingly, the practitioner's selected implant site need not be
identified or located as precisely as it is for standard SCS procedures (axially and/or
laterally), while still producing significant patient benefits. In particular, the practitioner
can locate the active contacts within the foregoing ranges without adjusting the contact
positions in an effort to increase treatment efficacy and/or patient comfort. In addition,
in particular embodiments, contacts at the foregoing locations can be the only active
contacts delivering therapy to the patient.           The foregoing features, alone or in
combination, can reduce the amount of time required to implant the lead, and can give
the practitioner greater flexibility when implanting the lead. For example, if the patient
has scar tissue or another impediment at a preferred implant site, the practitioner can
locate the lead elsewhere and still obtain beneficial results.
[0071]         Still another expected benefit, which can result from the foregoing observed
insensitivities to lead placement and signal amplitude, is that the need for conducting a
mapping procedure at the time the lead is implanted may be significantly reduced or
eliminated. This is an advantage for both the patient and the practitioner because it
                                                -26-

reduces the amount of time and effort required to establish an effective therapy
regimen.     In particular, standard SCS therapy typically requires that the practitioner
adjust the position of the lead and the amplitude of the signals delivered by the lead,
while the patient is in the operating room reporting whether or not pain reduction is
achieved. Because the presently disclosed techniques are relatively insensitive to lead
position and amplitude, the mapping process can be eliminated entirely. Instead, the
practitioner can place the lead at a selected vertebral location (e.g., about T9-T1 2) and
apply the signal at a pre-selected amplitude (e.g., 1 to 2 mA), with a significantly
reduced or eliminated trial-and-error optimization process (for a contact selection and/or
amplitude selection), and then release the patient.          In addition to or in lieu of the
foregoing effect, the practitioner can, in at least some embodiments, provide effective
therapy to the patient with a simple bipole arrangement of electrodes, as opposed to a
tripole or other more complex arrangement that is used in existing systems to steer or
otherwise direct therapeutic signals. In light of the foregoing effect(s), it is expected
that the time required to complete a patient lead implant procedure and select signal
delivery parameters can be reduced by a factor of two or more, in particular
embodiments.        As a result, the practitioner can treat more patients per day, and the
patients can more quickly engage in activities without pain.
[0072]        The foregoing effect(s) can extend not only to the mapping procedure
conducted at the practitioner's facility, but also to the subsequent trial period.            In
particular, patients receiving standard SCS treatment typically spend a week after
receiving a lead implant during which they adjust the amplitude applied to the lead in an
attempt to establish suitable amplitudes for any of a variety of patient positions and
patient activities.     Because embodiments of the presently disclosed therapy are
relatively insensitive to patient position and activity level, the need for this trial and error
period can be reduced or eliminated.
[0073]        Still another expected benefit associated with embodiments of the presently
disclosed treatment is that the treatment may be less susceptible to patient habituation.
In particular, it is expected that in at least some cases, the high frequency signal
applied to the patient can produce an asynchronous neural response, as is disclosed in
co-pending     U.S. Application No. 12/362,244, previously incorporated herein by
reference. The asynchronous response may be less likely to produce habituation than
a synchronous response, which can result from lower frequency modulation.
                                                -27-

[0074]       Yet another feature of embodiments of the foregoing therapy is that the
therapy can be applied without distinguishing between anodic contacts and cathodic
contacts.    As described in greater detail in U.S. Application No.                (Attorney
Docket No. 66245.8024US, previously incorporated herein by reference), this feature
can simplify the process of establishing a therapy regimen for the patient. In addition,
due to the high frequency of the waveform, the adjacent tissue may perceive the
waveform as a pseudo steady state signal. As a result of either or both of the foregoing
effects, tissue adjacent both electrodes may be beneficially affected.        This is unlike
standard SCS waveforms for which one electrode is consistently cathodic and another
is consistently anodic.
[0075]        In any of the foregoing embodiments, aspects of the therapy provided to the
patient may be varied within or outside the parameters used during the clinical testing
described above, while still obtaining beneficial results for patients suffering from
chronic low back pain. For example, the location of the lead body (and in particular, the
lead body electrodes or contacts) can be varied over the significant lateral and/or axial
ranges described above. Other characteristics of the applied signal can also be varied.
For example, as described above, the signal can be delivered at a frequency of from
about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz, and in particular embodiments, from about 1.5 kHz to
about 50 kHz.        In more particular embodiments, the signal can be provided at
frequencies of from about 3 kHz to about 20 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 15 kHz,
or from about 5 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 10 kHz. The
amplitude of the signal can range from about 0.1 mA to about 20 mA in a particular
embodiment, and in further particular embodiments, can range from about 0.5 mA to
about 10 mA, or about 0.5 mA to about 4 mA, or about 0.5 mA to about 2.5 mA. The
amplitude of the applied signal can be ramped up and/or down.                  In particular
embodiments, the amplitude can be increased or set at an initial level to establish a
therapeutic effect, and then reduced to a lower level to save power without forsaking
efficacy, as is disclosed in pending U.S. Application No. 12/264,536, filed November 4,
2008, and incorporated herein by reference.        In particular embodiments, the signal
amplitude refers to the electrical current level, e.g., for current-controlled systems. In
other embodiments, the signal amplitude can refer to the electrical voltage level, e.g.,
for voltage-controlled systems. The pulse width (e.g., for just the cathodic phase of the
pulses) can vary from about 10 microseconds to about 333 microseconds. In further
                                             -28-

particular embodiments, the pulse width can range from about 25 microseconds to
about 166 microseconds, or from about 33 microseconds to about 100 microseconds,
or from about 50 microseconds to about 166 microseconds.               The specific values
selected for the foregoing parameters may vary from patient to patient and/or from
indication to indication and/or on the basis of the selected vertebral location.         In
addition, the methodology may make use of other parameters, in addition to or in lieu of
those described above, to monitor and/or control patient therapy.          For example, in
cases for which the pulse generator includes a constant voltage arrangement rather
than a constant current arrangement, the current values described above may be
replaced with corresponding voltage values.
[0076]       In at least some embodiments, it is expected that the foregoing amplitudes
will be suprathreshold.      It is also expected that, in at least some embodiments, the
neural response to the foregoing signals will be asynchronous, as described above.
Accordingly, the frequency of the signal can be selected to be higher (e.g., between two
and ten times higher) than the refractory period of the target neurons at the patient's
spinal cord, which in at least some embodiments is expected to produce an
asynchronous response.
[0077]       Patients can receive multiple signals in accordance with still further
embodiments of the disclosure. For example, patients can receive two or more signals,
each with different signal delivery parameters.      In one particular example, the signals
are interleaved with each other. For instance, the patient can receive 5 kHz pulses
interleaved with 10 kHz pulses. In other embodiments, patients can receive sequential
"packets" of pulses at different frequencies, with each packet having a duration of less
than one second, several seconds, several minutes, or longer depending upon the
particular patient and indication.
[0078]       In still further embodiments, the duty cycle may be varied from the 50%
100% range of values described above, as can the lengths of the on/off periods. For
example, it has been observed that patients can have therapeutic effects (e.g., pain
reduction) that persist for significant periods after the modulation has been halted. In
particular examples, the beneficial effects can persist for 10-20 minutes in some cases,
and up to an hour in others and up to a day or more in still further cases. Accordingly,
the simulator can be programmed to halt modulation for periods of up to an hour, with
                                               -29-

appropriate allowances for the time necessary to re-start the beneficial effects. This
arrangement can significantly reduce system power consumption, compared to systems
with higher duty cycles, and compared to systems that have shorter on/off periods.
5.0     Representative Lead Confiqurations
[0079]       Figure 9 is a partially schematic illustration of a lead 910 having first and
second contacts C1, C2 positioned to deliver modulation signals in accordance with
particular embodiments of the disclosure. The contacts are accordingly positioned to
contact the patient's tissue when implanted. The lead 910 can include at least two first
contacts C1 and at least two second contacts C2 to support bipolar modulation signals
via each contact grouping.     In one aspect of this embodiment, the lead 910 can be
elongated along a major or lead axis A, with the contacts C1, C2 spaced equally from
the major axis A. In general, the term elongated refers to a lead or other signal delivery
element having a length (e.g., along the spinal cord) greater than its width. The lead
910 can have an overall length L (over which active contacts are positioned) that is
longer than that of typical leads. In particular, the length L can be sufficient to position
first contacts C1 at one or more vertebral locations (including associated neural
populations), and position the second contacts C2 at another vertebral location
(including associated neural populations) that is spaced apart from the first and that is
superior the first. For example, the first contacts C1 may be positioned at vertebral
levels T9-T12 to treat low back pain, and the second contacts C2 may be positioned at
superior vertebral locations (e.g., cervical locations) to treat arm pain. Representative
lead lengths are from about 30 cm to about 150 cm, and in particular embodiments,
from about 40 cm to about 50 cm. Pulses may be applied to both groups of contacts in
accordance with several different arrangements. For example pulses provided to one
group may be interleaved with pulses applied to the other, or the same signal may be
rapidly switched from one group to the other.          In other embodiments, the signals
applied to individual contacts, pairs of contacts, and/or contacts in different groups may
be multiplexed in other manners. In any of these embodiments, each of the contacts
C1, C2 can have an appropriately selected surface area, e.g., in the range of from
about 3 mm2 to about 25 mm2 , and in particular embodiments, from about 8 mm2 to
about 15 mm 2 . Individual contacts on a given lead can have different surface area
values, within the foregoing ranges, than neighboring or other contacts of the lead, with
                                              -30-

values selected depending upon features including the vertebral location of the
individual contact.
[0080]        Another aspect of an embodiment of the lead 910 shown in Figure 9 is that
the first contacts C1 can have a significantly wider spacing than is typically associated
with standard SCS contacts. For example, the first contacts C1 can be spaced apart
(e.g., closest edge to closest edge) by a first distance S1 that is greater than a
corresponding second distance S2 between immediately neighboring second contacts
C2. In a representative embodiment, the first distance S1 can range from about 3 mm
up to a distance that corresponds to one-half of a vertebral body, one vertebral body, or
two vertebral bodies (e.g., about 16 mm, 32 mm, or 64 mm, respectively). In another
particular embodiment, the first distance S1 can be from about 5 mm to about 15 mm.
This increased spacing can reduce the complexity of the lead 910, and can still provide
effective treatment to the patient because, as discussed above, the effectiveness of the
presently disclosed therapy is relatively insensitive to the axial location of the signal
delivery contacts. The second contacts C2 can have a similar wide spacing when used
to apply high frequency modulation in accordance with the presently disclosed
methodologies.      However, in another embodiment, different portions of the lead 910
can have contacts that are spaced apart by different distances.          For example, if the
patient receives high frequency pain suppression treatment via the first contacts C1 at a
first vertebral location, the patient can optionally receive low frequency (e.g., 1500 Hz or
less, or 1200 Hz or less), paresthesia-inducing signals at the second vertebral location
via the second contacts C2 that are spaced apart by a distance S2. The distance S2
can be smaller than the distance S1 and, in particular embodiments, can be typical of
contact spacings for standard SCS treatment (e.g., 4 mm spacings), as these contacts
may be used for providing such treatment.           Accordingly, the first contacts C1 can
deliver modulation in accordance with different signal delivery parameters than those
associated with the second contacts C2. In still further embodiments, the inferior first
contacts C1 can have the close spacing S2, and the superior second contacts C2 can
have the wide spacing S1, depending upon patient indications and/or preferences. In
still further embodiments, as noted above, contacts at both the inferior and superior
locations can have the wide spacing, e.g., to support high frequency modulation at
multiple locations along the spinal cord.        In other embodiments, the lead 910 can
include other arrangements of different contact spacings, depending upon the particular
                                               -31-

patient and indication. For example, the widths of the second contacts C2 (and/or the
first contacts Cl) can be a greater fraction of the spacing between neighboring contacts
than is represented schematically in Figure 9. The distance S1 between neighboring
first contacts C1 can be less than an entire vertebral body (e.g., 5 mm or 16 mm) or
greater than one vertebral body while still achieving benefits associated with increased
spacing, e.g., reduced complexity. The lead 910 can have all contacts spaced equally
(e.g., by up to about two vertebral bodies), or the contacts can have different spacings,
as described above.      Two or more first contacts C1 can apply modulation at one
vertebral level (e.g., T9) while two or more additional first contacts C1 can provide
modulation at the same or a different frequency at a different vertebral level (e.g., T10).
[0081]        In some cases, it may be desirable to adjust the distance between the
inferior contacts C1 and the superior contacts C2. For example, the lead 910 can have
a coil arrangement (like a telephone cord) or other length-adjusting feature that allows
the practitioner to selectively vary the distance between the sets of contacts.          In a
particular aspect of this arrangement, the coiled portion of the lead can be located
between the first contacts C1 and the second contacts C2.               For example, in an
embodiment shown in Figure 10A, the lead 910 can include a proximal portion 910a
carrying the first contacts C1, a distal portion 910c carrying the second contacts C2,
and an intermediate portion 910b having a pre-shaped, variable-length strain relief
feature, for example, a sinusoidally-shaped or a helically-shaped feature. The lead 910
also includes a stylet channel or lumen 915 extending through the lead 910 from the
proximal portion 91 Ca to the distal portion 910c.
[0082]        Referring next to Figure 10B, the practitioner inserts a stylet 916 into the
stylet lumen 915, which straightens the lead 910 for implantation. The practitioner then
inserts the lead 910 into the patient, via the stylet 916, until the distal portion 91Cc and
the associated second contacts C2 are at the desired location. The practitioner then
secures the distal portion 910c relative to the patient with a distal lead device 917c.
The distal lead device 917c can include any of a variety of suitable remotely deployable
structures for securing the lead, including, but not limited to an expandable balloon.
[0083]        Referring next to Figure 1CC, the practitioner can partially or completely
remove the stylet 916 and allow the properties of the lead 910 (e.g., the natural
tendency of the intermediate portion 910b to assume its initial shape) to draw the
                                              -32-

proximal portion 91Ca toward the distal portion 91Cc. When the proximal portion 910a
has the desired spacing relative to the distal portion 910c, the practitioner can secure
the proximal portion 91 Ca relative to the patient with a proximal lead device 917a (e.g.,
a suture or other lead anchor).         In this manner, the practitioner can select an
appropriate spacing between the first contacts C1 at the proximal portion 91 Ca and the
second contacts C2 at distal portion 910c that provides effective treatment at multiple
patient locations along the spine.
[0084]        Figure 11 A is an enlarged view of the proximal portion 910a of the lead 910,
illustrating an internal arrangement in accordance with a particular embodiment of the
disclosure.    Figure 11 B is a cross-sectional view of the lead 910 taken substantially
along line 11B-11B of Figure 11A.        Referring now to Figure 11B, the lead 910 can
include multiple conductors 921 arranged within an outer insulation element 918, for
example, a plastic sleeve. In a particular embodiment, the conductors 921 can include
a central conductor 921 a. In another embodiment, the central conductor 921 a can be
eliminated and replaced with the stylet lumen 915 described above. In any of these
embodiments, each individual conductor 921 can include multiple conductor strands
919 (e.g., a multifilar arrangement) surrounded by an individual conductor insulation
element 920. During manufacture, selected portions of the outer insulation 918 and the
individual conductor insulation elements 920 can be removed, thus exposing individual
conductors 921 at selected positions along the length of the lead 910. These exposed
portions can themselves function as contacts, and accordingly can provide modulation
to the patient. In another embodiment, ring (or cylinder) contacts are attached to the
exposed portions, e.g., by crimping or welding. The manufacturer can customize the
lead 910 by spacing the removed sections of the outer insulation element 918 and the
conductor insulation elements 920 in a particular manner.               For example, the
manufacturer can use a stencil or other arrangement to guide the removal process,
which can include, but is not limited to, an ablative process. This arrangement allows
the same overall configuration of the lead 910 to be used for a variety of applications
and patients without major changes. In another aspect of this embodiment, each of the
conductors 921 can extend parallel to the others along the major axis of the lead 910
within the outer insulation 918, as opposed to a braided or coiled arrangement.          In
addition, each of the conductor strands 919 of an individual conductor element 920 can
extend parallel to its neighbors, also without spiraling.       It is expected that these
                                              -33-

features, alone or in combination, will increase the flexibility of the overall lead 910,
allowing it to be inserted with a greater level of versatility and/or into a greater variety of
patient anatomies then conventional leads.
[0085]        Figure 11C is a partially schematic, enlarged illustration of the proximal
portion 910a shown in Figure 11A.         One expected advantage of the multifilar cable
described above with reference to Figure 11 B is that the impedance of each of the
conductors 921 can be reduced when compared to conventional coil conductors. As a
result, the diameter of the conductors 921 can be reduced and the overall diameter of
the lead 910 can also be reduced.         One result of advantageously reducing the lead
diameter is that the contacts C1 may have a greater length in order to provide the
required surface area needed for effective modulation.         If the contacts C1 are formed
from exposed portions of the conductors 921, this is not expected to present an issue.
If the contacts C1 are ring or cylindrical contacts, then in particular embodiments, the
length of the contact may become so great that it inhibits the practitioner's ability to
readily maneuver the lead 910 during patient insertion. One approach to addressing
this potential issue is to divide a particular contact C1 into multiple sub-contacts, shown
in Figure 11 C as six sub-contacts C1 a-C1 f. In this embodiment, each of the individual
sub-contacts Cla-Cif can be connected to the same conductor 921 shown in Figure
11 B. Accordingly, the group of sub-contacts connected to a given conductor 921 can
operate essentially as one long contact, without inhibiting the flexibility of the lead 910.
[0086]        As noted above, one feature of the foregoing arrangements is that they can
be easy to design and manufacture. For example, the manufacturer can use different
stencils to provide different contact spacings, depending upon specific patient
applications. In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing effect, the foregoing arrangement
can provide for greater maneuverability and facilitate the implantation process by
eliminating ring electrodes and/or other rigid contacts, or dividing the contacts into
subcontacts.      In other embodiments, other arrangements can be used to provide
contact flexibility. For example, the contacts can be formed from a conductive silicone,
e.g., silicone impregnated with a suitable loading of conductive material, such as
platinum, iridium or another noble metal.
[0087]        Yet another feature of an embodiment of the lead shown in Figure 9 is that
a patient can receive effective therapy with just a single bipolar pair of active contacts.
                                               -34-

If more than one pair of contacts is active, each pair of contacts can receive the
identical waveform, so that active contacts can be shorted to each other. In another
embodiment, the implanted pulse generator (not visible in Figure 9) can serve as a
return electrode. For example, the pulse generator can include a housing that serves
as the return electrode, or the pulse generator can otherwise carry a return electrode
that has a fixed position relative to the pulse generator. Accordingly, the modulation
provided by the active contacts can be unipolar modulation, as opposed to the more
typical bipolar stimulation associated with standard SCS treatments.
6.0     Representative Proqrammer Confiqurations
[0088]       The robust characteristics of the presently disclosed therapy techniques
may enable other aspects of the overall system described above with reference to
Figures 1A-B to be simplified.       For example, the patient remote and the physician
programmer can be simplified significantly because the need to change signal delivery
parameters can be reduced significantly or eliminated entirely.           In particular, it is
expected that in certain embodiments, once the lead is implanted, the patient can
receive effective therapy while assuming a wide range of positions and engaging in a
wide range of activities, without having to change the signal amplitude or other signal
delivery parameters. As a result, the patient remote need not include any programming
functions, but can instead include a simple on/off function (e.g., an on/off button or
switch), as described further in U.S. Application No.                 (Attorney Docket No.
66245.8024US), previously incorporated herein by reference. The patient remote may
also include an indicator (e.g., a light) that identifies when the pulse generator is active.
This feature may be particularly useful in connection with the presently disclosed
therapies because the patient will typically not feel a paresthesia, unless the system is
configured and programmed to deliberately produce paresthesia in addition to the
therapy signal. In particular embodiments, the physician programmer can be simplified
in a similar manner, though in some cases, it may be desirable to maintain at least
some level of programming ability at the physician programmer. Such a capability can
allow the physician to select different contacts and/or other signal delivery parameters
in the rare instances when the lead migrates or when the patient undergoes
physiological changes (e.g., scarring) or lifestyle changes (e.g., new activities) that are
so significant they require a change in the active contact(s) and/or other signal delivery
parameters.
                                                -35-

7.0     Representative Modulation Locations and Indications
[0089]       Many of the embodiments described above were described in the context of
treating chronic, neuropathic low back pain with modulation signals applied to the lower
thoracic vertebrae (T9-T12).        In other embodiments, modulation signals having
parameters (e.g., frequency, pulse width, amplitude, and/or duty cycle) generally similar
to those described above can be applied to other patient locations to address other
indications.    For example, while the foregoing methodologies included applying
modulation at lateral locations ranging from the spinal cord midline to the DREZ, in
other embodiments, the modulation may be applied to the foramen region, laterally
outward from the DREZ.        In other embodiments, the modulation may be applied to
other spinal levels of the patient. For example, modulation may be applied to the sacral
region and more particularly, the "horse tail" region at which the sacral nerves enter the
sacrum.    Urinary incontinence and fecal incontinence represent example indications
that are expected to be treatable with modulation applied at this location.       In other
embodiments, the modulation may be applied to other thoracic vertebrae. For example,
modulation may be applied to thoracic vertebrae above T9. In a particular embodiment,
modulation may be applied to the T3-T6 region to treat angina.         Modulation can be
applied to high thoracic vertebrae to treat pain associated with shingles. Modulation
may be applied to the cervical vertebrae to address chronic regional pain syndrome
and/or total body pain, and may be used to replace neck surgery. Suitable cervical
locations include vertebral levels C3-C7, inclusive. In other embodiments, modulation
may be applied to the occipital nerves, for example, to address migraine headaches.
[0090]       As   described above,     modulation     in accordance with the foregoing
parameters may also be applied to treat acute and/or chronic nociceptive pain.         For
example, modulation in accordance with these parameters can be used during surgery
to supplement and/or replace anesthetics (e.g., a spinal tap). Such applications may be
used for tumor removal, knee surgery, and/or other surgical techniques.            Similar
techniques may be used with an implanted device to address post-operative pain, and
can avoid the need for topical lidocaine.     In still further embodiments, modulation in
accordance with the foregoing parameters can be used to address other peripheral
nerves.    For example, modulation can be applied directly to peripheral nerves to
address phantom limb pain.
                                             -36-

[0091]       From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the
disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but that various
modifications may be made without deviating from the disclosure. For example, the
specific parameter ranges and indications described above may be different in further
embodiments.      As described above, the practitioner can avoid the use of certain
procedures, (e.g., mapping, trial periods and/or current steering), but in other
embodiments, such procedures may be used in particular instances.                 The lead
described above with reference to Figures 9-11C can have more than two groups of
contacts, and/or can have other contact spacings in other embodiments.             In some
embodiments, as described above, the signal amplitude applied to the patient can be
constant. In other embodiments, the amplitude can vary in a preselected manner, e.g.,
via ramping up/down, and/or cycling among multiple amplitudes. The signal delivery
elements can have an epidural location, as discussed above with regard to Figure 1B,
and in other embodiments, can have an extradural location. In particular embodiments
described above, signals having the foregoing characteristics are expected to provide
therapeutic benefits for patients having low back pain and/or leg pain, when stimulation
is applied at vertebral levels from about T9 to about T12.          In at least some other
embodiments, it is believed that this range can extend from about T5 to about L1.
[0092]      Certain aspects of the disclosure described in the context of particular
embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments. For example, as
described above, the trial period, operating room mapping process, and/or external
modulator may be eliminated or simplified in particular embodiments.              Therapies
directed to particular indications may be combined in still further embodiments. Further,
while advantages associated with certain embodiments have been described in the
context of those embodiments, other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages,
and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the
scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly, the present disclosure and associated
technology can encompass other embodiments not expressly shown or described
herein.
[0093]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
                                             -37-

group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[0094]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                             -38-

                                              CLAIMS
1.       A method of treating incontinence, comprising:
         implanting one or more signal delivery devices proximate to at least one sacral
nerve in a patient's sacral region; and
         applying an electrical therapy signal to the at least one sacral nerve via the one or
more signal delivery devices to treat incontinence without generating paresthesia in the
patient,
         wherein at least a portion of the electrical therapy signal is at a frequency in a
frequency range of from about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz and a pulse width in a pulse width
range of from about 10 microseconds to about 333 microseconds.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the frequency range is from about 3 kHz to about
20 kHz.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the frequency range is from about 5 kHz to about
15 kHz.
4.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         coupling the one or more implanted signal delivery devices to an implanted signal
generator,
         wherein the signal generator is configured to treat incontinence by generating and
delivering the electrical therapy signal to the sacral nerve.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more signal delivery devices include a
percutaneous lead having one or more electrodes disposed toward a distal end of the
percutaneous lead.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the electrical therapy signal includes one or more
pulses with a pulse width between about 25 microseconds and about 166 microseconds.
7.       A method of treating incontinence with a spinal cord modulation system,
comprising:
                                               -39-

         implanting one or more signal delivery devices proximate to a target location in a
patient's spinal cord region, wherein the target location is a sacral nerve in the patient's
sacral region;
         coupling the one or more signal delivery devices to a signal generator; and
         configuring the signal generator to generate and deliver an incontinence therapy
signal to the target location, via the one or more implanted signal delivery devices, without
generating paresthesia;
         wherein at least a portion of the therapy signal is at a frequency in a frequency range
of from about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz.
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the frequency range is from about 3 kHz to about
20 kHz.
9.       The method of claim 7, wherein the frequency range is from about 5 kHz to about
15 kHz.
10.      The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more signal delivery devices include a
percutaneous lead having one or more electrodes disposed toward a distal end of the
percutaneous lead.
11.      The method of claim 7, further comprising:
         configuring the signal generator to generate the therapy signal with one or more
pulses having a pulse width between about 10 microseconds and about 333 microseconds.
12.      The method of claim 7, further comprising:
         configuring the signal generator to generate the therapy signal with one or more
pulses having a pulse width between about 25 microseconds and about 166 microseconds.
13.      An incontinence treatment system, comprising:
         a spinal cord modulation system having
         at least one signal delivery device configured to be implanted proximate to a sacral
nerve in a patient's sacral region, and
                                               -40-

        a signal generator configured to treat incontinence by generating and delivering a
non-paresthesia-generating electrical therapy signal to the sacral nerve, via the at least one
signal delivery device,
        wherein at least a portion of the electrical therapy signal is at a frequency in a
frequency range of from about 1.5 kHz to about 100 kHz and a pulse width in a pulse width
range of from about 10 microseconds to about 333 microseconds.
14.     The system of claim 13, wherein the frequency range is from about 3 kHz to about
20 kHz.
15.     The system of claim 13, wherein the frequency range is from about 5 kHz to about
15 kHz.
16.     The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one signal delivery device includes a
percutaneous lead having one or more electrodes disposed toward a distal end of the
percutaneous lead.
17.     The system of claim 13, wherein the electrical therapy signal includes one or more
pulses with a pulse width between about 25 microseconds and about 166 microseconds.
18.     The method of any one of claims 1-17 wherein the incontinence includes urinary
incontinence.
19.     The method of any one of claims 1-17 wherein the incontinence includes fecal
incontinence.
                                            -41-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
