        E:\pw\Inerwven\R~orhl\CC\P~il5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                 - 25
                                                               ABSTRACT
  A method for titrating a stimulation parameter for one or more electrode contacts in a
  system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient includes activating one of the one
  or more electrode contacts to stimulate the hypoglossal nerve of the patient, obtaining a
5 first and/or second physiological measurement from the patient, comparing the first and/or
  second physiological measurement to a first and/or second predetermined target value,
  adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts if the
  first and/or second physiological measurement differs from the first and/or second
  predetermined target value.

         1/2
                       110
     322
                   764
         FIG. 1
764a
                 764
          FIG. 2

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              TITLE OF THE INVENTION
   [0001]                       Method for Adjusting a System for Stimulating a Hypoglossal Nerve
                                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0002]             This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
 5 62/027,363 filed July 22, 2014 entitled "Method for Adjusting a System for Stimulating a
   Hypoglossal Nerve", which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The entire
   content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No. 2015294336 as
   originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10 [0003]             The present invention generally relates to methods for adjusting a system for
   stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient. In some embodiments, the present invention
   relates to methods for adjusting or titrating one or more parameters for a system for
   stimulating the Hypoglossal nerve of a patient to prevent obstructive sleep apnea.
                                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15 [0004]             Sleep apnea is a sleep disorder characterized by pauses in breathing during
   sleep. Those affected by sleep apnea stop breathing during sleep numerous times during
   the night. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is caused by episodes of physical obstruction of
   the upper airway channel (UAW) during sleep. The physical obstruction is often caused
   by changes in the position of the tongue during sleep that results in the closure of the soft
20 tissues lining the airway at the rear of the throat or pharynx.
   [0005]             OSA is characterized by the obstruction of the airway causing breathing to
   cease completely (Apnea) or partially (Hypopnea). The human airway at the level of the
   oropharynx is lined by soft tissue; any collapse of its walls results in the closure of the
   airway, which leads to insufficient air intake, thereby interrupting one's sleep (episodes or
25 micro-arousals).

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                -2
   [0006]             During sleep, the tongue muscles relax. In this relaxed state, the tongue may
   lack sufficient muscle tone necessary for maintaining the tongue's normal tonic shape and
   position. When the base of the tongue along with soft tissue of the upper airway collapses,
   the upper airway channel is blocked, causing an apnea event.                        Blockage of the upper
 5 airway prevents air from flowing into the lungs, creating a decrease in blood oxygen level
   and an increase in blood carbon dioxide level. The reduction in oxygen and increased
   carbon dioxide alert the brain to resume breathing. This causes a reflexive forced opening
   of the upper airway channel until normal patency is regained, followed by normal
   respiration until the next apneic event. These reflexive forced openings briefly arouse the
10 patient from sleep.
   [0007]             OSA is a potentially life-threatening disease that often goes undiagnosed in
   most patients affected by sleep apnea. The severity of sleep apnea can be measured by
   dividing the number of episodes of apneas and hypopneas lasting ten seconds or more by
   the number of hours of sleep. The resulting number is called the Apnea-Hypopnea Index,
15 or AHI. The higher the index the more serious the condition. An index between 5 and 10
   is low, between 10 and 15 is mild to moderate, over 15 is moderately severe, and anything
   over 30 indicates severe sleep apnea.
   [0008]             Treatment options for OSA have not been consistently effective for all patients.
   A standard method for treating OSA is Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)
20 treatment, which requires the patient to wear a mask through which air is blown into the
   nostrils and mouth to keep the airway open. Patient compliance is poor due to discomfort
   and side effects such as sneezing, nasal discharge, dryness, skin irritation, claustrophobia,
   and panic attacks.                      Other treatments include invasive surgical procedures where rigid
   inserts are implanted in the soft palate to provide structural support or more drastic options
25 such as uvulopalatopharyngoplasty, mandibular advancement, and tracheostomy.
   [0009]              Nerve stimulation to control the position of the tongue is a promising
   alternative to these forms of treatment. For example, pharyngeal dilation via Hypoglossal
   nerve stimulation has been shown to be an effective treatment method for OSA.                         The
   nerves are stimulated using an implanted electrode to displace the tongue and open the
30 airway during sleep or to prevent the collapse of the tongue by improving or maintaining

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              -3
   muscle tone and thereby maintain the patency of the airway.                    In particular, electrical
   stimulation of the medial hypoglossal nerve branch (i.e.,                     innervating mainly the
   Genioglossus or protrusor muscles), has demonstrated significant reductions in UAW
   airflow resistance while electrical stimulation of the lateral branch (i.e., innervating
 5 Styloglossus and Hyoglossus or retrusor muscles) has demonstrated maintenance of tongue
   muscle tone.               The latter may involve the targeted co-stimulation of both protrusor and
   retrusor muscles.                   The protrusor muscles may be stimulated at higher activation levels
   while retrusor muscles maybe stimulated at lower levels.                   In this manner, the forces
   generated by the activation of retrusor muscles is insufficient to displace the tongue
10 backward or occlude the retroglossal airway, however at the same time, is enough to
   generate tongue tone or stiffness sufficient for maintaining the patency of the airway. In
   other words, the retrusive effect of the retrusor muscles at the rear of the tongue is rendered
   insignificant in the presence of protrusive forces in the front. Therefore the controlled co
   activation of a different but small fraction of the retrusor (antagonist) musculature together
15 with the activation of protrusor (agonist) muscles will improve oropharyngeal patency
   while not significantly leading to tongue retrusion.                 These two muscle groups, when
   contracting simultaneously, control both the tongue's position and its tone and stiffness.
   [0010]             While electrical stimulation of nerves has been experimentally shown to
   remove or ameliorate certain conditions (e.g., obstructions in the UAW),                        current
20 implementation methods typically require accurate detection of a condition (e.g., a
   muscular obstruction of the airway or chest wall expansion),                       surgically selective
   stimulation of a muscle or nerve, and a coupling of the detection and stimulation. These
   systems rely on detection of breathing and/or detection of apnea events as pre-conditions to
   control and deliver electrical stimulation in order to cause only useful tongue motions and
25 to periodically rest the tongue muscles and avoid fatigue. In one system, for example, a
   voltage controlled waveform source is multiplexed to two cuff electrode contacts. A bio
   signal amplifier connected to the contacts controls stimulus based on breathing patterns. In
   another system, a microstimulator uses an implanted single-contact constant current
   stimulator synchronized to breathing to maintain an open airway. A third system uses an
30 implantable pulse generator (IPG) with a single cuff electrode attached to the distal portion
   of the Hypoglossal nerve, with stimulation timed to breathing. This last system uses a lead

                       wneovn054677_.doe-1/3/2018
                                                          -4
   attached to the chest wall to sense breathing motions by looking at "bio-impedance" of the
   chest wall.    Still another system monitors vagus nerve electroneurograms to detect an
   apnea event and stimulate the Hypoglossal nerve in response.
   [0011]       One drawback of utilizing nerve stimulation to control the position of the
 5 tongue is that the muscle fibers activated by the stimulated nerve fibers will eventually
   fatigue if the applied stimulus is maintained at a sufficiently high enough frequency. If the
   muscle fibers become fatigued, muscle force and/or position then changes towards the
   relaxed, inactivated condition.                Fatigue may be minimized or prevented by using a
   stimulation duty cycle - that is, stimulating for a certain amount of time before significant
10 fatigue sets in, then stopping to let the muscle rest and regain its ability to contract. For
   obstructive sleep apnea, however, this method is less than optimal. Without an applied
   stimulus during the off period of the electrical stimulation duty cycle, the tongue would not
   be driven to maintain a desired position and could fall back against the rear of the throat
   and allow an apnea event to occur. This is one of the reasons that many OSA stimulation
15 systems rely on sensors to detect when to apply stimulation and when to leave it off.
                                  BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0012]       In one embodiment there is a method for titrating a stimulation parameter for
   one or more electrode contacts in a system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient,
20 the method comprising: activating one of the one or more electrode contacts to stimulate
   the hypoglossal nerve of the patient; obtaining a first physiological measurement from the
   patient; comparing the first physiological measurement to a first predetermined target
   value; and adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode
   contacts if the first physiological measurement differs from the first predetermined target
25 value. In a further embodiment, the method includes repeating the method until the first
   physiological measurement reaches the first predetermined target value or until the
   stimulation parameter reaches a pre-set limit.
   [0013]       In one embodiment, the stimulation parameter is changed incrementally during
   the adjustment steps.           In one embodiment, the stimulation parameter is changed by a
30 percentage of the existing value during each of the adjustment steps.               In a further

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                     -5
   embodiment, the method includes wirelessly transmitting information to a display and/or
   recording device regarding which of the one or more electrode contacts is activated. In
   one embodiment, the information includes an identity of an activated electrode contact,
   and the method further comprising: generating a number of pulses corresponding to the
 5 identity of the activated electrode contact. In one embodiment, the information includes
   the amplitude of the activated electrode contact, and the method further comprising: a
   number of pulses corresponding to the amplitude range of the electrode contact and a
   constant level corresponding to the amplitude of the electrode contact within that range. In
   a further embodiment, the method includes obtaining a second physiological measurement
10 from the patient, comparing the second physiological measurement to a second
   predetermined target value, and adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or
   more electrode contacts if the second physiological measurement differs from the second
   predetermined target value.
   [0014]             In one embodiment, the first and second physiological measurements are
15 selected from the group consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood
   oxygen saturation level, blood pressure, peripheral arterial tone, pulse transit time,
   electroencephalography, electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or
   derivatives thereof. In a further embodiment, the method is performed while the patient is
   asleep. In one embodiment, the adjustment of the stimulation parameter is paused while an
20 arousal of the patient is detected, a worsening or altered condition of the first physiological
   measurement is detected, or a predetermined condition of the patient is detected.
   [0015]             In one embodiment, the system is configured for preventing obstructive sleep
   apnea in the patient. In one embodiment, the first predetermined target value is a value of
   a person who does not have obstructive sleep apnea. In one embodiment, the stimulation
25 parameter is selected from the group consisting of stimulation amplitude, stimulation phase
   duration, stimulation frequency, contact group assignment, group or contact enablement,
   group ramp up time, group on time, group ramp down time, group gap time, group
   population percentage, inter- and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and combinations thereof.
   In one embodiment, the first physiological measurement is selected from the group
30 consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood oxygen saturation level, blood
   pressure,           peripheral                 arterial    tone, pulse transit time, electroencephalography,

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              -6
   electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or derivatives thereof. In a
   further embodiment, the method includes repeating the method for each of the one or more
   electrode contacts or groups in the system.
   [0016]             In one embodiment, wherein the one or more electrode contacts include a
 5 plurality of electrode contacts, each electrode contact being connected to an independent
   current source. In one embodiment, the system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a
   patient includes six electrode contacts arranged on a cuff electrode and is configured for
   controlling a position of the patient's tongue.
   [0017]             In another embodiment, there is a method for titrating a stimulation parameter
10 for one or more electrode contacts in a system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a
   patient, the method comprising: activating one of the one or more electrode contacts to
   stimulate the hypoglossal nerve of the patient; obtaining a first physiological measurement
   from the patient; obtaining a second physiological measurement from the patient;
   comparing the first physiological measurement to a first predetermined target value;
15 comparing the second physiological measurement to a second predetermined target value;
   adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts if the
   first physiological measurement differs from the first predetermined target value or the
   second physiological measurement differs from the second predetermined target value; and
   repeating the method until the first physiological measurement reaches the first
20 predetermined target value and/or the second physiological measurement reaches the
   second predetermined target value, or until the stimulation parameter reaches a pre-set
   limit.
   [0018]             In one embodiment, the first and second physiological measurements are
   selected from the group consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood
25 oxygen saturation level, blood pressure, peripheral arterial tone, pulse transit time,
   electroencephalography, electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or
   derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, the stimulation parameter is selected from the
   group consisting of stimulation amplitude,                    stimulation phase duration, stimulation
   frequency, contact group assignment, group or contact enablement, group ramp up time,
30 group on time, group ramp down time, group gap time, group population percentage, inter
   and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and combinations thereof. In a further embodiment, the

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              -7
   method includes repeating the method for each of the one or more electrode contacts or
   groups in the system. In one embodiment, the system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve
   of a patient includes six electrode contacts arranged on a cuff electrode and is configured
   for controlling a position of the patient's tongue.
 5 [0019]             In another embodiment, there is a method for titrating a stimulation parameter
   for one or more electrode contacts or groups in a system for stimulating a hypoglossal
   nerve of a patient, the method comprising: activating one of the one or more electrode
   contacts or groups to stimulate the hypoglossal nerve of the patient; obtaining a first
   physiological measurement from the patient when the one of the one or more electrode
10 contacts or groups is activated; deactivating the one of the one or more electrode contacts
   or groups; obtaining a second physiological measurement from the patient when the one of
   the one or more electrode contacts or groups is deactivated; comparing the first and second
   physiological measurements to one another to determine a difference between the first and
   second physiological measurements; and adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of
15 the one or more electrode contacts or groups in response to the difference between the first
   and second physiological measurements.
   [0020]             In one embodiment, the first and second physiological measurements are
   airflow or tidal volume or derivative thereof measurements. In one embodiment, the first
   and second physiological measurements are blood oxygen saturation levels.                  In one
20 embodiment, the stimulation parameter is selected from the group consisting of stimulation
   amplitude, stimulation phase duration, stimulation frequency, contact group assignment,
   group or contact enablement, group ramp up time, group on time, group ramp down time,
   group gap time, group population percentage, inter- and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and
   combinations thereof. In a further embodiment, the method includes repeating the method
25 for each of the one or more electrode contacts or groups in the system.
             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0021]             The following detailed description will be better understood when read in
   conjunction with the appended drawings of an exemplary embodiment.                   It should be
30 understood, however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and
   instrumentalities shown.

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
   [0022]             In the drawings:
   [0023]            Fig. 1 is an exemplary illustration of an electrode attached to a patient's
   Hypoglossal nerve;
   [0024]             Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the electrode shown in Fig. 1;
 5 [0025]            Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the electrode shown in Fig. 1 showing a plurality
   of contacts; and
   [0026]            Fig. 4 is a graphical representation of an exemplary stimulation strategy.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0027]             One method of minimizing or preventing muscle fatigue is to use one or more
10 independent current sources to activate multiple portions of the desired muscle groups.
   This can be accomplished, for example, using OSA systems and methods such as those
   described in particular embodiments of U.S. Patent No. 8,428,725. U.S. Patent Application
   Publication No. 2011/0112601, and U.S. Patent No. 8,886,322, which are all incorporated
   herein by reference in their entirety. These systems and methods include attaching at least
15 one electrode to the patient's Hypoglossal nerve and applying an electric signal through the
   electrode to a portion of the Hypoglossal nerve (e.g., at least one targeted motor efferent
   located within the Hypoglossal nerve) to stimulate at least one muscle of the tongue so as
   to control the position of the patient's tongue. The systems and methods may also include
   the use of more than one contact (e.g., six contacts or more) to target more than one motor
20 efferent and allow for stimulation of more than one muscle. In some embodiments, the
   stimulation load to maintain the position of the tongue may be shared by each muscle.
   [0028]             One exemplary OSA system is illustrated in Figs. 1-3. In this system, one or
   more independent current sources drive one or more contacts (e.g., 764a, 764b, 764c and
   764d) that interface with Hypoglossal nerve (HGN) 322 in order to control the position of
25 tongue 110 of a patient. These contacts may be contained, for example, in a single cuff
   electrode 764 as shown in Figs. 2 and 3.                   In some embodiments, cuff electrode 764
   includes a total of six contacts.
   [0029]             In one embodiment, the OSA system is comprised of implanted and external
   elements which together act to provide continuous open loop targeted selective stimulation

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              -9
   of the HGN 322. The implanted elements (i.e. the elements implanted into the patient)
   may include, for example, an implantable pulse generator (IPG) (not shown) and cuff
   electrode 764. The external elements may include components such as a remote control
   and charger (RCC), a charge antenna (CA), and power supply for the patient, and a
 5 notebook computer with clinician's software programming system, as described in U.S.
   Patent No. 8,428,725, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2011/0112601, and U.S.
   Patent No. US 8,886,322.
   [0030]             In some embodiments, the IPG may be responsible for generating the pulses
   that activate the desired neurons within the HGN 322, and is implanted in the anterior
10 chest region of the patient. In further embodiments, cuff electrode 764 may attach to the
   IPG via an inline connector, and runs from the chest location of the IPG to the sub
   mandibular region where it is wrapped around the HGN 322. The IPG preferably contains
   a plurality of independent current sources (e.g, six, or one for each contact), each
   capacitively coupled via feedthroughs in its enclosure to the inline connector. The inline
15 connector may have six torroidal spring contacts which may mate with ring contacts of a
   proximal connector of cuff electrode 764. Each ring contact of the cuff electrode 764 may
   be connected by a wire in the cuff electrode 764 assembly to a contact within the self
   sizing cuff. Each contact may be shaped to match the curvature of the nerve bundle of the
   HGN 322, and the six contacts are located within the cuff so that six sectors of the nerve
20 circumference are in intimate contact with the cuff contacts. The IPG may be directed by
   the RCC to start and stop a sleep therapy treatment session, to provide information on the
   status of the IPG and cuff electrode 764, and is used in conjunction with the CA to
   replenish the energy within the IPG battery.                  The software may be used by a clinical
   engineer or clinician to program the OSA system for use in providing therapy to the
25 patient.
   [0031]             In certain embodiments, each contact of cuff electrode 764 is assigned to one or
   more functional or muscle groups. Functional groups may in turn be used to select regions
   of fibers within the nerve bundle that result in a desired tongue movement. The effort of
   moving the tongue to the desired position is thus shifted from one functional group to
30 another functional group so that no single functional group is required to work all of the
   time. Thus, the effort of moving the tongue is shared among multiple stimulated nerve

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 10
   fibers and their associated muscles, preventing or reducing fatigue because none of the
   groups are activated long enough to cause significant fatigue, and during their off, or non
   stimulated, state they are allowed to recover from the stimulation. In certain exemplary
   embodiments, each group is active until just before significant fatigue sets in. One or more
 5 additional groups are then activated to take its place, allowing the former muscle group
   fibers to rest. In one embodiment, the stimulation is spread over more than one contact
   wherein the duty cycle of each contact is overlapped (see Fig. 4).
   [0032]             As further shown in FIG. 4, functional groups may be used to establish load
   sharing, amplitude ramping, and delayed start of stimulation to optimize the delivery of
10 stimulation of the targeted nerve (the Hypoglossal nerve, for example). In the exemplary
   strategy of Fig. 4, stimulation is delayed after a patient begins a sleep session, allowing the
   patient to fall asleep before stimulation begins. Stimulation from each of the functional
   groups takes turns ramping up, holding the tongue in the desired position or state for a
   period of time that is sustainable without significant fatigue, before the next group starts
15 and the previous group stops allowing muscle fibers associated with the previous group to
   relax, and which helps to prevent fatigue but which maintains desirable tongue position or
   state all of the time.
   [0033]             Operation of the OSA systems according to some embodiments of the present
   invention may further include an adjustment or titration phase. In the titration phase, for
20 example, the electrode contacts may be tested to determine their threshold, target and
   maximum stimulation levels, what the actions of each of the electrode contacts elicits,
   testing of contact pairs or tripoles, etc., if warranted, and assignment of groups that may be
   used during patient use.
   [0034]             In some embodiments of the present invention, methods for titrating an OSA
25 system to fit the OSA system to a patient include adjusting one or more stimulation
   parameters of the OSA system in response to measurements taken from the OSA patient.
   Such methods may be used, for example, in order to tailor and/or optimize the performance
   of the OSA system to the specific patient and select the final stimulation parameters for
   patient use. According to some such embodiments, a method of titrating an OSA system
30 includes adjusting one or more parameters, for example, assignment of contacts to groups,

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                       - 11
   whether or not a contact or group is enabled or disabled, stimulation amplitude, stimulation
   phase duration, stimulation frequency, group ramp up time, group on time, group ramp
   down time, group gap time, group population percentages, inter- and intra-therapeutic
   periodicity, and combinations thereof. Gap time, as used herein, refers to the time that
 5 stimulation is not active for that contact or group. Other stimulation parameters of the
   system as described herein may also be adjusted during titration.                                   The stimulation
   parameters may be adjusted for one or more of the electrode contacts.                                       In some
   embodiments, the stimulation parameters are adjusted for each of the electrode contacts,
   for example, each of the six contacts of cuff electrode 764. In some embodiments, patient
10 comfort during the accommodation phase of treatment, wherein the patient gradually
   becomes accustomed to the sensation of electrical stimulation, may be assisted by allowing
   the patient to utilize an additional ramp applicable to all contacts for a desired duration
   during sleep therapy, and to apply an overall scale reduction in therapeutic levels until the
   patient is able to fully utilize the therapeutic settings without arousals.
15 [0035]                     In some embodiments, the one or more stimulation parameters are adjusted
   to improve one or more physiological measurements obtained from the patient during use
   of the OSA system. In some embodiments, the one or more stimulation parameters are
   adjusted to improve at least two physiological measurements obtained from the patient
   during use of the OSA system.                               Improvement of a physiological measurement can be
20 determined by a change in the physiological measurement toward a normative value (e.g.,
   a value exhibited by someone that is not suffering from OSA).                                    Such physiological
   measurements may include, for example, patient's respiratory airflow (e.g., nasal flow
   and/or oral flow), tidal volume, blood oxygen levels, heart rate, blood pressure, peripheral
   arterial         tone,            pulse             transit  time,    electroencephalography,     electromyography,
25 electrooculography, sleep state, snoring, and combinations and/or derivatives thereof.
   Derivatives include values which can be calculated or obtained from the physiological
   measurements taken of the patient. In some embodiments, derivatives may include, for
   example, effort, energy cost, 02 consumption, etc. In some embodiments, for example, the
   physiological measurements may be collected from the patient while the patient is asleep
30 and may be collected automatically                                 or at predetermined     times.     Preferably the
   measurements are taken while the patient is in the same sleep position (e.g., supine versus

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                     -12
   lateral) to minimize variability.                            Moreover, in some embodiments, the taking of
   measurements and/or other titration steps are stopped when the patient is in an aroused
   state or when some other predetermined condition of the patient occurs which could result
   in an error in the measurements. For example, in some embodiments, an error condition
 5 may be realized when one or more of the following occur:                                   positional changes, a
   predetermined number of changes per hour is exceeded, a predetermined limit on changes
   is reached, or device/system errors (e.g., loss of telemetry, lack of updated condition
   stimulation state or PSG signal, etc.). In some embodiments, the method may be stopped
   or altered if a worsening condition is detected in the one or more physiological
10 measurements.
   [0036]             In certain embodiments, one or more parameters of the OSA system are
   particularly           adjusted to improve airflow through the patient's airway.                        In some
   embodiments, the one or more parameters are adjusted in response to measurements of the
   patient's nasal flow, oral flow, and/or a combination of the nasal and oral flows (total
15 pulmonary airflow) and/or tidal volume.                                Tidal volume refers to the lung volume
   representing the normal volume of air displaced between normal inhalation and exhalation
   when extra effort is not applied.                          Patient airflow and/or tidal volume can be measured
   using any suitable technique known in the art. In one embodiment, patient airflow and/or
   tidal volume is measured using a flow sensor, for example, an additional flow sensor that
20 may be connected to a CPAP mask. In some embodiments, the airflow measurements may
   be collected and recorded automatically.                             In some embodiments, tidal volume is not
   measured directly but is a derivative value that can be obtained from the airflow
   measurements by integrating the flow signal that is timed to commence from the point at
   which flow starts during inhalation and stops prior to exhalation. In some embodiments,
25 for example., the one or more parameters (e.g., stimulation amplitude, stimulation phase
   duration, stimulation frequency, etc.) may be adjusted or increased if the measured air
   nasal and/or oral flow and/or tidal volume of the patient is less than a desired target value
   or threshold. In some embodiments, the target value or threshold is a predetermined value.
   In some embodiments, the target value or threshold is an airflow or tidal volume value for
30 a person that is not suffering from OSA. After the adjustments to the one or more
   parameters, additional airflow and/or tidal volume measurements can be taken to assess the

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 13
   effect of the adjustments on the patient's airflow and/or tidal volume. If the measured
   values are still suboptimal relative to the desired target value or threshold, further
   adjustments to the one or more parameters can be made and the steps repeated until the
   measured airflow reaches the target value or threshold.                         For example, incremental
 5 adjustments in the values of one or more stimulation parameters can be made, with airflow
   measurements taken after each adjustment, until the target value or threshold has been met.
   [0037]             In some embodiments, the one more parameters of the OSA system are adjusted
   to improve a patient's oxygen saturation level, for example, peripheral capillary oxygen
   saturation (SpO2).                    The oxygen saturation level (e.g., SpO2) can be measured using any
10 suitable technique known in the art.                       For example, in some embodiments, oxygen
   saturation level measurements may be made using a finger pulse oximeter.                         In some
   embodiments, the oxygen saturation level measurements may be collected and recorded
   automatically.                In certain embodiments, the one or more parameters (e.g., stimulation
   amplitude, stimulation phase duration, stimulation frequency, etc.) may be adjusted or
15 increased if the measured oxygen saturation level is less than a desired target value or
   threshold. In some embodiments, the target value or threshold is a predetermined value.
   In some embodiments, the target value or threshold is an oxygen saturation level for a
   person that is not suffering from OSA.                        After the adjustments to the one or more
   parameters, additional measurements can be taken to assess the effect of the adjustments
20 on the patient's oxygen saturation level.                     If the measured values are still suboptimal
   relative to the desired target value or threshold, further adjustments to the one or more
   parameters can be made and the steps repeated until the measured oxygen saturation level
   reaches the target value or threshold. For example, incremental adjustments in the values
   of one or more stimulation parameters can be made, with oxygen saturation levels taken
25 after each adjustment, until the target value or threshold has been met.
   [0038]             In some embodiments, titration of the OSA system based on a patient's oxygen
   saturation level may be used as an alternative to titration based on patient airflow. In other
   embodiments, both patient airflow (e.g., nasal flow and/or oral flow) and oxygen saturation
   level (e.g., SpO2) are measured. In some such embodiments, both the airflow and oxygen
30 saturation levels must improve before a change to the one or more stimulation parameters
   is accepted for patient use. For example, if an increase in a stimulation parameter (e.g.,

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                      - 14
   stimulation amplitude or frequency) for a particular contact results in increased airflow but
   not increased oxygen saturation level, the increase in the stimulation parameter for the
   contact may not be used.
   [0039]             The one or more stimulation parameters can also be adjusted in response to
 5 other measurements obtained from the patient according to certain embodiments. In some
   embodiments, for example, the patient's sleep state can also be measured (e.g., via
   electroencephalography) and used to determine adjustments to the one or more stimulation
   parameters in addition to or as an alternative to airflow and/or oxygen saturation level. In
   some embodiments, an improvement in a patient's sleep state can be measured, for
10 example, as a decrease in the number of arousals or microarousals. In some embodiments,
   change in a patient's sleep state can be determined, for example, via monitoring changes in
   eye        movement,                      leg            movement,   electroencephalography,   electromyography,
   electrooculography, REM sleep, or combinations thereof.
   [0040]             The one or more stimulation parameters can also be adjusted in response to
15 other measurements obtained from the patient according to certain embodiments. In some
   embodiments, for example, the patient's blood pressure or arterial tone can also be
   measured (e.g., via pulse transit time (PTT) or peripheral artery tone (PAT)) and used to
   determine adjustments to the one or more stimulation parameters in addition to or as an
   alternative to airflow and/or oxygen saturation level.                                 In some embodiments,   an
20 improvement in a patient's sleep state can be measured, for example, as a decrease in PTT
   or PAT.
   [0041]             In one embodiment, a method of titrating an OSA system includes stimulating
   one electrode contact or group at a time, comparing physiological measurements (e.g.,
   airflow and/or oxygen saturation level) taken during stimulation and when stimulation is
25 off, using stimulation on time to control how long stimulation is applied, and using gap
   time to control how long stimulation is off, adjusting one or more stimulation parameters,
   and verifying that the adjustments to the one or more stimulation parameters leads to
   improved physiological measurements when the stimulation is provided compared to when
   stimulation is off. For example, in some embodiments, stimulation is turned on for two
30 breaths and turned off for the next two breaths, with the physiological measurements taken

         R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                          - 15
   during each set. In other embodiments, stimulation is turned on for one breath and turned
   off for one breath. In yet other embodiments, stimulation is turned on for more than two
   breaths and turned off for more than two breaths. In further embodiments, a method of
   titrating an OSA system includes stimulating the electrode contacts or groups during
 5 therapy, keeping a running average of the physiological measurements (e.g., airflow and/or
   oxygen saturation level), and adjusting the stimulation parameters to improve the
   physiological measurements.                                 These steps may be repeated with incremental adjustments
   being made to the stimulation parameters each time until, for example, the desired
   improvement is achieved, the stimulation parameter reaches a pre-set limit, or it is
10 otherwise determined that adjustment of that particular stimulation parameter does not lead
   to an improvement. The steps may also be repeated for each of the electrode contacts or
   groups. In some embodiments, a method further includes comparing the performance of
   each electrode contact or group and using a threshold to determine which contact(s) or
   group(s) to use during therapy. Example data that may be collected during the parameter
15 adjustments include maximum airflow, minimum airflow, average airflow, maximum
   oxygen saturation level, minimum oxygen saturation level, and/or average oxygen
   saturation level. These data may be collected for each of the electrode contacts or groups.
   [0042]              As described, it may be desirable to adjust stimulation parameters when more
   than one group or contact is enabled. After initial titration is performed on each group or
20 contact individually, and groups and or contacts are determined and enabled that provide
   useful function for the therapy the patient performance may be monitored during normal
   cyclical use of the system. Because the IPG and lead are implanted, there may not be a
   direct method available to know which group/contact is active, but it may be desirable to
   adjust group/contacts as observations confirm that stimulation parameter changes are
25 required. In polysomnography (PSG) operation the IPG may tirelessly send or broadcast
   information to the RCC when it changes from one group/contact to another. The RCC,
   upon receiving this information may make this information available to the clinician
   through the system software, and may also generate two signals that are recorded by the
   PSG system.                  One signal may indicate which group/contact is active by generating a
30 number of pulses corresponding to the number of the group or contact. For example, if
   group three becomes active the IPG sends a message to the RCC, the RCC receives this

         R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                          -16
   message and it generates three pulses on this line to the PSG system.                                      In some
   embodiments, the amplitude of the contact may also be broadcast by the IPG.                                     This
   information may be encoded by the RCC on a second line that is attached to the PSG
   system. The encoded amplitude information may include a series of pulses that indicate
 5 the range of the amplitude, followed by a constant level signal that indicates the level of
   the signal within this amplitude range. The amplitude information that is sent to the PSG
   system may be most useful in post-analysis of the PSG data, as the IPG amplitude is
   already known to the clinical software system, but which group becomes active is only
   known to the IPG. In this way the clinician may be alerted to which contact is active and
10 therefore which may be in need of adjustment, and the adjustment may be made while the
   therapy is active.                    The incorporation of the group and amplitude signals into the PSG
   record may also allow post analysis of the performance of the implanted system with
   respect to breathing performance indices.
   [0043]              As described, adjustments to the one or more stimulation parameters during the
15 titration may be made in incremental changes according to some embodiments.                                      For
   example, the stimulation parameters may be increased or decreased in increments based
   upon any percentage of the existing levels, for example ±5 or ±10%, or by incremental
   changes, for instance, 5, 10, 25 or 50pA step sizes for amplitude adjustments.                              In some
   embodiments, the stimulation parameters are increased or decreased by a predetermined
20 percentage or predetermined step amount. These example values should not be considered
   limiting, and those skilled in the art will understand that other methods or levels of
   stimulation adjustment are possible. In some embodiments, the stimulation parameters are
   adjusted within pre-set limits.                              In further embodiments, the stimulation parameters are
   adjusted with a limited rate of change.                                    In some embodiments, stimulation levels
25 previously determined to cause discomfort or arousal may be used as limits for the
   stimulation adjustments.                                  In some embodiments,     stimulation levels below which
   insufficient therapeutic effects are produced may also be used as limits for the stimulation
   adjustments.
   [0044]                      In some embodiments, the titration methods described herein may allow a
30 clinical engineer or clinician to fit the OSA system onto a patient and determine the
   optimal stimulation parameters (e.g., stimulation amplitude and/or frequency) for each of

         R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                               - 17
   the electrode contacts. In some embodiments, the parameter values obtained through the
   titration methods may be inputted, for example, into a Titration Screen of the software
   used by the clinical engineer or clinician to program the OSA system, which may include
   controls for the stimulation parameters (e.g., amplitude, frequency, etc.) where threshold,
 5 target and maximum stimulation parameters are determined for each of the six contacts of
   the system. In some embodiments, the titration methods described herein may allow the
   clinical software to automatically adjust levels of stimulation based upon measured and
   analyzed physiological signals under the guidance of the clinical engineer or clinician.
   [0045]              The embodiments described herein may include or utilize one or more
10 computers having one or more processors and memory (e.g., one or more nonvolatile
   storage devices). In some embodiments, memory or computer readable storage medium of
   memory stores programs, modules and data structures, or a subset thereof for a processor
   to control and run the various systems and methods disclosed herein. In one embodiment, a
   non-transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer
15 executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, perform one or more of the
   methods disclosed herein.
   [0046]              It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to
   the exemplary embodiments shown and described above without departing from the broad
   inventive concepts thereof. It is understood, therefore, that this invention is not limited to
20 the exemplary embodiments shown and described, but it is intended to cover modifications
   within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. For example,
   specific features of the exemplary embodiments may or may not be part of the claimed
   invention and various features of the disclosed embodiments may be combined. Unless
   specifically set forth herein, the terms "a, "an" and "the" are not limited to one element
25 but instead should be read as meaning "at least one".
   [0047]              It is to be understood that at least some of the figures and descriptions of the
   invention have been simplified to focus on elements that are relevant for a clear
   understanding of the invention, while eliminating, for purposes of clarity, other elements
   that those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate may also comprise a portion of the
30 invention. However, because such elements are well known in the art, and because they do

       E:\pw\Inerwven\R~orhl\CC\P~il5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 18
  not necessarily facilitate a better understanding of the invention, a description of such
  elements is not provided herein.
  [0048]             Further, to the extent that the methods of the present invention do not rely on
  the particular order of steps set forth herein, the particular order of the steps should not be
5 construed as limitation on the claims. Any claims directed to the methods of the present
  invention should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written, and
  one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the steps may be varied and still remain
  within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 19
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.         A method for titrating a stimulation parameter for one or more electrode contacts in
   a system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient, the method comprising:
              activating one of the one or more electrode contacts to stimulate the hypoglossal
 5 nerve of the patient;
              obtaining a first physiological measurement from the patient;
              comparing the first physiological measurement to a first predetermined target
   value; and
              adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts
10 if the first physiological measurement differs from the first predetermined target value.
   2.         The method of claim I further comprising:
              repeating the method until the first physiological measurement reaches the first
   predetermined target value or until the stimulation parameter reaches a pre-set limit.
15
   3.         The method of claim 2, wherein the stimulation parameter is changed incrementally
   during the adjustment steps.
   4.         The method of claim 3, wherein the stimulation parameter is changed by a
20 percentage of the existing value during each of the adjustment steps.
   5.         The method of claim 1 further comprising:
              wirelessly transmitting information to a display and/or recording device regarding
   which of the one or more electrode contacts is activated.
25
   6.         The method of claim 5, wherein the information includes an identity of an activated
   electrode contact, and the method further comprising:
              generating a number of pulses corresponding to the identity of the activated
   electrode contact.
30

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 20
   7.         The method of claim 6, wherein the information includes an amplitude of the
   activated electrode contact, and the method further comprising: generating a number of
   pulses corresponding to the scale of the amplitude and generating a voltage level
   corresponding to the amplitude within that amplitude scale.
 5
   8.         The method of claim 1 further comprising:
              obtaining a second physiological measurement from the patient, comparing the
   second physiological measurement to a second predetermined target value, and adjusting a
   stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts if the second
10 physiological measurement differs from the second predetermined target value.
   9.         The method of claim 8, wherein the first and second physiological measurements
   are selected from the group consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood
   oxygen saturation level, blood pressure, peripheral arterial tone, pulse transit time,
15 electroencephalography, electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or
   derivatives thereof.
   10.        The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed while the patient is
   asleep.
20
   11.        The method of claim 10, wherein adjustment of the stimulation parameter is paused
   while an arousal of the patient is detected, a worsening or altered condition of the first
   physiological measurement is detected, or a predetermined condition of the patient is
   detected.
25
   12.        The method of claim 1, wherein the system is configured for preventing obstructive
   sleep apnea in the patient.
   13.        The method of claim 12, wherein the first predetermined target value is a value of a
30 person who does not have obstructive sleep apnea.

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                                        - 21
   14.        The method of claim 1, wherein the stimulation parameter is selected from the
   group consisting of stimulation amplitude,                                 stimulation phase duration, stimulation
   frequency, contact group assignment, group or contact enablement, group ramp up time,
   group on time, group ramp down time, group gap time, group population percentage, inter
 5 and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and combinations thereof.
   15.        The method of claim 1, wherein the first physiological measurement is selected
   from the group consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood oxygen
   saturation           level,           blood             pressure, peripheral   arterial tone, pulse   transit time,
10 electroencephalography, electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or
   derivatives thereof.
   16.        The method of claim 1 further comprising:
              repeating the method for each of the one or more electrode contacts or groups in the
15 system.
   17.        The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more electrode contacts includes a
   plurality of electrode contacts, each electrode contact being connected to an independent
   current source.
20
   18.        The method of claim 1, wherein the system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a
   patient includes six electrode contacts arranged on a cuff electrode and is configured for
   controlling a position of the patient's tongue.
25 19.        A method for titrating a stimulation parameter for one or more electrode contacts in
   a system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient, the method comprising:
              activating one of the one or more electrode contacts to stimulate the hypoglossal
   nerve of the patient;
              obtaining a first physiological measurement from the patient;
30            obtaining a second physiological measurement from the patient;

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              -22
              comparing the first physiological measurement to a first predetermined target
   value;
              comparing the second physiological measurement to a second predetermined target
   value;
 5            adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts
   if the first physiological measurement differs from the first predetermined target value or
   the second physiological measurement differs from the second predetennined target value;
   and
              repeating the method until the first physiological measurement reaches the first
10 predetermined target value and/or the second physiological measurement reaches the
   second predetermined target value, or until the stimulation parameter reaches a pre-set
   limit.
   20.        The method of claim 19, wherein the first and second physiological measurements
15 are selected from the group consisting of nasal airflow, oral airflow, tidal volume, blood
   oxygen saturation level, blood pressure, peripheral arterial tone, pulse transit time,
   electroencephalography, electromyography, electrooculography, and combinations and/or
   derivatives thereof.
20 21.        The method of claim 20, wherein the stimulation parameter is selected from the
   group consisting of stimulation amplitude,                     stimulation phase duration, stimulation
   frequency, contact group assignment, group or contact enablement, group ramp up time,
   group on time, group ramp down time, group gap time, group population percentage, inter
   and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and combinations thereof.
25
   22.        The method of claim 19 further comprising:
              repeating the method for each of the one or more electrode contacts or groups in the
   system.

        R~p~\Inerwoen\R~orhl\CC\P~i,5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 23
   23.        The method of claim 19, wherein the system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of
   a patient includes six electrode contacts arranged on a cuff electrode and is configured for
   controlling a position of the patient's tongue.
 5 24.        A method for titrating a stimulation parameter for one or more electrode contacts or
   groups in a system for stimulating a hypoglossal nerve of a patient, the method comprising:
              activating one of the one or more electrode contacts or groups to stimulate the
   hypoglossal nerve of the patient;
              obtaining a first physiological measurement from the patient when the one of the
10 one or more electrode contacts or groups is activated;
              deactivating the one of the one or more electrode contacts or groups;
              obtaining a second physiological measurement from the patient when the one of the
   one or more electrode contacts or groups is deactivated;
              comparing the first and second physiological measurements to one another to
15 determine a difference between the first and second physiological measurements; and
              adjusting a stimulation parameter for the one of the one or more electrode contacts
   or groups in response to the difference between the first and second physiological
   measurements.
20 25.        The method of claim 24, wherein the first and second physiological measurements
   are airflow or tidal volume or derivative thereof measurements.
   26.        The method of claim 24, wherein the first and second physiological measurements
   are blood oxygen saturation levels.
25
   27.        The method of claim 24, wherein the stimulation parameter is selected from the
   group consisting of stimulation amplitude,                      stimulation phase duration, stimulation
   frequency, contact group assignment, group or contact enablement, group ramp up time,
   group on time, group ramp down time, group gap time, group population percentage, inter
30 and intra-therapeutic periodicity, and combinations thereof.

       E:\pw\Inerwven\R~orhl\CC\P~il5460J77_i.doex- 1/03/2018
                                                              - 24
  28.         The method of claim 24 further comprising:
              repeating the method for each of the one or more electrode contacts or groups in the
  system.
5 29.         The method of claim 1, wherein the method is managed under algorithmic control
  by a clinical software system under the supervision of a clinician or engineer.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
