  Abstract
  An optical fiber connector, comprising: an optical fiber having a bare end, the bare
  end including an end face and further including a core and a cladding surrounding
  the core; wherein the optical fiber connector is ferrule-less; a radius of curvature of
5 the core is smaller than a radius of curvature of the cladding; the radius of curvature
  of the core at the end face is in a range from 0.14 millimeter to 4 millimeters; and
  the radius of curvature of the cladding at the end face in a range from 0.4 millimeter
  to 4 millimeters.

        30/69
              UL
          i0
        Cos
C4)
0
         crv)
       LC4
    0t

      OPTICAL FIBER CONNECTOR AND METHOD OF MAKING AN OPTICAL
                                    FIBER CONNECTOR
            This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2012218003 and Australian Patent Application No. 2015249209 the entire contents
 5 of which are incorporated by reference herein.
   The entire contents of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/443,933 filed on 17
   February 2011, U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/443,942 filed on 17 February
   2011, European Patent Application Serial No. 11174376.1 filed on 18 July 2011,
   U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/544,880 filed 07 October 2011, European
10 Patent Application Serial No. 12151987.0 filed on 20 January 2012, and European
   Patent Application Serial No. 12151988.8 filed on 20 January 2012, are incorporated
   herein by reference in their entirety.
            The present invention relates to an optical fiber connector and a method of
15 making an optical fiber connector, as well as an optical fiber connector combination.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
            Optical fiber processing devices can be used on level ground but also under
   difficult conditions, such as on ladders, on telegraph poles, on roofs.
20          When an optical fiber is processed, by for instance stripping, cleaning,
   cleaving, different devices appropriate for the chosen processing step have to be
   used. As a result when applying one of the mentioned processes, a stripping device,
   a cleaning device and a cleaving device must be stored separately and carried in
   often difficult surroundings. For example, when conducting work on a ladder, the
25 worker conducts the desired processing using a related device and, thereafter, he/she
   must pull out another device after having placed the previous device in its initial
   position. Thus the worker must operate with the weight of several devices as a
   burden. Furthermore, for every processing operation, the worker must be skilled in
   the art in order to process the delicate optical fiber correctly.
30          Moreover, conventional optical fiber cutting devices have no specific
   integrated construction for collecting the debris which can arise as a result of
                                                    1

   processing an optical fiber, such as cut buffer material, coating, small and larger
   glass parts (depending on the glass break position). Therefore, optical fiber debris is
   directly discarded at a construction site, thus resulting in environmental pollution.
            Patent  application    W02006/112675       discloses  a portable    device   for
 5 processing an optical fiber by means of several processing units, such as a stripping
   unit, an optical fiber cutting unit, a welding unit for welding junction portions of two
   optical fibers. Stripping, cutting, cleaning and welding can all be performed using a
   single apparatus.
10
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In accordance with the present invention there is provided an optical fiber
   connector, comprising: an optical fiber having a bare end, the bare end including an
15 end face and further including a core and a cladding surrounding the core; wherein
   the optical fiber connector is ferrule-less; a radius of curvature of the core is smaller
   than a radius of curvature of the cladding; the radius of curvature of the core at the
   end face is in a range from 0.14 millimeter to 4 millimeters; and the radius of
   curvature of the cladding at the end face in a range from 0.4 millimeter to 4
20 millimeters.
          In accordance with the present invention there is also provided a method of
   making an optical fiber connector, comprising:-mechanically cleaving a bare end of
   an optical fiber of the optical fiber connector thereby obtaining an end face of the
   bare end, the optical fiber comprising a core and a cladding surrounding the core;
25 and - heat treating the end face to provide a radius of curvature of the core smaller
   than a radius of curvature of the cladding at the end face, wherein the radius of
   curvature of the core at the end face is in a range from 0.14 millimeter to 4
   millimeters; the radius of curvature of the cladding at the end face in a range from
   0.4 millimeter to 4 millimeters; and the optical fiber connector is ferrule-less.
30 Various other features of the invention and features of the related disclosure
   presented herein are outlined below.
            A portable device for attaching a connector to an optical fiber is disclosed
                                                    2

   herein, the optical fiber having an end, the device comprising means for receiving
   the optical fiber at the end of the optical fiber; and a station for autonomously
   attaching the connector to the optical fiber.
           Also disclosed is a method for attaching a connector to an optical fiber by
 5 means of a portable tool, the method comprising receiving the optical fiber by the
   portable tool at an end of the optical fiber; coupling a station of the portable tool to
   the end of the optical fiber for attaching the connector to the optical fiber; and
   autonomously attaching the connector to the optical fiber at the station.
           An important advantage of such a device is that it can be used by an
10 unskilled operator, whereas operations on optical fibers usually require high skill.
   Another advantage is that the device is convenient and very easy to use.
           In some embodiments of the device, a connector is attached to an optical
   fiber.
           In some embodiments, one or more preparation steps are performed to
15 prepare an optical fiber for attachment of a connector.
           In embodiments, an optical fiber is prepared for attachment of a connector
   and subsequently the connector is attached.
           The present disclosure includes various aspects which can be integrated in
   one toll or can be separate devices relating to fiber optic connectors, fiber optic
20 connector processing systems, and fiber optic connector processing methods. It will
   be appreciated that such aspects are ideally suited for application with a portable
   device for pre-processing and attaching a fiber optic connector to an optical fiber.
   However, it will also be appreciated that the various connectors, systems and
   methods disclosed herein can further be used alone or in various combinations
25 outside of their applicability to such a portable device. Thus, the connectors, systems
   and methods disclosed herein have broad applications to any type of optical fiber
   and connector processing operation and certainly are not limited for use with a
   portable connector installation device.
           The present disclosure also relates to a device including a housing defining a
30 fiber insertion opening for receiving an optical fiber. The device can include a
   mechanism within the housing for securing a connector body on the optical fiber
   when the optical fiber is inserted in the fiber insertion opening. In certain
                                                   3

   embodiments, the device can also include one or more stations within the housing
   for pre-processing an optical fiber prior to securing the connector body onto the
   optical fiber. One example station includes an arc treatment station. Another
   example station includes a stripping station. A further example station includes a
 5 cleaving station. Another example station includes a testing station. A further
   example station includes a connector body holding and heating station. In certain
   embodiments a connector cartridge holding a plurality of connector bodies can be
   mounted within the housing. In certain embodiments, the connector cartridge can
   function as a carousel for consecutively positioning connector bodies at a dispensing
10 location where the connector bodies are individually loaded from the connector
   cartridge to the connector body and heating station. In certain embodiments, at least
   some of the stations are carried by a carriage that is moveable back and forth (i.e.,
   the carrier reciprocates) in an orientation along an insertion axis of the optical fiber.
   In certain embodiments, a fiber clamp is mounted to the carriage and is movable
15 along the insertion axis of the optical fiber. In certain embodiments, the clamp is
   used to pull a predetermined length of optical fiber into the housing along the
   insertion axis. In certain embodiments, a first clamp is provided on the carrier, a
   second fiber clamp is axially fixed relative to the housing, and a third fiber clamp is
   positioned between the first and second fiber clamps. In certain embodiments, the
20 carrier can pivot about a pivot axis parallel to the fiber insertion axis. In certain
   embodiments, the carrier includes a rotating head that can be indexed about an axis
   of rotation that is generally transverse with respect to the fiber insertion axis. In
   certain embodiments, the arc treatment station, the test station and the connector
   holder and heating station can be mounted on the rotating head and the rotating head
25 functions as a carousel for positioning the stations in alignment with the fiber
   insertion axis. In any of the above embodiments, a waste collection system can be
   provide within the housing for collecting debris such as stripped coatings and
   cleaving debris. Any of the above features can be provided individually or in any
   combination with one another.
30         The present disclosure also relates to a device including a housing defining a
   fiber insertion opening for receiving an optical fiber. The device can include a
   mechanism within the housing for stripping an optical fiber and for arc treating an
                                                   4

   unspliced end of the optical fiber.
           In one embodiment, an optical fiber is received by the device, all required
   operations to prepare the fiber are performed, and subsequently the optical fiber is
   attached; this whole process is completely automatic, i.e. an optical fiber is input to
 5 the device, and the output of the device is the optical fiber with attached connector,
   and this without any manual action from e.g. the operator. This process may take
   about 40 seconds.
           In another embodiment, the operations in the different stations of the device
   are performed autonomously, but, between operations, there is an action from e.g.
10 the operator. The operator may e.g. push a button to start a next operation, for
   instance after checking a status of a previous operation on a display. Thus, the
   operations are still performed autonomously, but the complete process is not fully
   automatic.
           In yet another embodiment, not all preparation steps are performed in the
15 device but one or more pre-treatment and/or post-treatment steps are performed
   outside of the device. An example of such a pre-treatment step is the removal of an
   outer, reinforced coating (such as e.g. a Kevlar coating) from the optical fiber. An
   example of a post-treatment step not performed in the device is the attachment of a
   boot to the connector: the boot may be slid by the operator over the optical fiber
20 before the fiber is prepared and the connector may be attached by the tool, and
   afterwards the boot is attached to the connector by the operator. In another
   embodiment, the boot may be attached automatically by the device.
           Another advantage of the device is its high reliability: optical fibers are
   prepared and a connector is attached with a very high degree of reliability, and this
25 combined with a very high degree of automation.
           Still another advantage of some embodiments of a device in accordance with
   the present disclosure is that optical fibers having different diameters can be
   processed.
           An advantage of some embodiments of a device in accordance with the
30 present disclosure is that different types of optical fibers can be processed, including
   tight and semi-tight types.
           Another advantage is that some embodiments of a device in accordance with
                                                   5

   the present disclosure require just 30 cm of free length of optical fiber to prepare the
   fiber and attach a connector. For prior art mechanical splicing, 1.5 to 2 m of fiber is
   required.
           A device according to the present disclosure is portable. It is preferred that
 5 the device is hand-held. In some embodiments, the device can be mounted on a
   tripod. In some embodiments, the device can be put on a table. In some
   embodiments, it can be put in a firm box, e.g. to protect the device using transport.
   In one embodiment, the device may have an approximately cylindrical shape, with
   a diameter of about 8 cm and a length of about 30 cm.
10         Different processing steps may be performed in a device in accordance with
   the present disclosure, to prepare an optical fiber for attaching a connector, and to
   attach the connector. These processing steps that will be discussed in detail further
   below may include:
   - Stripping
15 -   Cleaning
   - Tensile test
   - Cleaving
   - Heat treatment, such as arc treatment
   - Inspection
20 - Place connector and attach connector
           Not all these processing steps are necessarily included. The order in which
   the steps are performed may vary. Other steps may be included. The connector may
   comprise several parts (e.g. the "engine", or inner part, and the "outer housing") that
25 may be placed in different substeps.
           The present disclosure provides a method, for instance a heat treatment such
   as arc treatment, for mechanically connecting optical fibers wherein the optical
   fibers have a high mating endurance, i.e. a high endurance to a large number of
   connection and disconnection operations, which are also called "matings" and
30 "dematings" in this document. It is another advantage of embodiments of the present
   disclosure to provide optical connectors that have a high mating endurance. The
   optical connectors may be ferrule-less connectors. It has been found that the mating
                                                  6

   endurance of mechanically cleaved optical fibers is improved appreciably when
   exposing the bare ends of the optical fibers, i.e. the cladding and the core of the
   optical fibers from which the coatings are removed, to a specific heat treatment.
   According to embodiments the specific heat treatment may be a specific arc
 5 treatment. According to embodiments, optical fibers that were mechanically cleaved
   and subsequently heat treated may be connected and disconnected a large number
   of times, e.g. up to fifty times and more. This allows for a new ferrule-less connector
   that is very well suited to be used in the FTTx segment (such as FTTH, "Fiber To
   The Home"). In this segment, a very easy field installation is an advantage.
10         Ferrule-less connectivity is known. However, earlier attempts to introduce
   ferrule-less connectors in the so-called outside plant (i.e. the network facilities
   outside of the central office) were not successful.
           The successful       development of a low-loss easy-to-install ferrule-less
   connector according to embodiments of the present invention provides a significant
15 advantage.
           One of the main advantages provided by embodiments of the present
   invention is a connector having durability after a sequence of matings and
   dematings. In embodiments in accordance with the invention, the connection may
   have a low insertion loss and high return loss after up to fifty mating-demating
20 cycles.
           In an embodiment an optical fiber connector is provided for mechanical
   connection to another optical fiber connector, the optical fiber connector comprising
   an optical fiber having a bare end, the bare end having an end face and comprising a
   core and a cladding surrounding the core, wherein the cladding has a radius of
25 curvature at the end face in the range from 0.4 mm to 4 mm. The radius of curvature
   of said cladding may be obtained by a heat treatment of said end face. The core may
   have a radius of curvature at said end face in the range from 0.14 mm to 4 mm. The
   radius of curvature of the core may be smaller than the radius of curvature of the
   cladding.
30         An embodiment of the invention provides an optical fiber connector wherein
   the core protrudes from the cladding with a protrusion height in the range from 10 to
   200 nm, preferably in the range from 10 to 150 nm, more preferably in the range
                                                  7

   from 30 to 60 nm. The protrusion of the core from the cladding may be obtained by
   a heat treatment of said end face.
           In one embodiment of an optical fiber connector according to the invention,
   said optical fiber has an axis and said end face makes an angle with respect to a
 5 plane perpendicular to said axis, wherein said angle is in the range from 5' to 500,
   preferably in the range from 5' to 15'.
           The invention further provides in an embodiment of the invention an optical
   fiber connector combination comprising a first optical fiber connector according to
   the invention, a second optical fiber connector according to the invention, and an
10 adapter for connecting said first and said second optical fiber connector.
           In another embodiment of the invention, an optical fiber connector
   combination is provided comprising a first optical fiber connector according to the
   invention and a second optical fiber connector according to the invention, wherein
   said first optical fiber connector is a male connector and said second optical fiber
15 connector is a female connector.
           An embodiment of the present invention provides an optical fiber connector
   for mechanical connection to another optical fiber connector, said optical fiber
   connector comprising an optical fiber having a bare end, said bare end having an end
   face and comprising a core and a cladding surrounding the core, wherein said core
20 has a radius of curvature at said end face in the range from 0.14 mm to 4 mm. Said
   radius of curvature of said core may be obtained by a heat treatment of said end
   face. Said cladding may have a radius of curvature at said end face in the range from
   0.4 mm to 4 mm. Said radius of curvature of said core may be smaller than said
   radius of curvature of said cladding.
25         The invention provides in an embodiment an optical fiber connector wherein
   said cladding has a radius of curvature at said end face in the range from 0.4 mm to
   4 mm. The core may have a radius of curvature at said end face in the range from
   0.14 mm to 4 mm. The radius of curvature of said core may be smaller than said
   radius of curvature of said cladding.
30         In   one embodiment       the  present   invention   provides  a method     for
   mechanically connecting a first and a second optical fiber connector, the first optical
   fiber connector comprising a first optical fiber having a first bare end and
                                                  8

   comprising a core and a cladding surrounding the core, the method comprising the
   steps of mechanically cleaving said first bare end, thus obtaining a first end face of
   said first bare end; and heat treating said first end face. In an embodiment, the
   method further comprises heat treating said first end face such that said cladding has
 5 a radius of curvature at said first end face in the range from 0.14 mm to 4 mm after
   said heat treating. Said second optical fiber connector may be a ferruled optical fiber
   connector, the method further comprising connecting said first optical fiber
   connector to said second optical fiber connector via a converter. Said second optical
   fiber connector may comprise a second optical fiber having a second bare end, the
10 method further comprising the steps of mechanically cleaving said second bare end,
   thus obtaining a second end face of said second bare end; and heat treating said
   second end face. The method may further comprise heat treating said second end
   face such that said cladding has a radius of curvature at said second end face in the
   range from 0.14 mm to 4 mm after said heat treating. The method may further
15 comprise connecting said first optical fiber connector to said second optical fiber
   connector and subsequently disconnecting said first optical fiber connector from said
   second    optical fiber   connector,   wherein said     connecting    and subsequently
   disconnecting is performed a plurality of times, e.g. at least ten times, or at least fifty
   times.
20         In one embodiment, there is disclosed a method comprising connecting said
   first optical fiber connector to said second optical fiber connector via an adapter.
   Said adapter may comprise an index matching material, the method further
   comprising connecting said first optical fiber connector to said second optical fiber
   connector via said index matching material.
25         The first optical fiber connector may be a male connector and the second
   optical fiber connector may be a female connector.
           In one embodiment, the invention provides a method comprising applying
   said electric arc treating during a time period in the range from 120 ms to 280 ms,
   preferably during a time period in the range from 150 ms to 250 ms. Said electric arc
30 treating may be applied using a cathode and an anode having a separation distance
   and wherein said separation distance is in the range from 1.5 mm to 4 mm.
           The invention provides in an embodiment a method wherein said mechanical
                                                   9

   cleaving is an angled cleaving. Said angled cleaving may be a cleaving under an
   angle in the range from 5' to 500, preferably in the range from 5' to 15'.
           The invention provides in one embodiment a method for mechanically
   connecting a first and a second optical fiber connector, the first optical fiber
 5 connector comprising an optical fiber having a bare end, the method comprising the
   steps of mechanically cleaving the bare end, thus obtaining an end face of the bare
   end and heat treating the end face.
           In the embodiments disclosed above, the heat treatment may be an electric
   arc treatment.
10         In an embodiment as disclosed herein an optical fiber connector may
   comprise an optical fiber having a bare end, the bare end having an end face, the end
   face having a rounded edge. The insertion loss of a connection of two said optical
   fiber connectors is smaller than 0.25 dB. This embodiment of an optical fiber
   connector may be obtained by an embodiment of a method in accordance with the
15 invention.
           Embodiments of the disclosure may have one or more of the following
   advantages, as discussed in more detail further below. The connection is relatively
   inexpensive. The connection has low insertion loss and high return loss. A large
   number     of connections    and disconnections      is possible   without  significant
20 deterioration of the quality of the optical connection. The power required for the
   heat treatment of the end face is relatively low, so that the method can be used as
   one of the fiber end treatment steps in a portable, even in a hand-held tool for
   preparing an optical fiber end for attaching a connector, possibly including attaching
   the connector by the tool.
25         When comparing embodiments disclosed herein to the prior art laser cutting
   and simultaneous polishing method disclosed above, embodiments of the present
   invention use mechanically cleaving and only use heat treatment for treating the end
   face, not for cutting. The heat treatment of the end face can thus be done using lower
   power levels. The edges of the end face are rounded by the heat treatment. The
30 lower power level allows to obtain rounded edges having a smaller radius of
   curvature. Insertion losses are also lower when using a heat treatment in accordance
   with the invention, when compared to the laser cutting and polishing method.
                                                  10

   Without being hindered by theory, we believe that a smaller radius of curvature will
   result in a smaller insertion loss.
            The heat treatment applied to the end face can be laser heating as a result of
   laser irradiation, or a plasma arc treatment, or an electric arc treatment, or another
 5 heat treatment as known in the art.
            The irradiation can be applied under different angles and positions as well,
   for instance frontally illuminating the fiber end face or illuminating the fiber end
   from the side. The laser can be operated in pulsed mode or in continuous mode; a
   laser can be classified as operating in either continuous or pulsed mode depending
10 on whether the power output is essentially continuous over time or whether its
   output takes the form of pulses of light on an appropriate time scale.
                      As disclosed herein, an electric arc treatment may be used as heat
   treatment for the optical fiber end face. An electric arc treatment has low power
15 consumption.
            Optical fibers having heat treated end faces according to the present
   disclosure show very good connection and disconnection characteristics. Inserting a
   bare end of an optical fiber in an optical fiber aligning element, making a connection
   to another optical fiber, and subsequently retracting the optical fiber end, can be
20 repeated tens of times (e.g. fifty times and more), without significant influence on
   the quality of the optical fiber connection.
            In some embodiments, the mechanical cleaving of the optical fiber end is a
   perpendicular cleave, i.e. the cleaved end face is perpendicular to the axis of the bare
   optical fiber.
25          In other embodiments, the mechanical cleaving is an angled cleaving. In this
   case the cleaved end face makes an angle larger than 0' with the plane perpendicular
   to the fiber axis. As a result, the fiber is no longer rotationally symmetric, and has
   slightly different lengths along a direction parallel to the axis of the optical fiber. In
   one embodiment, the angle is in the range from 5' to 50'. In another embodiment,
30 the angle is in the range from 5' to 15', and preferably in the range from 6' to 10',
   e.g. at 8'. As disclosed already above, an index matching material, for instance an
   index matching gel, can be used in a mechanical fiber connection to improve the
                                                   11

   coupling of light from one fiber end to the other one. The bare ends of the optical
   fibers usually contact each other only over a limited area of their end faces. The
   index matching gel can fill up the possible "gaps" between the end faces and thus
   reduce Fresnel reflections and increase the efficiency of the optical connection.
 5          Embodiments disclosed herein include a method for connecting a first and a
   second optical fiber connector, each connector having a bare end, the bare ends
   being mechanically cleaved and having heat treated end faces.
            There is also disclosed a method for connecting such first and second
   connectors via an adapter. The adapter may comprise an index matching material.
10          There is also disclosed a method for connecting such first and second
   connectors, wherein the first connector is a male (inserting) connector and the
   second one is a female (receiving) type optical fiber connector.
            Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure comprises a method for
   connecting a first optical fiber connector having a bare end, the bare end being
15 mechanically cleaved and having a heat treated end face as disclosed herein, to a
   ferruled optical fiber via a converter. The converter may comprise a special
   transition element that includes a short piece of optical fiber with a ferrule at one
   end while being ferrule-less at the other end. The first optical fiber is then connected
   to the ferrule-less end of the transition element in the converter, and the ferruled
20 optical fiber is connected to the ferrule in the converter. The ferrule-less end of the
   transition element may be mechanically cleaved and have a heat treated end face as
   outlined above.
            According to another aspect of the present disclosure, an optical fiber
   connector attached to an optical fiber is provided, whereby the optical fiber
25 connector comprises an outer housing e.g. a connector body; an inner part e.g. a
   fiber attachment element inserted in said connector body; and a thermoformable
   material attaching the optical fiber to said fiber attachment element, wherein said
   thermoformable material has a processing temperature; and wherein said connector
   body is made from one or more materials having a weakening temperature below
30 said processing temperature.
            According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a device is provided
   for attaching an optical fiber to an optical fiber connector, wherein the optical fiber
                                                  12

   connector comprises a fiber attachment element and a connector body, the device
   comprising means for receiving the optical fiber connector and the optical fiber;
   means for attaching the optical fiber to the fiber attachment element; and moving
   means for moving the fiber attachment element from an attachment position to a
 5 functional position, wherein the attachment position is for said attaching the optical
   fiber to the fiber attachment element, wherein the attachment position is provided
   outside of the connector body and wherein the functional position is provided inside
   the connector body.
            Further, the moving means may be adapted for moving the fiber attachment
10 element from a preliminary position to the attachment position, wherein the
   preliminary position is provided inside the connector body.
   In some embodiments, an optical fiber connector comprises a connector body and a
   fiber attachment element, to which an optical fiber is to be attached. In embodiments
15 of methods disclosed herein, the fiber attachment element can have at least two
   positions with respect to the connector body. One of these positions is the functional
   position, wherein the optical fiber connector is adapted for being connected to
   another optical device, such as another optical connector, or to any other optical
   device as known in the art, e.g. a light emitting device such as a LED, a converter to
20 connect the optical connector to another type of connector, etc. In the functional
   position, the optical fiber is attached to the fiber attachment element, and the
   connector body shields the fiber attachment element, and the attached optical fiber,
   from the outside environment, i.e. from contamination. Besides the functional
   position, the fiber attachment element may have an attachment position, different
25 from the functional position, with respect to the connector body, and a preliminary
   position, which is preferably different from the functional position but which in
   some embodiments may coincide with the functional position. In the preliminary
   position, the fiber attachment element is shielded by the connector body from the
   outside environment, i.e. from contamination; the optical fiber is not yet attached to
30 the fiber attachment element in this position.
            In the attachment position, the fiber attachment element is located outside of
   the connector body. This means that preferably a portion of the fiber attachment
                                                   13

   element is still coupled to the connector body, more preferably that this portion is
   still in the connector body, while another portion of the fiber attachment element, to
   which portion the optical fiber is to be attached, is outside of the connector body. To
   attach the optical fiber to the connector, the fiber attachment element may then be
 5 moved from the preliminary position to the attachment position, where the optical
   fiber is attached. After the attachment, the fiber attachment element is then moved
   again inside the connector body, to the functional position which, as discussed
   above, may be different from the preliminary position. The fiber attachment element
   may be locked in the connector body in the functional position, so that it cannot be
10 removed from the connector body; e.g. a snap fastener or another system as known
   in the art may be used to lock it. Further, the connector may comprise a "soft
   locking" system that locks the fiber attachment element so that it does not move
   (e.g. by gravity) out of the connector body in the preliminary position. The locking
   system is "soft", which means that by exerting a small force the fiber attachment
15 module may be moved out of the connector body. Further, the connector body may
   comprise a stop to retain the fiber attachment element when moving it to the
   attachment position.
            Embodiments of the connector as outlined above have numerous advantages.
   The fiber attachment element is most of the time shielded from the outside
20 environment, i.e. from contamination, by the connector body. If the optical fiber is
   attached to the connector by using a thermoformable material such as a heat shrink
   tube, only materials of the fiber attachment element have to be able to withstand a
   high temperature, such as e.g. 120 'C, that is required for the attachment, and
   different types of materials may be used for the connector body.
25           To attach the optical fiber to the fiber attachment element, several methods
   may be used. A preferred method is to apply a thermoformable material, e.g. a heat
   shrink material such as a heat shrink tape or, preferably, a heat shrink tube. Another
   preferred method is to apply a hot melt material, and to apply a heat shrink material
   such as a heat shrink tube over the applied hot melt material. Mechanical crimping,
30 using an adhesive, possibly a UV hardening adhesive, or other suitable attachment
   methods as known in the art may also be used.
             The connector is preferably pre-assembled in a connector cartridge, so that
                                                    14

   the fiber attachment element is located in the connector body, preferably in the
   preliminary position.
           Advantageously the attachment can easily be automated, e.g. in a portable
   device, even in a hand-held device.
 5         Embodiments disclosed herein may be used to attach an optical fiber to a
   fiber connector for ferrule-less systems, or for ferruled optical fiber systems. An
   advantage of using a heat shrink tube is that it may provide strain relief by bridging
   the gap between the coating diameter, of e.g. 1000 tm, and the cladding diameter, of
   e.g. 125 tm, if the transition from coated fiber to bare fiber occurs within the fiber
10 attachment element, which will usually be the case.
           Embodiments of the herein disclosed device and methods for attaching an
   optical fiber in an optical fiber connector can be any of reliable, convenient,
   contamination avoiding and inexpensive. Moreover, IPA or other alcohols need not
   be used to clean the fiber prior to heat activation. In some embodiments, the position
15 of the bare optical fiber, i.e. of the core and the cladding (see below under the
   "definitions" for the meaning of the core and of the cladding), is fixed with respect
   to the connector; this is called fiber fixation. "Fiber fixation" is not the same as
   "fiber termination"; in fiber termination the optical fiber is simply attached to the
   connector, e.g. by attaching the outside of the coating to the connector housing; in
20 that case, the glass part of the optical fiber, i.e. the cladding and the core, can still
   move, and is not fixed, with respect to the connector.
           Embodiments disclosed herein can utilize a dimensionally recoverable
   element to assist in optical fiber retention. A dimensionally recoverable element is
   an element of which the dimensional configuration may be made to change
25 substantially when subjected to heat treatment. Usually these elements recover
   towards an original shape from which they have previously been deformed, but the
   term "recoverable" as used herein, also includes an element which adopts a new
   configuration even if it has not been previously deformed. In embodiments of the
   present disclosure heat recoverable elements recover towards an original shape in an
30 encapsulating and retaining form, in particular in an optical fiber retaining form.
           An advantage of some embodiments is that fiber grow out is prevented. Fiber
   grow out is caused by the shrinking behavior of polymer jackets, i.e. the outer
                                                   15

   coating of optical fibers. Due to temperature differences (requirements for optical
   fibers are stability between -40'C and 70'C) fiber polymer jackets may shrink back,
   causing the core and the cladding, and usually also the inner coating (which may be
   an acrylic layer), to grow out of the polymer jacket.
 5         In certain embodiments, the heat-recoverable element is a sleeve (e.g., a
   tube) that can include a longitudinal seam or can be seamless. In certain
   embodiments, the sleeve has a dual wall construction including an outer, heat
   recoverable    annular layer, and an inner annular adhesive layer. In certain
   embodiments, the inner annular adhesive layer includes a hot-melt adhesive layer.
10
   Preferably, the adhesive provides for primary retention of the optical fiber within a
   connector. The heat recoverable sheath functions to contain the adhesive and to
   cause the adhesive to flow into void areas between the fiber attachment element and
   the optical fiber to ensure that effective adhesive contact is made with the bare glass
15 portion of the optical fiber, the coated portion of the optical fiber and the fiber
   attachment element. A relatively large amount of adhesive is used. For example, the
   process uses a heat shrink tube having an outer wall (i.e., layer) of heat recoverable
   material and in inner wall (i.e., layer) of adhesive in combination with a separate
   sleeve of adhesive that fits inside the inner wall to provide more adhesive for filling
20 voids. Alternatively, the inner wall can be made thicker to provide the additional
   volume of adhesive.
           In one embodiment, the sleeve is initially expanded from a normal,
   dimensionally stable diameter to a dimensionally heat unstable diameter that is
   larger than the normal diameter. The sleeve is shape-set to the dimensionally heat
25 unstable diameter. This typically occurs in a factory/manufacturing setting. The
   dimensionally heat unstable diameter is sized to allow the sleeve to be inserted over
   two components desired to be coupled together. After insertion over the two
   components, the sleeve is heated thereby causing the sleeve to shrink back toward
   the normal diameter such that the sleeve radially compresses against the two
30 components to secure the two components together. The adhesive layer is preferably
   heat activated during heating of the sleeve. In certain embodiments, the sleeve can
   be used to secure a coated optical fiber to a substrate such as an attachment member
                                                  16

   adapted to be secured within a connector body. In certain embodiments, the adhesive
   within the sleeve can bond directly to the substrate and the coated optical fiber, and
   the coated optical fiber can have a diameter of less than 300 microns. In certain
   embodiments, a bare glass portion of the coated fiber extends outwardly axially
 5 beyond an end of the sleeve. In certain embodiments, the sleeve can be used to
   anchor/axially fix a coating portion of an optical fiber to a bare glass portion of the
   optical fiber. In certain embodiments, the adhesive within the sleeve can bond
   directly to the coating portion and the bare glass portion of the optical fiber, and the
   bare glass portion of the optical fiber can extend outwardly axially beyond an end of
10 the sleeve. The coating portion can have a diameter less than 300 microns.
           An advantageous effect of the above is that even if there would be
   contamination present between the fiber and the heat-recoverable element, such as
   dust and dirt particles, the attachment of the fiber to the fiber attachment element
   would still be sufficient resulting in good optical properties. In addition,
15 embodiments of the present disclosure may prevent modal noise caused by
   microbends, which are quite often a problem for mechanical crimping systems.
           Another aspect of the present disclosure involves a method for attaching an
   optical fiber in an optical fiber connector. In an embodiment, the optical fiber
   connector comprises a fiber attachment element, a thermoformable material such as
20 a heat-recoverable     element surrounding said fiber attachment element and a
   connector body surrounding said thermoformable material,               and the method
   comprises the steps of inserting the optical fiber into the optical fiber connector; and
   activating the thermoformable material, thus attaching the optical fiber to the fiber
   attachment element.
25         Activating the thermoformable material may be done e.g. by heating it. The
   thermoformable material may be a heat shrink material. The heat shrink material
   may be a heat shrink tube. It may be a heat shrink tape.
           In one embodiment of a method to attach the optical fiber to the fiber
   attachment element, a thermoformable material such as a heat-recoverable element
30 is used, e.g. a heat shrink material such as a heat shrink tape or, preferably, a heat
   shrink sleeve or a heat shrink tube. Another preferred method is to use a hot melt
   material as well as a heat shrink material such as a heat shrink tube. The hot melt
                                                  17

   material may be on the inner surface of the heat shrink sleeve or tube, and/or as a
   separate liner of the heat shrink sleeve or tube.
           A further aspect of the present disclosure provides fiber optic connectors
   comprising a connector body having an interface end; and an optical fiber that is
 5 affixed within the connector body by at least one component retained by adhesive,
   the optical fiber having an unsupported end portion that is accessible at the interface
   end of the connector body, wherein the fiber optic connector is ferrule-less.
   Preferably the unsupported end portion is a bare glass portion.
           In some embodiments the optical fiber is adhesively affixed to an attachment
10 element that is connected to the connector body. In other embodiments the optical
   fiber includes a first portion including a primary coating and a second portion not
   including a primary coating, wherein the unsupported end portion of the optical fiber
   is formed by the second portion, and wherein the first and second portions are
   adhesively affixed to the attachment element by an adhesive. Preferably the second
15 portion of the optical fiber includes a signal conveyance structure including a core
   and a cladding, wherein the first portion of the optical fiber includes the signal
   conveyance structure covered by the primary and secondary coating, and wherein
   the adhesive limits axial movement between the signal conveyance structure and the
   secondary coating.
20         In alternative embodiments a sleeve covers the adhesive, and preferably the
   sleeve is a heat recoverable sleeve, and wherein the adhesive is heat activated.
           In some embodiments the fiber optic connector has a first configuration
   wherein the unsupported end portion is enclosed within the connector body to
   protect an end face of the unsupported end portion from contamination, and a second
25 configuration wherein the end face of the unsupported end portion can be accessed
   at the interface end of the connector body to allow for optical connection to another
   optical fiber.
           Preferably an adhesive affixes the optical fiber within the connector body,
   and a sleeve surrounds the adhesive and the optical fiber. More specifically the
30 sleeve can be a heat recoverable sleeve, and the adhesive is preferably heat
   activated. In some embodiments, the sleeve surrounds an attachment element that is
   adhesively bonded to the optical fiber.
                                                  18

            The present disclosure also provides a device and method for micro
   assembling, using a heat recoverable material, such as a heat shrink sleeve. The heat
   recoverable material may e.g. be used to assemble an optical fiber and an element in
   an optical fiber connector.
 5          Embodiments of the herein disclosed devices and methods for assembling
   can be any of reliable, convenient, contamination avoiding and inexpensive. In some
   embodiments, a heat recoverable material is used for assembling elements.
   Assembly may be done using a heat recoverable material. Heat may then be applied
   to the heat recoverable material is such a way, as discussed below, that entrapped air
10 is avoided.
            It is an aspect of the present disclosure to provide a device for assembly of
   parts and for transferring heat to a heat recoverable material, the device comprising a
   first pre-installed or pre-assembled element and adapted to receive a second element
   to be assembled, further comprising heat distributing means for transferring heat to
15 said heat recoverable material, wherein said heat distributing means has a cavity for
   receiving the heat recoverable material and a heat conducting portion surrounding
   said heat recoverable material, whereby the device is adapted to shrink the heat
   recoverable material onto the second element and, wherein said heat distributing
   means comprises a localized heating portion with a predefined physical relationship
20 between the localized heating portion and the heat recoverable material.
            The first pre-installed or pre-assembled element (adapted to receive a second
   element to be assembled) can be, for example a micro-assembled arrangement of
   components, e.g. a connector barrel, a connector housing, a fiber attachment
   element, whereby the first pre-installed or pre-assembled element is preferably
25 adapted to include the heat recoverable material attached in such a way that heat
   recovery of the heat recoverable material attaches the pre-installed or pre-assembled
   element to the second element. In particular the pre-installed or pre-assembled
   element and the second element can optionally relate to a ferruless optical fiber
   connection.
30          A fiber optic connector is disclosed herein comprising:
                       -a connector body having an interface end; and
                       -an optical fiber that is affixed within the connector body by a heat
                                                     19

   recovered material,
                       wherein the fiber optic connector is ferrule-less, further comprising
   heat distributing means for transferring heat to a heat recoverable material, wherein
   said heat distributing means has a cavity receiving the heat recovered material and a
 5 heat conducting portion surrounding said heat recovered material.
            An advantage of some embodiments is that fiber grow out is prevented. Fiber
   grow out is caused by the shrinking behavior of polymer jackets, i.e. the outer
   coating of optical fibers. Due to temperature differences (requirements for optical
   fibers are stability between -40'C and 70'C) fiber polymer jackets may shrink back,
10 causing the core and the cladding, and usually also the inner coating (which may be
   an acrylic layer), to grow out of the polymer jacket. In certain embodiments, the
   heat-recoverable element is a sleeve (e.g., a tube) that can include a longitudinal
   seam or can be seamless. In certain embodiments, the sleeve has a dual wall
   construction including an outer, heat recoverable annular layer, and an inner annular
15 adhesive layer. In certain embodiments, the inner annular adhesive layer includes a
   hot-melt adhesive layer.
            Preferably, the adhesive provides for primary retention of the optical fiber
   within a connector. The heat recoverable sheath functions to contain the adhesive
   and to cause the adhesive to flow into void areas between the fiber attachment
20 element and the optical fiber to ensure that effective adhesive contact is made with
   the bare glass portion of the optical fiber, the coated portion of the optical fiber and
   the fiber attachment element. A relatively large amount of adhesive is used. For
   example, the process uses a heat shrink tube having an outer wall (i.e., layer) of heat
   recoverable material and in inner wall (i.e., layer) of adhesive in combination with a
25 separate sleeve of adhesive that fits inside the inner wall to provide more adhesive
   for filling voids. Alternatively, the inner wall can be made thicker to provide the
   additional volume of adhesive.
            In one embodiment, the sleeve is initially expanded from a normal,
   dimensionally stable diameter to a dimensionally heat unstable diameter that is
30 larger than the normal diameter. The sleeve is shape-set to the dimensionally heat
   unstable diameter. This typically occurs in a factory/manufacturing setting. The
   dimensionally heat unstable diameter is sized to allow the sleeve to be inserted over
                                                  20

   two components desired to be coupled together. After insertion over the two
   components, the sleeve is heated thereby causing the sleeve to shrink back toward
   the normal diameter such that the sleeve radially compresses against the two
   components to secure the two components together. The adhesive layer is preferably
 5 heat activated during heating of the sleeve. In certain embodiments, the sleeve can
   be used to secure a coated optical fiber to a substrate such as an attachment member
   adapted to be secured within a connector body. In certain embodiments, the adhesive
   within the sleeve can bond directly to the substrate and the coated optical fiber, and
   the coated optical fiber can have a diameter of less than 300 microns. In certain
10 embodiments, a bare glass portion of the coated fiber extends outwardly axially
   beyond an end of the sleeve. In certain embodiments, the sleeve can be used to
   anchor/axially fix a coating portion of an optical fiber to a bare glass portion of the
   optical fiber. In certain embodiments, the adhesive within the sleeve can bond
   directly to the coating portion and the bare glass portion of the optical fiber, and the
15 bare glass portion of the optical fiber can extend outwardly axially beyond an end of
   the sleeve. The coating portion can have a diameter less than 300 microns.
           In some embodiments, an optical fiber connector is provided wherein a heat
   recoverable material, such as a heat shrink sleeve, preferably a heat shrink tube, is
   used inside the optical fiber connector. The heat recoverable material may be used to
20 assemble an optical fiber and a fiber attachment element inside the optical fiber
   connector. The purpose of the attachment may be to fix the position of the optical
   fiber with respect to the connector housing. That the fiber attachment element, and
   the heat recoverable material, are inside the optical fiber connector means that
   another part of the optical fiber connector, e.g. a connector body, surrounds the fiber
25 attachment element. To heat the heat recoverable material, inside the optical fiber
   connector, and to make a reliable attachment, without air entrapped in the heat
   recoverable material, a heat distributor may be used, that has a heat conducting
   portion surrounding the heat recoverable material. The optical fiber connector may
   comprise the fiber attachment element; it may comprise the heat recoverable
30 material. The heat conducting portion may have a localized heating portion to which
   heat from a heat source is applied. The connector body may have a location, e.g. an
   opening that allows the heat source to heat the localized heating portion. The heat
                                                  21

   source may supply heat by radiation (e.g. by infrared radiation) and/or by
   convection. Preferably a heater, e.g. an electrical resistance heater, is used. The heat
   conducting portion may also be electrically conducting such that by passing a
   current from a power source through the heat conducting portion, heat is generated
 5 in the heat conducting portion. To assemble the parts, an optical fiber is inserted in
   the connector, into the heat shrink tube. The heat shrink tube surrounds the optical
   fiber and the fiber attachment element. Heat is supplied to the localized heating
   portion by a heater; preferably the heater makes physical contact with the localized
   heating portion of the heat conducting portion. The heat, supplied to the localized
10 heating portion, is distributed by conduction along the heat conducting portion,
   which may be a tubular metal part. The heat is transferred from the heat conducting
   portion to the heat recoverable material which shrinks, starting at the localized
   heating portion, where the heat is supplied, and then further along the heat
   conducting portion, so that the optical fiber is attached to the fiber attachment
15 element. The heat recoverable material starts to shrink at a known location, adjacent
   to the localized heating portion, so that air inside the heat recoverable material is
   pushed out towards the end or ends of the heat recoverable material. A heat front
   propagates in the heat conducting portion, and a shrink front propagates in the heat
   recoverable material. The dimensions and the thermal properties of the heat
20 conducting portion, and the dimensions and the physical properties of the heat
   recoverable material, are preferably such that the propagation of the heat front in the
   heat conducting portion follows the propagation of the shrink front in the heat
   recoverable material. Air will then not be entrapped during the shrinking process.
            An additional advantage of some embodiments is that a pre-assembly or pre
25 installment of the parts and of the heat recoverable material may be made under
   controlled conditions, e.g. in factory conditions, thus avoiding contamination. In the
   field, the optical fiber may then be inserted in the optical fiber connector, and all that
   has to be done to perform the micro-assembly is to supply heat to the heat
   recoverable material.
30          Moreover, the parts that are assembled may be very small (heat shrink tubes
   with an external diameter, before shrinking, of about 1 mm are known). As
   discussed above, in some embodiments heat supply is very easy and convenient,
                                                   22

   because heat may be supplied to a localized heating portion, e.g. by physical contact
   with a heater. A further advantage is that materials may be used in the connector that
   do not resist to the high temperatures that are required to process the heat
   recoverable material, since the heat is applied locally, to the localized heating
 5 portion, and is guided to the inside of the optical fiber connector by the heat
   distributor. Heat may be distributed and transferred to the heat recoverable material
   in a controlled way.
           An end of the heat recoverable material may be positioned at the localized
   heating portion of the heat distributor; the center of the heat recoverable material
10 may be positioned at the localized heating portion; a portion of the heat recoverable
   material between an end and its center may be positioned at the localized heating
   portion.
            The heat conducting portion of the heat distributor may have a cavity for the
   heat recoverable material. In a preferred embodiment, the heat conducting portion
15 has a cylindrical shape. The heat conducting portion may have a tubular shape. It
   may also have a conical shape. In general, it is preferred that the shape of the heat
   conducting portion is such as to allow heat transfer to a heat shrink tube in the cavity
   over the whole circumference of the heat shrink tube and over its complete length; a
   heat conducting portion that has a cylindrical shape, or a conical shape, or a tubular
20 shape, fulfills these requirements.
            The heat recoverable material is preferably a heat shrink sleeve (that does not
   necessarily have the same diameter over its length. The heat recoverable material
   may be a heat shrink tube.
           Embodiments of a device in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein
25 may be used in optical fiber connectors. Another application is a SMOUV sleeve
   (SMOUV is a Trade Mark of TE Connectivity). SMOUV sleeves may be used for
   fiber-optic fusion splices; they may be applied around the fused area, to protect the
   fused area and the zones adjacent to the fused area. A SMOUV sleeve comprises a
   heat-shrinkable tube and a rod for reinforcing the splice.
30         In some embodiments, the device may further comprise a pre-alignment
   element for pre-aligning the optical fiber that is to be inserted. The pre-alignment
   element may include a conical opening, into which the bare end of the optical fiber
                                                  23

   is inserted before reaching the alignment portion.
            Embodiments disclosed herein provide an alternative device and method for
   evacuating debris from an optical fiber e.g. when the debris is generated by an
   operation on the optical fiber, such as a stripping operation, a cleaning operation, a
 5 cleaving operation. Embodiments of the herein disclosed devices and methods for
   evacuating debris from an optical fiber are reliable and convenient. Further, the
   disclosed device or method is particularly suitable to be integrated into an automated
   tool. Preferably, the debris is caught and evacuated in such a way that the device and
   its internal mechanisms are not soiled by the debris, or that soiling is substantially
10 reduced, which is especially advantageous in an automated tool.
            In one embodiment there is provided a device for evacuating debris from an
   optical fiber, the device comprising a guiding element for guiding a tape wherein
   said device is adapted to fold the tape, to cover the fiber and to trap the debris in the
   tape, thus forming a one-tape sandwich. The debris is thus evacuated, in the
15 sandwich, in a reliable and convenient way. In an alternative embodiment, the
   device can further comprises a second disposable tape and a second guiding means,
   wherein the device is adapted to move the first and second tape to cover th fiber and
   to trap the debris between the first and second tape in the form of a two-tape
   sandwich. According to one aspect of the present disclosure, the device comprises a
20 tape cartridge, comprising, besides one or two guiding elements respectively one or
   two tapes. Preferably, the tape cartridge can easily be exchanged and the tape is
   disposable. The tape is designed for cheapness and short-term convenience and
   preferably intended for single use. According to another aspect, the device includes,
   besides the guiding elements, an element to receive a tape cartridge. According to
25 yet another aspect, the device functions without a tape cartridge; the tapes may e.g.
   be mounted in the device as tape rollers.
            In these embodiments, the debris is trapped by at least one tape, and then
   immediately caught between two mating sides of one tape or by two tapes, that form
   a sandwich, so that the debris is trapped safely between the tape or tapes in the
30 sandwich and cannot soil the device. The guiding element(s) that guide the tape(s)
   can be part of a tape cartridge, or they can be part of a device that is adapted to
   receive a tape cartridge, or they can be part of a device that functions without a tape
                                                  24

   cartridge, or some guiding elements can be part of a device that is adapted to receive
   a tape cartridge while other guiding elements are part of the tape cartridge itself.
           In some embodiments, the device for evacuating debris from the optical fiber
   includes a driving element for driving a tape. The driving element may be adapted
 5 for evacuating the tape. Guiding element(s) for the tape may be provided in the
   device and/or in a tape cartridge configured to co-operate with the device. The
   driving element and/or the guiding element(s) may be adapted for driving the tape,
   and the guiding elements for guiding and folding the tape, for trapping the debris
   between two mating sides of the tape, and for sandwiching the sides of the tape upon
10 trapping the debris.
           In other embodiments, the device for evacuating debris from the optical fiber
   includes a first driving element for driving a first tape and a second driving element
   for driving a second tape. The first and the second driving element may be adapted
   for evacuating the first and the second tape. Guiding elements for the first and for
15 the second tape may be provided in the device and/or in a tape cartridge configured
   to co-operate with the device. The driving elements and/or the guiding elements may
   be adapted for driving the first and the second tape, and the guiding elements for
   guiding the first and the second tape, for trapping the debris between the first and the
   second tape, and for sandwiching the first and the second tape upon trapping the
20 debris.
           The device for evacuating debris from the optical fiber may include one or
   more systems to perform an operation that generates debris from the optical fiber.
   The device may include a system for performing debris generating operation such as
   a stripping operation, and/or a system for performing a cleaning operation, and/or a
25 system for performing a cleaving operation.
           In some embodiments, the device for evacuating debris from the optical fiber
   includes at least one heater for heating the optical fiber, and a driving element for
   driving a tape for contacting the optical fiber such that the tape protects the heater
   from contacting the optical fiber, wherein the driving element is adapted for
30 evacuating the tape and the debris collected by the tape.
           Alternative devices and/or methods are also provided for inserting an optical
   fiber in equipment for optical fiber processing, whereby the equipment is adapted to
                                                  25

   perform an operation on the optical fiber, such as a stripping operation, a cleaning
   operation, or a cleaving operation.
           An advantage of embodiments disclosed herein can be that the optical fiber
   is guided in a protected manner into the equipment for optical fiber processing by
 5 using a tape, whereby the optical fiber is sandwiched between the tape with the
   movement of the tape. Another advantage of embodiments can be that the optical
   fiber can be pre-aligned before processing. As a result one or more deficiencies and
   problems associated with the prior art devices and methods are eliminated or
   reduced by the devices and methods disclosed herein.
10         Embodiments of the herein disclosed devices and methods for inserting an
   optical fiber in equipment for optical fiber processing are reliable and convenient.
   Further, the disclosed device or method is particularly suitable to be integrated into
   an automated tool. Preferably, the optical fiber is inserted in such a way that the
   equipment and its internal mechanisms can apply the operations described in a
15 correct way as a result of a guiding operation applied on the optical fiber by using
   tape, which is especially advantageous in an automated tool.
           In one embodiment disclosed herein a device for inserting an optical fiber is
   provided, wherein the optical fiber has a fiber axis, in an equipment for optical fiber
   processing, the device comprising guiding means, whereby the device is adapted to
20 move a tape, wherein said guiding means are adapted to draw the tape to feed the
   optical fiber with the tape and to sandwich the optical fiber in the tape with the
   movement of the tape. The optical fiber is thus guided and pre-aligned, by a drawing
   motion, using the tape in the form of a tape sandwich, in a reliable and convenient
   way. Preferably the drawing motion is provided by a difference between the
25 movement velocity of the tape and an insertion velocity of the fiber. More
   specifically the movement speed of the tape is higher than the insertion speed of the
   fiber which typically is between 5 to 20 mm/s more specifically 10 mm/s. In
   preferred embodiments the movement speed of the tape is 5-10% higher than the
   insertion velocity of the optical fiber.
30         Advantageously as a result of the above described drawing motion the tape
   guides the optical fiber and the optical fiber is automatically aligned, e.g.
   straightened. As a result, when performing an optical fiber processing operation the
                                                 26

   optical fiber is in a correct position. This straightening will improve the quality of
   the operation performed resulting in optical fiber with a better performance.
           In an alternative embodiment, the device can further comprise a second
   guiding means and whereby the device is adapted to move a second tape, wherein
 5 said first and second guiding means are adapted to draw the tape to feed the optical
   fiber between the first and second tapes and to sandwich the optical fiber between
   the first and second tapes with the movement of the first and second tapes.
   According to one aspect of the disclosure, the device comprises a tape cartridge
   comprising, besides one or two guiding elements respectively one or two tapes.
10 Preferably, the tape cartridge can easily be exchanged and the tape is disposable.
   The tape is designed for cheapness and short-term convenience and preferably
   intended for single use. According to another aspect, the device includes, besides the
   guiding elements, an element to receive a tape cartridge. According to yet another
   aspect, the device functions without a tape cartridge; the tapes may e.g. be mounted
15 in the device as tape rollers.
           In some embodiments, the device for inserting an optical fiber includes a
   driving element for driving a tape. The driving element may be adapted for
   evacuating the tape. Guiding element(s) for the tape may be provided in the device
   and/or in a tape cartridge configured to co-operate with the device. The driving
20 element and/or the guiding element(s) may be adapted for driving the tape, and the
   guiding elements for guiding and folding the tape.
           The device for inserting an optical fiber may include one or more systems to
   perform an operation that generates debris from the optical fiber. The device may
   include a system for performing debris generating operation such as a stripping
25 operation, and/or a system for performing a cleaning operation, and/or a system for
   performing a cleaving operation.
           A processing device is also disclosed for removing a coating from a coated
   optical fiber, the coated optical fiber having a cladding, a core and an axis, the
   cladding surrounding the core and the coating surrounding the cladding, the device
30 comprising means for heating the coated optical fiber while clamping the coated
   optical fiber, driving means for driving protective means to cover the coated optical
   fiber and be adapted for being inserted between the coated optical fiber and the
                                                  27

   means for heating, and moving means for performing a relative movement, in an
   axial direction of the optical fiber axis, of the means for heating with respect to the
   cladding while the means for heating are clamping the coated optical fiber and while
   the protective means, which covers the coated optical fiber, is inserted between the
 5 coated optical fiber and the means for heating, thus removing the coating from the
   coated optical fiber.
           Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a processing device for
   removing a coating from a coated optical fiber, the coated optical fiber having a
   cladding, a core and an axis, the cladding surrounding the core and the coating
10 surrounding the cladding, the device comprising means for heating the coated
   optical fiber while clamping the coated optical fiber, driving means for driving
   protective means to cover the coated optical fiber and be adapted for being inserted
   between the coated optical fiber and the means for heating, and moving means for
   performing a relative movement, in a perpendicular direction of the optical fiber
15 axis, of the means for heating with respect to the cladding while the means for
   heating are clamping the coated optical fiber while the protective means, which
   covers the coated optical fiber, is inserted between the coated optical fiber and the
   means for heating, thus removing the coating from the coated optical fiber.
           The fiber tensile strength, can be an important parameter to consider when
20 removing a coating from a coated optical fiber, because the higher a tensile strength
   of the stripped fiber, the stronger the fiber is and hence the better quality of the
   resulting fiber. Another parameter which can thus be of importance is the speed of
   the relative movement of the fiber as it is being moved while stripping. With respect
   to fiber strength preferably the relative movement has a speed in the range of 10 to
25 20 mm/s. This relatively high speed can have a beneficial influence in the surface
   generated glass defects.
           Preferably the device further comprises means for inserting an incision in the
   coating of the optical fiber. The means for making an incision in the coating of the
   optical fiber can for instance be a knife with a profiled blade or a heated protruding
30 element or a profiled heated blade.
           In embodiments, the driving means for driving the protective means to cover
   the coated optical fiber further can be adapted for being inserted between the coated
                                                   28

   optical fiber and the heating means and/or the means for making an incision in the
   optical fiber. Preferably both the heating means and the means for making an
   incision in the optical fiber are protected from the coated optical fiber. In other
   embodiments the means for making an incision in the coating of the optical fiber can
 5 be retractable. As a result, the optical fiber is stripped by performing a relative
   movement of the means for heating with respect to the cladding while the means for
   heating are clamping the coated optical fiber.
           In alternative embodiments, wherein the means for making an incision is not
   retractable, the optical fiber is stripped by performing a relative movement of the
10 means for making an incision with respect to the optical fiber while the means for
   making an incision are clamping the coated optical fiber. As a result the means for
   making an incision scrapes the coating of the coated optical fiber. Preferably, the
   coated optical fiber is heated by the heating means before performing the relative
   movement.
15         In other embodiments, the processing device for removing a coating from an
   optical fiber further comprises cleaning means for cleaning a stripped portion of said
   optical fiber, whereby said cleaning means can be retractable or pivotable.
   Preferably, the stripped portion of the optical fiber is cleaned by performing a
   relative movement of the cleaning means with respect to the stripped optical fiber
20 while the means for heating or the means for making an incision are clamping the
   coated optical fiber and the means for cleaning are clamping the stripped portion of
   the optical fiber.
           The means to protect the optical fiber processing tools, e.g. stripping clamps,
   knives, heated profiled blades, cleaning means, etc. or protective means prevent at
25 least some of the optical fiber processing tools from directly contacting the coating
   of the optical fiber. In this way, contamination of the optical fiber processing tools
   by residues of the coating is avoided. In a preferred embodiment, tape is used as
   protective means. In case two optical fiber processing tools are used on each side of
   the optical fiber, for instance two stripping clamps are used; a single or optionally
30 two tapes may be used, each stripping clamp being protected by a tape. In another
   embodiment, a single tape is used, wrapped around the fiber when it is inserted
   between the clamps, so that it protects both stripping clamps. In the remainder of
                                                 29

   this description, mostly the term tape will be used as means to protect the stripping
   clamps. It is however to be understood that instead of tape other kinds of protective
   means may be used as well. Another kind of protective means is a thin-walled
   plastic tube element. The tube element may be placed between the clamps and
 5 surrounding the optical fiber and is allowed to move along the fiber together with
   the stripping device. In this way the clamps are not contaminated and the tube can be
   used to capture and evacuate the stripped coating of the fiber. Preferably, for every
   stripping step a new tube is used.
            Advantageously the stripping clamp, which may e.g. comprise a flat plate,
10 can open symmetrically to facilitate the entry of the fiber between the clamps, and in
   addition a guiding means can be provided. Especially, the guiding means can be
   provided for guiding the fiber end in the stripping clamps in such way that no
   contact between the fiber end and the tape is established. The processing device then
   preferably operates as follows. The coated optical fiber is clamped and heated while
15 the heated plates are protected by tape from making contact with the coated optical
   fiber. In a next step, the clamps are translated along the fiber axis away from the
   fixed clamps over a predefined distance and as a result the heated coating breaks at
   the border between the heated and the non-heated portions. It is then removed from
   the optical fiber by means of the friction force between the clamp and the coating.
20 The captured coating of the optical fiber can optionally be evacuated by the tape,
   while the non-heated portion and the core and cladding are held in place. Preferably,
   before or while the coated optical fiber is clamped, an incision is made on the
   coating of the optical fiber at a predefined distance.
            As a result the brittle glass element of the optical fiber has no chance to get
25 damaged in any way and by using tape to protect the clamp from being
   contaminated by the heated coating, resulting in a higher life time of the device. In
   addition the debris resulting from the stripping is transported away. The latter results
   in a highly reliable device and enables the integration of the device in an automated
   tool which is able to apply additional processing steps to the optical fiber, such as:
30 cleaving, cleaning, fiber end treatment, attaching a connector, inspecting a processed
   fiber, etc.
            Another preferred embodiment of the present disclosure provides a stripping
                                                  30

   device for removing a coating from a coated optical fiber, the coated optical fiber
   having a coating, the device comprising a clamp including two flat plates which can
   be heated, retractable means to make an incision and tape to protect the clamp
   and/or the means for making an incision. Advantageously the clamp can open
 5 symmetrically to facilitate the entry of the fiber into the clamp. The device then
   preferably operates as follows. The retractable knives are configured to make, next
   to the flat plates, an incision in the fiber, as far as the cladding. After performing this
   incision, the means can be retracted. The coated optical fiber is clamped and heated
   while the heated plates are protected from making contact with the coated optical
10 fiber. Performing an incision may occur before or during the heating. The clamped
   coating of the optical fiber is then moved, while the non-heated portion and the core
   and cladding are held in place. The coating breaks at the location of the incision and
   is removed from the optical fiber by means of the friction force between the clamp
   and the coating. When the means for making an incision are not retracted, the
15 coating of the optical fiber is clamped and heated. The means for making an incision
   scrapes the heated coating of the optical, while the non-heated portion and the core
   and cladding are held in place.
           Before the fiber is entered in the stripping clamps, in another embodiment
   guiding means can be provided for guiding the fiber end in the stripping clamps in
20 such way that no contact between the fiber end and tape is established. For instance
   by using movable clamps in between the fixed clamps and the stripping clamps.
           After the fiber enters the stripping clamp, stripping of the fiber, using
   retractable means for making an incision, may be performed in four steps as follows.
   In a first step an incision can be made in the coating but not as far as the cladding,
25 by for instance retractable knives or heated profiled blades and in a next step the
   clamps, which are protected from the fiber by tape, are heated, e.g. up to 120 'C, the
   clamps are then translated along the fiber axis away from the fixed clamps over a
   predefined distance and as a result the coating breaks at the location of the incision
   and is removed from the optical fiber by means of the friction force between the
30 heated clamp and the coating. Especially, the heaters will exercise a uniform shear
   force on the fiber resulting in a large strip length. In a third step, no incision is made
   in the fiber by the retractable knives, but the clamps and protective means are heated
                                                     31

   in order to strip the remaining primary coating of the fiber having a thickness
   between 200-300 tm. In an optional final step, again no incision is made but the
   clamps and tape are heated in order to strip any residues on the cladding.
           After the fiber enters the stripping clamp, stripping of the fiber, using non
 5 retractable means for making an incision, may be performed in four steps as follows.
   In a first step an incision can be made in the secondary coating but not as far as the
   cladding, by for instance knives or heated profiled blades and in a next step the
   clamps are heated, e.g. up to 120 'C. Both means for making an incision and heated
   clamps can be protected from the fiber by tape. The heated clamps transfer heat to
10 the coating of the fiber, which is softened and weakened and as the means for
   making an incision, which are not retracted, are translated along the fiber axis away
   from the fixed clamps over a predefined distance, the means for making an incision
   scrape the softened coating from the location of the incision and is removed from the
   optical fiber by means of the friction force between the means for making an
15 incision and the coating. The translation of the means for making an incision along
   the fiber peels the coating from the fiber and pushes it off the surface. Especially,
   the means for making an incision will exercise a uniform shear force on the fiber
   resulting in a large strip length. In a third step, no incision is made in the fiber, but
   the clamps and protective means can be heated in order to strip the remaining
20 primary coating of the fiber having a thickness between 200-300 pLm. In an optional
   final step, again no incision is made but the clamps and tape are heated in order to
   strip any residues on the cladding.
           If the fiber has an outer and an inner coating, the outer coating might be
   removed in a first stripping step and the inner coating in a second stripping step.
25 After the first stripping step, the stripping clamps are opened, preferably new
   protective means, e.g. new tape, is dispensed, and the stripping clamps move back to
   the position where they can heat the inner coating that is to be removed. The
   stripping clamps are closed, and are moved again to remove the inner coating.
   Finally, a third heating and moving step may be performed to remove any debris that
30 might still be present on the cladding of the optical fiber, thus performing a cleaning
   operation on the stripped optical fiber.
            The fiber may only have an inner coating. An example of this is the special
                                                   32

   case of a reinforced optical fiber that comprises Kevlar between the outer and the
   inner coating. In this case, the outer coating and the Kevlar layer may be removed in
   a pre-treatment step, possibly by another device. The inner coating is then removed
   in the first stripping step discussed above, while the last stripping step will then be
 5 an "empty" step. An advantage of this method is that different kinds of fibers are
   treated in the same way, so that the operator does not have to enter information in
   the stripping device on the kind of fiber.
            Alternatively, the stripping device may comprise a sensor that detects the
   kind of fiber that is to be stripped.
10          As a result, any optical fiber having a primary or secondary coating or both
   can be stripped. In addition, the operator will not have to specify any settings of the
   stripping device resulting in stripping of the optical fiber independent of the person
   operating the device. The latter results in a higher work efficiency and facilitates the
   handling of the device.
15          Further, in one embodiment of the device, two different types of tape can be
   used, an adhesive tape and a non-adhesive tape. One side of the adhesive tape is
   sticky, while the other side is non-sticky. The sticky side faces the coated optical
   fiber. The stripping device comprises driving means for driving the tapes. After the
   coating is removed from the fiber, the removed coating is sandwiched between the
20 adhesive tape and the non-adhesive tape, and transported away from the stripping
   clamps by the driving means. The tapes can further be used to evacuate any debris
   resulting from stripping the optical fiber. This is a very convenient way to evacuate
   the coating debris. It is also safe: no debris remains near the stripping clamps, where
   it could damage the device in operation. Advantageously, a tape cartridge can be
25 used which may contain three rollers that can be driven: a roller with adhesive tape,
   a roller with non-adhesive tape and a roller that can wind up the sandwich of the
   adhesive and the non-adhesive tape.
            However, when the fiber is inserted between two layers of tape, the point of
   the fiber end can be sharp and it can penetrate the tape instead of sliding over it or
30 the fiber can be bended due to plastic deformation of the buffer prior to insertion in
   the tool. Advantageously, in another embodiment of the device, the fiber can be
   supported during insertion between the tapes by using a guiding element, such as a
                                                   33

   movable clamp. The movable clamp can give guidance to the fiber end and can
   move in between the fixed clamp and the stripping clamp.
           In some embodiments, a device in accordance with the present disclosure
   comprises a plurality of stations, wherein in each station one or more of these
 5 processing steps are performed. In an embodiment, stripping and cleaning are
   performed in the same station. In one embodiment, the tensile test and the cleaving
   operation are performed in the same station.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10         Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the
   drawings, wherein:
   Fig. 1 is a schematic representation of a device for attaching a connector to an
   optical fiber;
15 Fig. 2 shows the inside of a device according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   Figure 3 illustrates a tool in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure;
   Figures 4-25 show a sequence of operating steps/stages implemented by the tool of
   Figure 3 for pre-processing and connectorizing an optical fiber;
20 Figure 26 illustrates an embodiment of a fiber attachment element;
   Figure 27 illustrates an enlarged view of a pre-alignment device of a connector;
   Figures 28 to 30 illustrate embodiments of a fiber attachment element;
   Figure 31 illustrates an embodiment of an optical fiber connector attached to an
   optical fiber;
25 Figs. 32a-32c schematically illustrate a connector body comprising a fiber
   attachment element, used with a whole range of coatings for different types of
   optical fibers;
   Fig. 33 illustrates an embodiment of a connector body comprising a fiber attachment
   element;
30 Figs. 34a and 34c show cross-sections of an embodiment of a connector body,
   comprising a first portion of the fiber attachment element before activation of the
   heat shrink material;
                                                  34

   Figs. 34b and 34d show cross-sections of an embodiment of a connector body
   comprising a second portion of the fiber attachment element before activation of the
   heat shrink material;
   Figs. 35a and 35c show cross-sections of an embodiment of a connector body
 5 comprising a first portion of the fiber attachment element after activation of the heat
   shrink material;
   Figs. 35b and 35d show cross-sections of an embodiment of a connector body
   comprising a second portion of the fiber attachment element after activation of the
   heat shrink material;
10 Figs. 36a to 36e schematically illustrate subsequent stages wherein heat is
   transferred by a device to a heat recoverable material;
   Fig. 37 illustrates an embodiment of an optical fiber connector;
   Fig. 38a-38b illustrates a one tape arrangement for use with a station where the
   optical fiber comprises or generates debris;
15 Fig. 39 schematically illustrates a device that includes a tape cartridge;
   Figs. 40a and 40b illustrate a stripping operation that is adapted to trap and evacuate
   debris;
   Figs. 41 a and 41b schematically illustrate the operation of a stripping device;
   Fig. 42 schematically illustrates the operation of an embodiment of a stripping
20 device;
   Figs. 43a and 43b schematically illustrate a stripping blade according to a preferred
   embodiment;
   Figs. 44a and 44b respectively schematically illustrate a profiled stripping blade
   compared to a straight stripping blade according to embodiments of the invention.
25 Fig. 45a illustrates perpendicular tape transport and Fig. 45b axial tape transport
   according to embodiments of the disclosure;
   Figs. 46a to 46e illustrate a stripping operation, with axial tape transport, according
   to an embodiment;
   Fig. 47a to 47e illustrate a stripping operation, with axial tape transport, according to
30 an embodiment;
   Fig. 48 shows an embodiment of a tape cartridge;
   Figs. 49a-49c illustrate embodiments of the present disclosure wherein a single tape
                                                   35

   is used;
   Fig. 50 shows an embodiment of a cam plate;
   Fig. 51 and Fig. 52 show possible arrangements of stations in embodiments of a
   device in accordance with the present disclosure;
 5 Fig. 53 shows a heat treatment station according to an embodiment;
   Fig. 54a is a picture of mechanically cleaved optical fiber ends, before applying an
   electric arc treatment;
   Fig. 54b is a picture of optical fiber ends after applying an electric arc treatment
   according to an embodiment;
10 Fig. 55 is a graph illustrating the number of times two untreated optical fibers can be
   connected and disconnected before failure;
   Fig. 56 is a graph illustrating the number of times electric arc treated optical fibers
   according to a preferred embodiment can be connected and disconnected before
   failure;
15 Figs. 57 and 58 show SEM images of untreated optical fibers;
   Figs. 59 and 60 show SEM images of heat treated optical fibers;
   Fig. 61 a shows interferometric measurements of the end face of an untreated fiber;
   Fig. 61b shows interferometric measurements of the end face of a treated fiber;
   Fig. 62 shows a cross section of an untreated and of a treated optical fiber;
20 Fig. 63a shows a cross section of a treated optical fiber;
   Fig. 63b shows the curvature of the cladding and of the core as a function of arc
   treatment duration for a treated optical fiber;
   Fig. 63c shows the cladding curvature as a function of arc treatment duration for
   fibers from different suppliers;
25 Fig. 64 shows a converter for connecting a ferrule-less optical fiber connector to a
   ferruled connector;
   Fig. 65 shows an adapter with integrated converter for connecting a ferrule-less
   optical fiber connector to a ferruled connector;
   Fig. 66 illustrates steps of a method in accordance with the present disclosure.
30
   Definitions
            The term "insertion loss" as used herein relates to the loss of signal power
                                                   36

   resulting from the insertion of a device in a transmission line or optical fiber. The
   insertion loss is usually expressed in decibels (dB).
           The "return loss" or "reflection loss" is the reflection of signal power
   resulting from the insertion of a device in a transmission line or optical fiber. It is
 5 usually expressed as a ratio in dB of the incident signal power relative to the
   reflected signal power (in order to obtain a positive number). It is advantageous to
   obtain a low reflected signal power, i.e. a high return loss.
           "Coupling" herein means performing a relative movement between the
   station and the end of the optical fiber; so that after the relative movement the
10 operation, in this case the attachment, can be performed on the optical fiber by the
   station. The relative movement can be: keeping the end of the optical fiber in a
   position that is fixed with respect to the tool and moving the station, or keeping the
   station in a position that is fixed and moving the end of the optical fiber, or moving
   both the station and the end of the optical fiber.
15         The term "fiber" as used herein relates to a single optical transmission
   element having a core having e.g. a diameter of 8 ptm and a cladding having e.g. a
   diameter of 125 pim, wherein the core is the central, light-transmitting region of the
   fiber, and the cladding is the material surrounding the core to form a guiding
   structure for light propagation within the core. The dimensions may of course be
20 different; for multimode fibers, a core diameter of 50 pim or of 62.5 pim is most
   common. The core and cladding can be coated with a primary coating usually
   comprising one or more organic or polymer layers surrounding the cladding to
   provide mechanical and environmental protection to the light-transmitting region.
   The primary coating may have a diameter ranging e.g. between 200 and 300 pim.
25 The core, cladding and primary coating usually are coated with a secondary coating,
   a so-called "buffer", a protective polymer layer without optical properties applied
   over the primary coating. The buffer or secondary coating usually has a diameter
   ranging between 300-1100 jim, depending on the cable manufacturer.
           The term "connector" as used herein relates to an element that is used to
30 terminate an optical fiber so that the fiber can be connected to another optical fiber
   or to a device. An optical fiber connector is basically a rigid cylindrical barrel
   surrounded by a sleeve that holds the barrel in its mating socket. The mating
                                                  37

   mechanism can e.g. be "push and click", "turn and latch", etc. Good alignment of
   the connected optical fibers is extremely important in order to obtain a good quality
   connection with low optical signal losses. Usually, so called ferruled connectors are
   used, wherein the stripped fiber is positioned coaxially in a ferrule. Ferrules can be
 5 made of ceramic, metal or sometimes plastic, and have a drilled center hole.
   Ferruled connectors are expensive, however. The central hole has to be drilled very
   accurately for good alignment of the optical fiber. Further, the fiber's end face is
   polished, so that the fibers in the two ferruled connectors make good physical
   contact. The polishing step is expensive. Alternative alignment solutions, containing
10 ferrule-less connectors, are much less expensive. A "connector" is in this document
   preferably a ferrule-less connector, although a connector for mechanical splicing is
   an alternative possibility. Mechanical splicing is a method to connect two optical
   fibers, wherein the fiber ends are aligned and held together by a precision-made
   connector. Mechanical splicing is normally intended for a permanent connection,
15 although in cases the fibers can still be disconnected, and connected again
   afterwards. An example of a mechanical splicing system is the RECORDspliceTM
   from Tyco Electronics. Before making a mechanical splice, the fibers are stripped of
   their coating, so that bare fiber ends are obtained. To obtain well-defined end faces
   that can then be abutted in the mechanical splice, the ends are mechanically cleaved
20 with a precision cleave tool, such as the one used in the RECORDsplice Cleaver and
   Assembly Tool (RCAT).
            That a station performs an operation "autonomously" means in this
   document that it functions independently: once the operation is started, it continues
   until the operation is terminated, without manual intervention, but possibly under the
25 control of a controller. "Autonomously" is very similar to "automatically", but in
   this text "autonomously" is used for a station of the portable device, while
   "automatically" is used on a higher level, for the portable device, to indicate
   functioning without any manual intervention or manual action. Thus, the portable
   device can function automatically. Alternatively, the stations of the device can
30 function autonomously, and the portable device can function non-automatically,
   which means that an action is performed, e.g. by the operator, between operations at
   the autonomously operating stations, either once or several times.
                                                 38

   If the coating layer or layers are removed from a portion of the fiber over a certain
   length, so that only the core and cladding remain bare, that portion of the fiber is
   "bare" as this is called in this document.
            The term "light" as used herein relates to electromagnetic radiation, which
 5 comprises a part of the electromagnetic spectrum that is classified by wavelength
   into infrared, the visible region, and ultraviolet.
           Embodiments disclosed herein can utilize a dimensionally recoverable
   element to assist in optical fiber retention. A dimensionally recoverable element is
   an element the dimensional configuration of which may be made to change
10 substantially when subjected to heat treatment. Usually these elements recover
   towards an original shape from which they have previously been deformed, but the
   term "recoverable" as used herein, also includes an element which adopts a new
   configuration even if it has not been previously deformed. In embodiments of the
   present invention heat recoverable elements recover towards an original shape in an
15 encapsulating and retaining form, in particular in an optical fiber retaining form.
           A typical form of a dimensionally recoverable element is a heat-recoverable
   element, the dimensional configuration of which may be changed by subjecting the
   element to heat treatment. In their most common form, such elements comprise a
   heat-shrinkable sleeve made from a polymeric material exhibiting the property of
20 elastic or plastic memory as described, for example, in U.S. Patents Nos. 2,027,962
   (Currie); 3,086,242 (Cook et al); and 3,597,372 (Cook), the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference. The polymeric material has been cross-linked
   during the production process so as to enhance the desired dimensional recovery.
   One method of producing a heat-recoverable element comprises shaping the
25 polymeric material into the desired heat-stable form, subsequently crosslinking the
   polymeric material, heating the element to a temperature above the crystalline
   melting point (or, for amorphous materials the softening point of the polymer),
   deforming the element, and cooling the element while in the deformed state so that
   the deformed state of the element is retained. In use, because the deformed state of
30 the element is heat-unstable, application of heat will cause the element to assume its
   original heat-stable shape.
            The term "stripping" as used herein relates to removing a coating from the
                                                   39

   optical transmission element.
            The term "evacuate" as used herein relates to remove securely waste matter
   from the optical fiber so that the debris may not recontaminate the fiber.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            The present invention will be described           with respect to particular
   embodiments and with reference to certain drawings but the invention is not limited
   thereto but only by the claims. The drawings described are only schematic and are
   non-limiting. In the drawings, the size of some of the elements may be exaggerated
10 and not drawn on scale for illustrative purposes. Where the term "comprising" is
   used in the present description and claims, it does not exclude other elements or
   steps. Where an indefinite or definite article is used when referring to a singular
   noun e.g. "a" or "an", "the", this includes a plural of that noun unless something else
   is specifically stated.
15          The term "comprising", used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being
   restricted to the means listed thereafter; it does not exclude other elements or steps.
   Thus, the scope of the expression "a device comprising means A and B" should not
   be limited to devices consisting only of components A and B. It means that with
   respect to the present invention, the only relevant components of the device are A
20 and B.
            Furthermore, the terms first, second, third and the like in the description and
   in the claims, are used for distinguishing between similar elements and not
   necessarily for describing a sequential or chronological order. It is to be understood
   that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances and that
25 the embodiments of the invention described herein are capable of operation in other
   sequences than described or illustrated herein.
            Moreover, the terms top, bottom, over, under and the like in the description
   and the claims are used for descriptive purposes and not necessarily for describing
   relative positions. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable
30 under appropriate circumstances and that the embodiments of the invention
   described herein are capable of operation in other orientations than described or
   illustrated herein.
                                                  40

           In the drawings, like reference numerals indicate like features; and, a
   reference numeral appearing in more than one figure refers to the same element.
   Fig. 1 shows a schematic representation of an embodiment of a portable device 10
 5 for attaching a connector to an optical fiber. The global layout and construction is
   discussed here; functioning of the embodiment of the device is discussed in detail
   further below. Fig. 2 shows a view of the inside of an embodiment of a device 10,
   corresponding to the schematic representation of Fig. 1.
           An optical fiber 100 having an end 101 is received by the device 10. The
10 parts of the device are mounted on frame 11 of the device.
           In the embodiment of Fig. 1, the optical fiber 100 is received by a fixed
   clamp 10 that guides and afterwards clamps the fiber. During the process, the fiber
   doesn't move with respect to the portable device; it is clamped by the fixed entry
   clamp 10. Different processing stations 30, 40, 50, 60 are mounted on a rotating
15 revolver head 14; these stations can be positioned sequentially at the location of the
   optical fiber 100 by rotating and translating the head. The revolver head 14 is rotated
   by motor 16, which may be a stepper motor, and gears 18. To translate the revolver
   head, revolver translation motor 15 (which may also be a stepper motor) is actuated.
   This makes spindle 17 turn, and translates revolver head 14 towards or away from
20 the optical fiber 100, depending on the rotation direction of revolver translation
   motor 15. In a preferred embodiment, the device 10 comprises a tape cartridge 70.
   During stripping, of the fiber coating, and also during cleaving, debris is produced.
   This debris may comprise buffer, coating, glass particles (chips, cladding/core with
   lengths up to 25 mm). One of the functions of the tape in the tape cartridge is to
25 catch the debris and to remove it. In one preferred embodiment, the device
   comprises a connector cartridge 80. Connectors 110, which may comprise two or
   even more parts to be mounted consecutively on the prepared optical fiber 100, are
   stored in the connector cartridge 80. Typically the connector cartridge may contain
   e.g. eight to twelve connectors. Connector attachment station 30 attaches a
30 connector 110 to the optical fiber 100. Energy may be supplied to the device 10 by a
   battery 12 that is preferably a rechargeable battery.
           The optical fiber 100 is aligned and guided by different means in device 10.
                                                  41

   In some embodiments, one of these means is movable clamp 22. The optical fiber is
   held by fixed clamp 20, and further by movable clamp 22. Moreover, in a preferred
   embodiment, the movable clamp may have an additional function: at the beginning
   of the operation, the operator may just insert the optical fiber a few mm into the
 5 device (in the opening of fixed clamp 20 in the embodiment of Fig. 1), whereupon
   the fiber is detected, caught by the movable clamp 22 and pulled further into the
   device by the movable clamp. A total length of e.g. 70 mm of fiber may thus be
   inserted into the tool.
            Figures 3-25 illustrate a tool 900 in accordance with the principles of the
10 present disclosure. The tool 900 includes an internal mechanism for attaching a
   connector body on an optical fiber. It is preferred for the tool 900 to be relatively
   compact and portable. In certain embodiments, the tool 900 has an overall weight
   less than 5 kilograms, or less than 3 kilograms, or less than 2 kilograms. As depicted
   at Figure 3, the tool 900 includes an outer housing 902 having a handle 904 for
15 facilitating carrying the tool 900. The housing 902 allows the tool 900 to be easily
   be carried to remote locations (i.e., locations away from a manufacturing facility or
   factory) and used to affix connector bodies to optical fibers in the field. The tool 900
   can also be used to pre-process an optical fiber prior to inserting the optical fiber
   within a connector body. The housing 902 can have various removable portions that
20 can be removed from the main body of the housing to allow access to the interior
   components for maintenance. Furthermore, the removable portions can allow
   cartridges such as a connector cartridge 906 (see Figure 15) to be loaded into the
   housing 902 as needed. Referring back to Figure 3, the housing 902 can further
   define a fiber insertion opening 908 for allowing an optical fiber 960 (see Figure 4)
25 to be inserted into the housing 902. The optical fiber 960 can be inserted into the
   housing 902 along an insertion axis 961. It will be appreciated that the fiber
   insertion opening 908 is preferably large enough to allow connector bodies to be
   removed from the interior of the housing 902 once the connector bodies have been
   affixed to corresponding optical fibers. In certain embodiments, a flexible gasket can
30 be provided at the fiber insertion opening 908 for reducing the likelihood of
   contaminants entering the housing.
            Figures 4-25 show the housing 902 with side panels removed so as to depict
                                                  42

   interior components of the tool 900. As shown at Figure 5, the housing 902 includes
   a first end 910 positioned opposite from a second end 912. Various mechanical
   components (e.g., mechanisms, arrangements, devices, etc.) are disposed within the
   housing 902. The components include a carriage 914 (i.e., a carrier) mounted on
 5 linear bearings 916 (i.e., slide rods). The linear bearings 916 extend between the first
   and second ends 910, 912, of the housing 902. During operation of the tool 900, a
   drive mechanism is used to slide the carriage 914 back and forth along the linear
   bearings 916. Movement of the carriage 914 on the linear bearings 916 is along a
   carriage slide axis 963 that is parallel to the fiber insertion axis 961. The bearings
10 916 include an upper bearing 916A and a lower bearing 916B. A pivot mechanism is
   used to pivot the upper linear bearing 916A and the carriage 914 about a pivot axis
   920 that extends through the lower linear bearing 916B (see Figures 14 and15). By
   pivoting the carriage 914 about the pivot axis 920, different operational stations
   carried by the carriage 914 can be aligned with the fiber insertion opening 908 at
15 different stages of the connector processing and affixation operation implemented by
   the tool 900. By sliding the carriage 914 back and forth along the carriage slide axis
   963, the various components carried by the carriage 914 can be moved along the
   fiber insertion axis 961 axially toward the optical fiber 960 and axially away from
   the axial fiber 960. It will be appreciated that any number of different mechanical
20 drive mechanisms can be used within the housing 902 to provide the desired
   automation and movement of parts. Example drive mechanisms include servo
   motors, stepper motors, screw drives or other known drive mechanisms. A battery or
   other power means can also be provided within the housing for powering the various
   mechanical components.
25         Referring to Figure 14, the carriage 914 includes a base 922 that is slidably
   mounted on the linear bearings 916A, 916B and that can be pivoted about the pivot
   axis 920. The carriage 914 also includes a plate 924 mounted to one side of the base
   922 and a rotating head 926 mounted to an opposite side of the base 922. A first side
   930 (see Figure 5) of the plate 924 faces away from the base 922 and a second side
30 931 (see Figure 14) of the plate 924 faces toward the base 922. Various operational
   components are carried by the carriage 914. For example, a stripping station 928
   (see Figure 5) is mounted at the first side 930 of the plate 924. It will be appreciated
                                                   43

   that the stripping station 928 can have any of the features of stripping stations
   described elsewhere herein. As depicted, the stripping station 928 includes heated
   clamping members 932A, 932B that are movable between an open position (see
   Figures 5-8) and a closed position (see Figure 9). Also mounted at the first side 930
 5 of the plate 924 is a continuous reel waste collection device 934 (i.e., a waste
   evacuation device). It will be appreciated that the waste collection device 934 can
   have any of the features of waste evacuation devices described elsewhere herein. As
   depicted, the waste collection device 934 includes tapes 936A, 936B dispensed from
   dispensing reels 938A, 938B and routed between the heated clamping members
10 932A, 932B. The tapes 936A, 936B are adapted to capture debris generated from
   stripping and cleaving operations and enclose the debris between the tapes 936A,
   936B in the form of a tape sandwich. The sandwiched tapes pass through a gap
   between the heated clamping members 932A, 932B and are collected on a collection
   reel 940. The tape 936A is routed around the periphery of the plate 924 and is
15 guided by guide rollers 942 to a position adjacent to the heated clamping members
   932A. The tape 936B is routed more directly to the heated clamping member 932B.
   The tapes 936A, 936B merge at the heated clamping members 932A, 932B and pass
   between the heated clamping members 932A, 932B.
           The rotating head 926 of the carriage 914 is rotatable about an axis of
20 rotation 946 (see Figure 17) that is generally transverse with respect to the pivot axis
   920, the fiber insertion axis 961        and the carriage slide axis 463. Various
   components/stages are mounted on the rotating head 926. The components can be
   mounted to the rotating head 926 at locations that are radially spaced about the axis
   of rotation 946. In this way, by rotating/indexing the rotating head 926 about the
25 axis of rotation 946, the rotating head 926 can function as a carousel for sequentially
   bringing the various components into axial alignment with the insertion axis of the
   optical fiber 910. As shown at Figure 16, one of the components carried by the
   rotating head 926 is an arc treatment station 941 of a type described elsewhere
   herein. Additionally, an optical testing station 942 and a connector body carrier and
30 heating station 944 are mounted to the rotating head 926. By pivoting the carriage
   914 to a given location about the pivot axis 920, and rotating/indexing the rotating
   head 926 about the axis of rotation 946 to a desired location, the arc treatment
                                                  44

   station 942, the optical testing station 942 and the connector body carrier and
   heating station 944 can be sequentially aligned with the fiber insertion opening 908
   and the fiber insertion axis 961 during processing and connectorization of the optical
   fiber.
 5         Various additional mechanisms and components are also mounted within the
   housing 902. For example, a cleaving station 950 (see Figure 12) is mounted to a top
   wall of the housing 902. A drive mechanism is preferably provided for extending
   and retracting (e.g., lowering an raising) the cleaving station 950 relative to the
   insertion axis 961 of the optical fiber 960. An arrangement of fiber clamps are also
10 provided within the housing 902. In one embodiment, the arrangement of clamps
   can include a first clamp 954 (see Figures 6 and 7), a second clamp 956 (see Figure
   4) and a third clamp 957 (see Figure 12). The first clamp 954 is mounted to the
   carriage 914 at a location adjacent to the stripping station. Since the first clamp 954
   is mounted to the carriage 914, movement of the carriage 914 along its slide axis
15 963 moves the first clamp 954 along the slide axis 963 and also along the fiber
   insertion axis 961. Thus, a drive mechanism is provided for moving the first clamp
   954 along the insertion axis 961 of the optical fiber. The first clamp 954 can be
   referred to as an axially movable clamp since it is movable along the insertion axis
   961 of the optical fiber. The second clamp 956 is mounted to the first end 910 of the
20 housing 902 adjacent the insertion opening 908. In the depicted embodiment, the
   second clamp 956 is not movable along the insertion axis 961 of the optical fiber
   960 and therefore can be referred to as an axially fixed clamp or a fixed clamp. The
   third clamp 957 is positioned between the first and second clamps 954, 956 and can
   be referred to as an intermediate clamp.
25          The connector cartridge 906 of the tool 900 is preferably loaded with
   connector bodies 958 (see Figure 15). The connector cartridge 906 can include a
   plurality of slots or positions in which the connector bodies can be individually held.
   In one embodiment, the connector cartridge 906 can be a carousel that is indexed by
   a drive mechanism to consecutively position the slots containing the connector
30 bodies 958 at a connector body pick-up location where the connector bodies 958 can
   be fed (e.g., by a pusher device) from the connector cartridge 906 to the connector
   body carrier and heating station 944. When all of the connector bodies 958 have
                                                  45

   been dispensed from the connector cartridge 906, the connector cartridge 906 can be
   removed from the housing 902 and replaced with a fully loaded connector cartridge
   906.
           In a preferred embodiment, a heat recoverable sleeve containing heat
 5 activated adhesive is preferably pre-mounted within each of the connector bodies
   958. As described elsewhere herein, the heat recoverable sleeves are preferably
   positioned over attachment elements that are affixed or otherwise connected within
   the connector bodies 958. Once the connector cartridge 902 has been loaded within
   the housing 902, the tool 900 is ready to be used for processing optical fibers and for
10 affixing connector bodies to the optical fibers.
            To process and connectorize an optical fiber 960, it is only necessary to
   insert the optical fiber 960 into the housing 902 through the fiber insertion opening
   908 along the insertion axis 961. Figure 4 shows the optical fiber 960 being inserted
   into the housing 902. Once the optical fiber 960 is inserted into the housing 902, the
15 carriage 914 slides along the linear bearings 916 (i.e., along the carriage slide axis
   963) toward optical fiber 960 at the first end 910 of the housing 902 (see Figure 5).
   The first clamp 954 then clamps on the optical fiber 960 and the carriage 914 is slid
   back toward the second end 912 of the housing 902 along the linear bearings 916 to
   pull a predetermined length of the optical fiber 960 into the housing 902 (see Figure
20 6). Once the predetermined length of optical fiber has been pulled into the housing
   902, the second clamp 956 is actuated to axially fix the optical fiber relative to the
   housing 902. The first clamp 954 is then opened (see Figure 7) and the carriage 914
   is slid back toward the first end 910 of the housing 902 such that the optical fiber
   960 moves between the heated clamping elements 932A, 932B (see Figure 8). The
25 heated clamping elements 932A, 932B are then moved from the open position to the
   closed position (see Figure 9) and heated. In this way, the heated clamping elements
   932A, 932B heat and clamp an outer coating of the optical fiber 960. The tapes
   936A, 936B are positioned between the optical fiber 960 and their respective heated
   clamping elements 932A, 932B and function as protective layers/shields as well as
30 providing a debris capturing function.
            Once the coating of the optical fiber 960 has been heated and otherwise
   processed (e.g., scored) at the stripping station, the carriage 914 is moved back
                                                  46

   along the linear bearings 916 toward the second end 912 (i.e., axially away from the
   optical fiber 960) such that the heated and clamped portion of the coating of the
   optical fiber 960 is axially pulled and thereby stripped from the bare glass portion of
   the optical fiber 960. The stripped portion of the coating is captured between the
 5 tapes 936A, 936B of the waste collection device 934. Figure 10 shows the optical
   fiber with the end portion of the coating stripped from the bare glass portion.
            After stripping, the optical fiber 960 is clamped by the third clamp 957 and
   the first clamp 954 (see Figure 11). The first clamp 954 clamps on the bare glass
   portion of the optical fiber 960 and the third clamp 957 clamps on a coated portion
10 of the optical fiber. The cleaving station 950 is then extended thereby lowering the
   cleaving station 950 to a cleaving position aligned with the insertion axis 961 of the
   optical fiber 960 (see Figure 12). The optical fiber 960 is then cleaved by the
   cleaving station 950. The waste end portion of the fiber and any other cleaving
   debris are captured by the waste collection device 934. After cleaving, the cleaving
15 station 950 is retracted (see Figure 13) and the carriage 914 is pivoted about the
   pivot axis 920 (see Figures 14 and 15) to offset the stripping station from the fiber
   insertion axis 961 and to orient the rotating head 926 in alignment with the fiber
   insertion axis 961. As so positioned, the arc treatment station 941 carried by the
   rotating head 926 aligns with the optical fiber 960 (see Figures 15 and 16).
20          The carriage 914 is then slid along the carriage slide axis 963 back toward
   the first end 910 of the housing 902 (i.e., back towards the optical fiber 960) such
   that the optical fiber 960 is received/positioned/inserted within the arc treatment
   station 941 (see Figure 17). With the optical fiber 960 positioned within the arc
   treatment station 941, the cleaved end of the optical fiber 960 is processed by an arc
25 treatment process of the type described elsewhere herein. After the arc treatment
   process has been completed, the carriage 914 is slid back away from optical fiber
   960 along the carriage slide axis 963 such that the optical fiber 960 is removed from
   the arc treatment station (see Figure 18). The rotating head 926 is indexed about the
   axis of rotation 946 to bring the optical testing station 942 into axial alignment with
30 the optical fiber 960 (see Figure 19). The carriage 914 is then again slid along the
   carriage axis 963 toward the optical fiber 960 such that the optical fiber 960 is
   received into the optical testing station 942 for optical testing (see Figure 20).
                                                  47

           After optical testing, the carriage 914 is slid along the carriage slide axis 463
   away from the optical fiber 960 to a position where the optical fiber 960 is removed
   from the optical testing station 942 and the connector body carrier and heating
   station 944 is positioned directly adjacent to the connector cartridge 906 (see Figure
 5 21). A connector body 958 is then dispensed from the connector carriage 906 into
   the connector body carrier and heating station 944 (see Figure 22). It will be
   appreciated that a mechanical pusher or other structure can be used to transfer the
   connector body 958 from the connector cartridge 906 to the connector body carrier
   and heating station 944. It will also be appreciated that the connector cartridge 906
10 can be rotationally indexed such that a given connector body 958 is ready to be
   dispensed to the connector body carrier and heating station 944.
           Once the connector body 958 has been loaded into the connector body carrier
   and heating station 944, the rotating head 926 is indexed about the axis of rotation
   946 to bring the connector body 958 held by the connector body carrier and heating
15 station 944 into alignment with the optical fiber 960 (see Figure 23). The carriage
   914 is then slid along the carriage slide axis 963 back toward the optical fiber 960
   such that the optical fiber 960 is received into the connector body 958 (see Fig. 24).
   As the connector body 958 slides over the optical fiber 960, it will be appreciated
   that the optical fiber 960 fits inside the heat recoverable sleeve that is positioned
20 over the attachment member connected within the connector body 958. With the
   optical fiber 960 extending within the heat recoverable member, the heat recoverable
   member is heated by the connector body carrier and heating station 944 as described
   elsewhere herein to shrink the heat recoverable sleeve down upon the optical fiber
   and to activate heat activated adhesive located within the heat recoverable sleeve.
25 Once the adhesive has suitably cured, the adhesive and the heat recoverable sleeve
   cooperate with the attachment member to axially affix the optical fiber 960 within
   the connector body 958. The various clamps within the housing 902 are then
   released thereby allowing the operator to pull the optical fiber 960 with the
   connector body 958 attached thereto from the housing 902 through the fiber
30 insertion opening 908 (see Fig. 25). The various mechanisms within the housing 902
   then reset and the tool 900 is ready to process and connectorize another optical fiber
   in the same manner described above.
                                                  48

            In certain embodiments, the arc treatment is performed at the cleaved end of
   the optical fiber 960 so as to provide an arc treated, unspliced end of the optical
   fiber. Such a treatment is particularly suitable for ferrule-less connectors. In such
   embodiments, the heat recoverable sleeve and adhesive can affix the optical fiber to
 5 the connector body in cooperation with the attachment member, and no optical
   splice is provided within the heat recoverable sleeve. In other embodiments, a
   ferruled connector can be manufactured by pre-installing a ferrule within fiber optic
   pigtail in each connector body 958, and then splicing (e.g., fusion splicing) the fiber
   optic pigtail to the optical fiber 960. The splice can be protected and reinforced by a
10 heat recoverable sleeve containing heat activated adhesive.
            In some embodiments, another aligning means is cam plate opening 150 in
   cam plate 140, shown in Fig. 50. A function of cam plate 140, which is also shown
   in Fig. 2, is to actuate specific clamps in the device 10. Further, cam plate opening
    150 is used to align optical fiber 100 near its end 101.
15          In the embodiment of Figs. 1 and 2, the different stations used to perform
   operations to prepare the optical fiber 100 are configured in a rotationally symmetric
   layout.
            Fig. 51 illustrates such a layout: the stations 90 rotate, e.g. in the direction of
   arrow 28, around an axis 103 parallel to the axis 102 of the optical fiber 100. As
20 mentioned already above, the relative movement is important; therefore in another
   embodiment the stations may remain fixed and the optical fiber may rotate.
            Fig. 52 illustrates another possible layout, wherein the stations 90 translate in
   the direction of arrow 27, perpendicular to the axis 102 of optical fiber 100. In Fig.
   52, the stations are arranged along a single row. In another, preferred embodiment
25 the stations are aligned along more than one, preferably along two, parallel rows.
   The stations can then be moved by translational movements to the location of optical
   fiber 100. Such a layout along two rows is compact, as is also the case for the
   rotational layout shown in Fig. 51.
            Now the different operations will be discussed that may be performed in the
30 different stations of the portable tool.
            Fig. 39 shows a stripping station 40 and tape cartridge 70. In the stripping
   station, one or more coatings are removed from the optical fiber. The stripping is
                                                    49

   performed by a reliable stripping process; this is required because of the high degree
   of automation of the device. In one embodiment, the fiber is stripped as follows.
   Stripping is performed in two or more steps: in a first step the buffer is stripped, in
   the subsequent step or steps the coating. Preferably, stripping knives as well as
 5 heaters are used: the buffer and coating are heated by the heaters, and subsequently
   an incision in the coating, not as far as the cladding, is made by the knives. The
   knives are retracted, and the heaters move in a direction along the fiber axis, while
   clamping the fiber. A friction force is thus exerted by the heaters on the fiber, while
   the fiber cladding and core are clamped (by the fixed clamp 20), so that the coating
10 is removed. In an embodiment, a set of coatings having diameters of 900 pm and
   250 pm are removed. In one embodiment, the coatings are removed over a length of
   35 mm. Preferably, the heaters have the form of flat clamps. In a preferred
   embodiment, the heaters are protected from direct contact with the coated fiber by
   tape. This prevents the heaters from being contaminated by hot coating residues.
15          Figs. 41a and 41b schematically illustrate the operation of an embodiment of
   a stripping device 540. Figs. 41a and 41b show side views of the stripping device
   540, in two different positions. In Fig. 41a, optical fiber 100 is held by fixed clamps
   20 and positioned between heated stripping clamps 551, 552. The stripping clamps
   are closed, and clamp fiber 100. They are protected by protective means 511, so that
20 they do not contact the coated fiber 100. The fixed clamps 20 may support fiber 100
   continuously throughout the stripping process. Before the fiber enters the stripping
   clamps 551, 552, a movable clamp (not shown) may be provided to guide the fiber
   end between the stripping clamps 551, 552 in such way that no contact between the
   fiber end and the tapes is established. Preferably, first an incision can be made in the
25 coating but not as far as the cladding by means for making an incision, e.g.
   retractable knives or heated profiled blades or a heated protruding element 604.
   After making an incision the means for making an incision 604 can be retracted. The
   retraction can be controlled by an actuating moving means 614, such as a motor. The
   clamps are heated at a temperature between 100 and 120 'C of e.g. 120'C. The
30 coating of the optical fiber 100 is thus heated, and weakened preferably the heated
   plates and the means for making an incision are protected at all times by the
   protective means 511. The making of an incision by the means for making an
                                                  50

   incision 604 may occur before or during the heating. The stripping clamps 551, 552
   clamp the fiber 100 and protective means 511, gluing both tapes 511 together and
   capturing the coating. The stripping clamps 551, 552 are moved relatively to the
   cladding of the optical fiber, by actuating moving means, such as a motor,
 5 comprised in the stripping device 540. In Fig. 41b, the stripping clamps 551, 552 are
   translated along the fiber axis away from the fixed clamps over a predefined
   distance. The coating is translated as well because of the frictional force between the
   coating and the protected stripping clamps, and as a result the coating breaks at the
   location between the heated and the non-heated portion. The captured coating 541 of
10 the optical fiber is sandwiched between the protective means 511. The protective
   means 511 may be a tape, whereby the single tape may be guided around the optical
   fiber so that it forms a wrap, and that the captured coating 541 is caught between
   two portions of the single tape facing each other and forming a sandwich. In some
   embodiments two tapes can be used, each tape protecting a stripping clamp and a
15 means for making an incision e.g. one adhesive tape and one non-adhesive tape, so
   that the sandwich may be evacuated and move the captured coating 541 away from
   the stripping clamps. Because of the protective means 511, the hot stripping clamps
   551, 552 and means for making an incision 604 are not contaminated by coating
   debris. An additional advantage is that this stripping process can easily be performed
20 in an automated device, since coating debris is safely evacuated.
           In some embodiments, the tape material preferably has high strength and
   good resistance to temperatures up to e.g. 220 'C. Further it preferably has a low
   coefficient of friction with respect to glass, preventing high clamping forces on the
   fiber after the stripping operation. A tape comprising of non-woven materials may
25 be used, such as cellulose based materials.
            Other materials used for a tape according to embodiments herein can be for
   instance Kapton tape, which is a polyimide film (poly [4,4'-oxydiphenylene
   pyromellitimide]), which can remain stable in a wide range of temperatures, from
   273 to +400 'C. Also different other types of tape substrates can be used such as
30 PET (polyethylene) which can be used at lower temperatures (up to 120            C). In
   embodiments where profiled blades are used, tapes consisting of a woven textile
   material can be used. For instance two types that are commercially available can be
                                                  51

   used: (1) Optipop RS, which is the tape material used in the optical connector
   cleaner Optipop RI produced by NTT AT, and (2) a woven textile tape material as
   used in ReelClean 500 optical fiber connector cleaner produced by Korean company
   TheFibers Inc.
 5          In case of perpendicular tape transport, the tape may have a width of about
   25 mm which is about the stripping length. The tape may also have markers which
   are used to wind the tape over the right distance and indicate the end of the tape. The
   tape may be carried in a cartridge that can be wider than the tape to accommodate
   debris protruding from the tape.
10          In addition, when using a single tape and/or second tape in some
   embodiments, to protect the fiber when using a heater, a tape comprising no sticky
   or adhesive zones can be used. The heat produced by the heater preferably generates
   the sticky behavior of the tape which helps the trapping of the debris. In an
   alternative embodiment, the tape can comprise zones with adhesives, whereby the
15 adhesives become sticky after heat activation, thus the heat activated tape remains
   usually tack-free until it is activated by a heat source.
            In other embodiments, the first or second tape may comprise zones which are
   embossed, whereby said embossed zones are adapted to cover perforated zones of
   the other tape. The embossed zone of the first or second tape and the perforated zone
20 of the other tape are positioned such that a sandwich can be formed when both tapes
   are aiding the trapping of the debris.
            As protective means 511 two tapes may be used, each for one heated clamp.
   The two tapes may be of the same type, or of a different type. Alternatively, a single
   tape may be used that is wrapped around the fiber when it is inserted between the
25 clamps, so that it protects both stripping clamps. The tape 511 may be driven
   between the stripping clamps in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the optical
   fiber, as shown in Fig. 45a. Alternatively, the tape 511 may be driven in a direction
   parallel to the axis of the fiber 100, as shown in Fig. 45b.
            After evacuation of the stripped coating of the optical fiber 541, the stripped
30 portion of the optical fiber can be guided back (not shown) and positioned between
   the stripping clamps 551, 552, then the stripping clamps are closed, which clamp the
   fiber 100. Again, the clamps and knives are preferably both protected by protective
                                                   52

   means 511, so that they do not contact the stripped portion of the optical fiber. The
   fixed clamps 20 may support the fiber 100 continuously throughout the stripping
   process. The heating clamps are heated at a temperature of e.g. 120'C and any
   remaining debris on the stripped optical fiber 100 is thus heated, and weakened. The
 5 stripping clamps 551, 552 are moved relatively to the stripped optical fiber, by
   actuating moving means, such as a motor, comprised in the stripping device 540.
   The stripping clamps 551, 552 are translated along the fiber axis away from the
   fixed clamps over a predefined distance. The remaining debris on the stripped
   portion of the optical fiber is translated as well because of the frictional force
10 between the coating and the protected stripping clamps, and as a result the remaining
   debris of the stripped fiber is captured and sandwiched between the protective means
   511. As a result the stripped portion of the optical fiber is cleaned and the remaining
   debris can be safely evacuated in a next step. In this embodiment, the retractable
   knives preferably are not applied.
15         In another embodiment schematically illustrated in Fig. 42, the a stripping
   device 540 further can comprise cleaning means 640. Before the stripping clamps 1
   or means of making an incision 604 are translated along the fiber axis away from the
   fixed clamps over a predefined distance, the cleaning means 640 are pivoted in a
   direction, as illustrated by arrows 641, 642. When the stripping clamps or means for
20 making in an incision 604 are translated along the optical fiber axis, the cleaning
   means which cover the stripped portion of the optical fiber clean the stripped portion
   of the optical fiber along the axis of the optical fiber. The cleaning means 640
   slightly put pressure on the stripped portion of the optical fiber and as a result of the
   translating movement of the stripping clamps the stripped portion of the optical fiber
25 is cleaned.
           Each cleaning means preferably can comprise a container which can be filled
   with a cleaning liquid. The cleaning liquid preferably is functional and hazardless
   during the heating of the clamps or means for making an incision. Preferably a
   benzyl alcohol is used having a suitable flaming and/or boiling point. For instance
30 benzyl alcohol, having a boiling temperature of 203-205'C, a flaming point of 98'C,
   an ignition temperature of 436'C can be used which is preferably non-toxic. Other
   examples can be improved formulations and mixtures based on benzyl alcohol such
                                                  53

   as for instance:
   - 50% mixture of benzyl alcohol and TEGMBE (Triethylene glycol monobutyl
   ether), or
   - a mixture of benzyl alcohol with 1% surfactant Byk333 (Polyether modified
 5 polydimethylsiloxane). Both additive substances are preferably chosen in order to
   improve cleaning performance by reducing the mixture's surface tension below that
   of the benzyl alcohol, in order to replicate the behavior of IPA (IsoPropyl Alcohol),
   but were also chosen such that the boiling point and flaming point would be
   comparable or higher to those of benzyl alcohol.
10          The cleaning means can be made of a rubber material such that the disposal
   of the cleaning liquid on the stripped fiber is performed in a controlled manner. One
   could also use a sponge material as cleaning means; however controlling the
   disposal or spreading of the cleaning liquid can be more difficult as compared to a
   rubber material. When translating the stripping clamps or means for making an
15 incision along the fiber axis the stripped portion of the optical fiber is cleaned,
   preferably the protective means used in this embodiment can be a tape which is
   made of a textile material such that it can transfer the cleaning liquid to the stripped
   portion of the optical fiber in a most optimal way.
            In other embodiments the cleaning means can be retractable in stead of
20 pivotable, whereby the cleaning means are positioned on a stripped portion of the
   optical fiber, when the optical fiber is translated resulting in a cleaning of the
   stripped portion of the optical fiber. The retractable cleaning means can be
   controlled by an actuating moving means (not shown), such as a motor. After the
   cleaning operation the cleaning means can be retracted back to their original
25 position. However, pivotable cleaning means are preferred as they advantageously
   take less space and result in a smaller stripping device.
            Fig. 43a schematically shows a means for making an incision, for instance a
   profiled blade or knife according to another embodiment of the present invention.
   The profiled blade comprises an edged profile whereby the surface profile is adapted
30 to fit to a protective means over the coating or cladding of an optical fiber. The edge
   profile of the profiled blade 660 comprises arcuate grooves preferably semicircular
   stripping grooves repetitively positioned next to each other along a direction
                                                   54

   perpendicular to the fiber axis, having a period of 0.3mm, which have dimensions
   adapted to fit around an optical fiber, for instance having a radius of 0.0625 mm.
   The surface profile is shaped so that a free optical fiber end locates in one of the
   arcuate elements, i.e. is trapped thereby. Fig. 43b shows an enlarged view of detail
 5 A of the profiled surface blade.
           The shape of the profiled blade is designed such that the larger radius portion
   of the curved edge matches the outer diameter of the bare fiber (i.e. 0.125mm) with
   a circular clearance around the fiber of i.e. 0.05mm to accommodate the cleaning
   means and/or the protective means (i.e. cleaning textile). When, two profiled blades
10 are used, the resulting hole diameter is preferably such that it will cut enough into
   the coating but will not contact the cladding. This prevents the means for making an
   incision from damaging the glass fiber.
           Fig. 44a and Fig. 44b schematically illustrate the advantage of using a
   profiled means for making an incision as compared to a straight means for making
15 an incision. When using protective means, such as for instance a tape material 511,
   the profiled means for making an incision enables the protective means to cover a
   larger portion of the surface of the optical fiber 100. As a result, a larger portion of
   the coating of the optical fiber 100 is heated and weakened resulting in a more
   efficient heating of the coated optical fiber.
20         Instead of two heaters or two means for making an incision, more heaters or
   means for making an incision, or just a single heater or means for making an
   incision, may be provided. The guiding element or guiding elements is/are
   preferably adapted for guiding the protective means, for instance the tape, or tapes,
   to protect the heater(s) and optionally the means for making an incision from
25 contacting the optical fiber. As discussed above, this prevents the heater(s) or means
   for making incision from being soiled by heated coating. The tape may thus have
   two functions: in evacuating the debris on the one hand, and protecting the heater(s)
   and optionally means for making an incision from contacting the optical fiber on the
   other hand.
30         Different orientations of a tape of optionally tapes are possible. The tapes
   511, 512 may be guided in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the optical fiber
    100, as shown in Fig. 45a. Alternatively, the tapes 511, 512 may be guided in a
                                                  55

   direction parallel to the axis of the optical fiber 100, as shown in Fig. 45b.
   Figs. 47a to 47e schematically show an embodiment of a stripping operation in a
   direction parallel to the axis of the optical fiber, and the subsequent debris
 5 evacuation. In Fig. 47a, optical fiber 100 is inserted, in the direction of arrow 556,
   between the heaters 551 and 552 that are protected by tapes 511 and 512 (or by a
   single folded tape). Preferably the optical fiber 100 is inserted in between the heaters
   551 and 552 over a distance of 10 to 70 cm. A first incision is performed on the
   optical fiber 100 preferably in the coating but not as far as the cladding by the means
10 for making an incision 604, for instance retractable knives with profiled blades or
   heated profiled blades, as shown in Fig. 47b. After making an incision, the means
   for making an incision 604 can be retracted. In other embodiments, the means for
   making an incision can be non-retractable, i.e. after making an incision the means
   for making an incision remain in contact with the optical fiber. As a result, in when
15 non-retractable means for making an incision are used, the clamps and the means for
   making an incision 604 are translated in a relative movement; the means for making
   an incision in addition scrape the heated and weakened coating from optical fiber.
   The making of an incision can thus be obtained mechanically or by heating the
   blades at a temperature of e.g. 200 'C. In embodiments where retractable means for
20 making an incision are used, the retraction can be controlled by an actuating moving
   means (not shown), such as a motor. The heaters 551 and 552 are moved towards
   each other, in the direction of arrows 558, as shown in Fig. 47c, and the coating of
   the optical fiber is heated (Fig. 47c). The clamps are preferably heated at a
   temperature between 100 and 120 'C of e.g. 120'C whereas the retractable knives
25 are heating at a temperature of e.g. 200 'C. Subsequently, the optical fiber is pulled
   out by suitable pulling means, in the direction of arrow 557. Before the translational
   movement, the cleaning means 540 are pivoted in a direction, as illustrated by
   arrows 641, 642, such that the cleaning means cover the stripped portion of the
   optical fiber along the axis while the optical fiber is pulled out the from the fixed
30 clamps over a predefined distance as illustrated in Fig. 47d. The cleaning means 640
   slightly put pressure on the stripped portion of the optical fiber and as a result of the
   translating movement of the stripping clamps the stripped portion of the optical fiber
                                                    56

   is cleaned. The stripped-off coating is left as debris 541 between the tapes (or tape)
   as illustrated in Fig. 47e. Instead of pulling the optical fiber out, the heaters 551, 552
   may be moved in the direction opposite to the direction of arrow 557; only a relative
   movement is required. Then, heaters 551 and 552 are moved away from each other
 5 in the direction of arrows 559, and preferably the cleaning means are pivoted back in
   their original position (Fig. 47d), and finally the tapes 511 and 512 (or single folded
   tape) are moved in the direction of arrow 563, thus evacuating the debris 541.
            The tape material preferably has high strength and good resistance to
   temperatures up to 220 'C. Further it preferably has a low coefficient of friction with
10 respect to glass, preventing high clamping forces on the fiber after the stripping
   operation. Tape of non-woven materials may be used, such as lens cleaning tissue.
   Especially in case of perpendicular tape transport, the tape may have a width of
   about 25 mm which is about the stripping length. The tape may also have markers
   which are used to wind the tape over the right distance and indicate the end of the
15 tape. The tape may be carried in a cartridge that can be wider than the tape to
   accommodate debris protruding from the tape.
            It is advantageous to provide a separate, replaceable unit with protective
   means, such as tape cartridge 70, for the stripping heaters. In this way, it is easy to
   provide new protective means when all protective means were used up, by simply
20 exchanging the old unit for a new one, i.e. in the embodiment of Fig. 39 by replacing
   the cartridge 70. Moreover, the waste is thus removed. In a preferred embodiment,
   the tape cartridge is sufficient for more than 60 connector attachments.
            Fig. 38a illustrates a first tape arrangement for use with a debris forming
   station in accordance with an embodiment. For example, one tape 511 can be used
25 so that the debris is trapped between two portions of the one tape 511. The station is
   adapted to form a tape sandwich, whereby the sandwich is formed by two different
   longitudinal portions of one tape 511 that are folded over with the fold being
   transverse to the tape to form a sandwich, and the debris, is evacuated in the
   direction of arrow 561. To achieve this the tape is inserted between two clamps 551,
30 552 so that it folds over on itself longitudinally to thereby form a sandwich when the
   clamps are closed thus trapping debris.
            Fig. 38b illustrates a second tape arrangement for use with a debris forming
                                                   57

   station in accordance with an embodiment. For example, one tape 511 can be used
   so that the debris is trapped between two portions of the one tape 511. The station is
   adapted to form a tape sandwich, whereby the sandwich is formed by two portions
   of one tape 511, as illustrated schematically in Fig. 38b, and the debris, is evacuated
 5 in the direction of arrow 561. To achieve this, the tape can be guided so that it folds
   over on itself with a fold along a longitudinal axis to thereby form a wrap around the
   fiber 100. By closing the open sides of the wrap, e.g. by closing the sides by rollers,
   the sandwich is formed thus trapping debris.
            Fig. 39 schematically shows a device 540 for evacuating debris 541 from an
10 optical fiber 100. In station 90, an operation is performed on an optical fiber 100 that
   generates debris 541. The debris is removed from the optical fiber 100 in station 90
   and caught between a first tape 511 and a second tape 521. The first and the second
   tape form a sandwich 531 that is transported in the direction of arrow 536 and that
   evacuates the debris 541, i.e. is securely held such that the evacuated debris will not
15 come into contact with the fiber again. In this embodiment, the device 90 includes a
   tape cartridge 70. The tape cartridge includes a first roller 514 with a supply of the
   first tape 511 and a second roller 524 with a supply of the second tape 521. Both
   tapes come together in the station 90, and after trapping the debris form tape
   sandwich 531 with the trapped debris 541, that is wound on take-up roller 534, and
20 that thus evacuates the debris 541. In this embodiment, the first tape 511 is guided
   by guiding roller 513 and by a small roller (not shown) at an edge of heater 551 of
   station 90, and the second tape 521 is guided by guiding roller 523, while the
   sandwich 531 when completed is guided by guiding roller 533. The guiding rollers
   of the first and of the second tape are positioned such that the debris 541 is caught
25 between the tapes 511, 521 in station 90. Guiding roller 513 is driven by a driving
   element 512, e.g. an electric motor, and guiding roller 23 is driven by driving
   element 522. Further, sandwich 531 is guided by guiding roller 33 and driven by
   driving element 532. The driving elements drive the guiding elements by any
   suitable method, e.g. the driving element may be concentric with the guiding
30 element it drives.
            Preferably, the driving elements 512, 522 and 532, which are in the
   embodiment of Fig. 39, do not form part of the tape cartridge 70, but are part of the
                                                  58

   device 540. The tape cartridge 70 is preferably just a consumable that comprises the
   first and the second tape. A tape cartridge 70 of which the tapes were used up can
   then easily be replaced by a new, full cartridge. Using such a tape cartridge is thus
   very convenient. In another embodiment, one or more driving elements for the tape
 5 may be part of the tape cartridge. It is preferred that the tape cartridge 70 comprises
   means for guiding the tapes. The path of the tapes, and the path of the sandwich,
   which is determined by the guiding means, is preferably such that the first 511 and
   the second 521 tape form a sandwich 531 immediately after the debris 541 is caught
   between the first and the second tape. In this way, the debris is safely evacuated, and
10 cannot soil the device 540 or recontaminate the fiber 100. That the debris 541 is
   safely evacuated is especially advantageous when the device 540 is automated, or is
   integrated in an automated tool.
           Preferably, the first and/or second tape 511 or 521 has sticky or adhesive
   zones for contacting the other tape 521 or 511. One or both tapes may be sticky or
15 have adhesive capability (e.g. inherently or from a coating) over its entire surface
   facing the other tapes, or it may just comprise sticky or adhesive zones. Preferably,
   one tape has sticky or adhesive zones and the other tape has not. This helps in
   trapping the debris 541, and in forming the sandwich 531. In addition, when using a
   single tape and/or second tape in some embodiments, to protect the fiber when using
20 a heater, a tape comprising no sticky or adhesive zones can be used. The heat
   produced by the heater preferably generates the sticky behavior of the tape which
   helps the trapping of the debris. In an alternative embodiment, the tape can comprise
   zones with adhesives, whereby said adhesives become sticky after heat activation,
   thus the heat activated tape remains usually tack-free until it is activated by a heat
25 source.
           In one embodiment of a device as shown in Fig. 39, station 90 is a stripping
   station 40 for removing at least one coating from the optical fiber. Station 40
   comprises a first heater 551 and a second heater 552. Both heaters 551, 552 are used
   to heat the coating of the optical fiber 100 so that it can be removed more easily
30 from the optical fiber. Tape 511 protects heater 551 from contacting the heated
   optical fiber 100, so that contamination of the heater 551 by residues of the heated
   coating is avoided. Tape 512 protects heater 552 from contacting the heated optical
                                                  59

   fiber 100, to avoid contamination of heater 552.
            Another embodiment of the stripping operation is illustrated more in detail in
   Figs. 40a and 40b. Figs. 40a and 40b show a schematic side view of the stripping
   station 40 of Fig. 39. The optical fiber 100 is inserted into the device 540 in the
 5 direction of arrow 562, and the transport direction of the tapes 511 and 521 is
   perpendicular to the plane of the drawing. In Fig. 40a, the optical fiber 100 is shown
   inserted between the heaters 551 and 552. Tapes 511 and 521 protect the heaters 551
   and 552 from contacting the optical fiber 100. Then, heaters 551 and 552 are moved
   towards each other so that they clamp optical fiber 100, and subsequently the heaters
10 551, 552 are moved in the direction of arrow 555, as shown in Fig. 40b. The end of
   optical fiber 100 is thus stripped of at least one coating, which remains as debris 541
   between the first tape 511 and the second tape 512. Heaters 551 and 552 are moved
   away from each other, and then movement of the tapes 511, 512 evacuates the debris
   as discussed above, with reference to Fig. 39. Tapes 511 and 512 are driven over a
15 certain distance and then the tape transport is stopped, so that new tape is available
   at station 40, for another stripping operation.
            Instead of two heaters, more heaters, or just a single heater, may be provided.
   The guiding element or guiding elements is/are preferably adapted for guiding the
   tape, or tapes, to protect the heater, or heaters, from contacting the optical fiber. As
20 discussed above, this prevents the heater(s) from being soiled by heated coating. The
   tape may thus have two functions: in evacuating the debris on the one hand, and
   protecting the heater(s) from contacting the optical fiber on the other hand.
            If a separate tape cartridge 70 is used, device 540 is preferably adapted to
   receive such a tape cartridge 70. The device 540 itself may include driving elements
25 and/or guiding elements for the tapes. The guiding elements may then be adapted to
   trap the debris between the first and the second tape, thus forming a sandwich, as
   discussed above. No tape cartridge then needs to be provided; all driving and
   guiding elements are then provided in the device 540. Alternatively, some guiding
   elements for the tapes may be provided in a tape cartridge, and other guiding
30 elements in the device. In general, guiding elements for the tapes may be provided in
   the device, or they may be provided in the tape cartridge, or some guiding elements
   may be provided in the device and others in the tape cartridge.
                                                   60

           Driving the first and the second tape may be performed indirectly, e.g. by
   driving the sandwich. In such an embodiment the one tape or the first or second tape
   are driven by driving the finished sandwich.
           In Fig. 39, station 40 is equipped to perform a stripping operation. The same
 5 station may also be equipped to perform any other process involved with preparing
   optical fibers. Hence, the same station may also be equipped to perform a cleaning
   operation on the optical fiber. Alternatively, another station may be provided in the
   device that performs a cleaning operation. An additional station may be provided
   that performs a cleaving operation. In subsequent steps, these stations may be
10 positioned at the location of the optical fiber (or, in another embodiment, the optical
   fiber may subsequently be positioned at the locations of the stations) so that the
   tapes may be used for evacuating debris from different operations, e.g. from a
   stripping operation and/or a cleaning operation and/or a cleaving operation.
           In one embodiment, a cleaning operation is performed to clean the stripped
15 optical fiber from possibly remaining coating residues and/or processing fluids such
   as oils used during the production process of the fiber. The cleaning operation may
   be performed in the stripping unit: an additional amount of tape can be used to clean
   the fiber between the heaters 551, 552, e.g. by moving the heaters again along the
   fiber, as in the stripping process. This is dry cleaning. In case the tape is used for
20 cleaning, the adhesive tape may contain zones, e.g. of 10 mm, that are non-adhesive;
   these zones may then be used for cleaning. In another embodiment, additionally a
   small amount of isopropyl alcohol is used; for each cleaning action, such an amount
   can be dispensed on the tape. This is called wet cleaning. In any embodiment
   including cleaning a tape sandwich may be used to trap any waste materials
25 recovered from the cleaning operation.
           Fig. 43 and Figs. 44a and 44b illustrate embodiments wherein the tapes 511,
   512 are guided in a direction perpendicular to the direction of the longitudinal axis
   of the optical fiber.
           Figs. 46a to 46e schematically show an embodiment of a stripping operation
30 in a direction parallel to the axis of the optical fiber, and the subsequent debris
   evacuation. In Fig. 46a, optical fiber 100 is inserted, in the direction of arrow 556,
   between the heaters 551 and 552 that are protected by tapes 511 and 512 (or by a
                                                  61

   single folded tape). The heaters 551 and 552 are moved towards each other, in the
   direction of arrows 558, as shown in Fig. 46b, and the coating of the optical fiber is
   heated (Fig. 46c). Subsequently, the optical fiber is pulled out by suitable pulling
   means, in the direction of arrow 557 (Figs. 46c and 46d), leaving the stripped-off
 5 coating as debris 541 between the tapes (or tape). Instead of pulling the optical fiber
   out, the heaters 551, 552 may be moved in the direction opposite to the direction of
   arrow 557; only a relative movement is required. Then, heaters 551 and 552 are
   moved away from each other, in the direction of arrows 559 (Fig. 46d), and finally
   the tapes 511 and 512 (or single folded tape) are moved in the direction of arrow
10 563, thus evacuating the debris 541.
           Fig. 48 schematically shows an embodiment of a tape cartridge 70 wherein
   the tapes 511, 512 (or tape (not shown)) are guided in a direction parallel to the axis
   of the optical fiber 100. The first tape is supplied on a first tape roller 514, and the
   second tape 521 is supplied on a second tape roller 524. Tape 511 is guided by a
15 small guide roller 513 along the first heater 551 and then by driven guide roller 513,
   while tape 512 is guided by small guide roller 523 along second heater 552 and by
   driven guide roller 523. Heaters 551 and 552 preferably do not form part of the tape
   cartridge, but are part of the device wherein the tape cartridge 70 is inserted
   (inserting the tape cartridge 70 into the device may e.g. be done in the direction
20 perpendicular to the plane of the drawing). The coating is now stripped as discussed
   with reference to Figs. 46a to 46e, and sandwich 531 is evacuated by pushing it (by
   the driven guide rollers) into compartment 535, that is preferably designed so as to
   allow efficient stacking of the evacuated sandwich 531. In another embodiment,
   there is no evacuation compartment 535, but sandwich 531 is evacuated through an
25 evacuation opening in the tape cartridge, and cut into strips having e.g. a length of
    10 cm, so that these strips fall on the ground when the device is operated.
   Afterwards, the operator of the device collects the strips as waste.
           In all embodiments described above, the first and the second tape can also be
   identical. The single tape may be guided around the optical fiber so that it forms a
30 wrap, like illustrated in Fig. 38b, and that the debris is caught between two portions
   of the single tape facing each other and forming a sandwich. The single tape which
   is guided around the optical fiber then can be used as protective means when use a
                                                  62

   heater.
           Fig. 49a, 49b and 49c illustrate a first tape arrangement for use with a station
   where the optical fiber comprises or generates debris, e.g. with or after a debris
   forming station in accordance with an embodiment. For example, one tape 511 can
 5 be used so that the optical fiber is inserted between two folded portions of the one
   tape 511. The station is adapted to form a tape sandwich, whereby the sandwich is
   formed by folding two portions of one tape 511 around the tape's longitudinal axis.
   To achieve this, the tape resides between two clamps 551, 552 so that it folds over
   on itself longitudinally to thereby form a sandwich. The folding is initiated just as
10 the tape enters between the two clamps, at the same position where the fiber is being
   engaged and drawn into the tape sandwich and between the two pads. Preferably, the
   optical fiber is guided in a direction 561 by a drawing motion, between the tape, in a
   form of a tape sandwich, whereby the drawing motion is provided by a difference
   between the movement velocity of the tape and an insertion velocity of the fiber.
15 The movement speed of the tape is higher than the insertion speed of the fiber which
   typically is between 5 to 20 mm/s more specifically 10 mm/s. In preferred
   embodiments the movement speed of the tape is 5-10% higher than the insertion
   speed of the optical fiber. As a result of the difference in velocity the optical fiber is
   drawn in the center of tape, i.e. the fiber is aligned such that eccentricity is prevented
20 of the optical fiber with respect to both horizontal and vertical axis.
           In all embodiments described above, the first and the second tape can also be
   identical. The single tape may be guided around the optical fiber which is inserted
   such that it forms a wrap, like illustrated in Fig. 49b, and that the debris is caught
   between two portions of the single tape facing each other and forming a sandwich.
25 The single tape which is guided around the optical fiber then can be used a
   protective means as protective means when use a heater. In embodiments of the
   portable device, the revolver head is rotated to bring, e.g. under control of a control
   unit and software, a next station to the optical fiber, for performing a next operation
   on the optical fiber.
30         In one embodiment, the next operation can be a cleaning operation to clean
   the stripped optical fiber from possibly remaining coating residues or processing
   fluids such as oils used during the production process of the fiber. In some
                                                    63

   embodiments, the cleaning operation can be performed in the stripping unit: an
   additional amount of tape can be used to clean the fiber between the heated stripping
   clamps, e.g. by moving the heated clamps again along the fiber, as in the stripping
   process. This is dry cleaning. In case the tape is used for cleaning, the adhesive tape
 5 may contain zones, e.g. of 10 mm, that are non-adhesive; these zones may then be
   used for cleaning. In another embodiment, additionally a small amount of isopropyl
   alcohol is used; for each cleaning action, such an amount can be dispensed on the
   tape (wet cleaning).
            Subsequently, a tensile test may be performed. The object of the tensile test
10 is to check that the fiber can withstand a specific force. If e.g. the fiber surface was
   damaged, the pulling force will cause a stress concentration at the location of the
   damage, and the fiber will break. In a particular embodiment, pre-tensioning of the
   fiber at the tensile test and cleaving is performed in the same station; by the same
   actuator and using the same clamp (preferably a flat clamp). In one embodiment, the
15 tensile force for the tensile test is about 5 N, while the tensile force during cleaving
   is in the range from 1.2 to 1.5 N. Further, in one embodiment the cleaving angle is
   8' (this is the angle between the cleaving plane and a plane perpendicular to the
   optical fiber axis). The fiber may be cleaved at a length of 21 mm, so that 21 mm of
   bare fiber (fiber without coating, only the core and the cladding) remains.
20          The cleaving principle may be the same as in the RCAT-tool, mentioned
   above.
            Another operation in another station may be a heat treatment, such as an arc
   treatment, performed on an end face of the bare end of the optical fiber. This is
   illustrated in Fig. 53. After stripping the optical fiber 100, a bare end 104 of the
25 optical fiber (without any coating, only the core and the cladding) remains. In heat
   treatment station 50, the end face 105 of the bare end of the optical fiber is subjected
   to a heat treatment, e.g. an arc treatment. An advantage of such a heat treatment is
   that for connectors with an optical fiber treated this way a large number of
   connections and disconnections is possible without significant deterioration of the
30 quality of the optical connection, when compared to non-heat treated fiber
   connectors. Another advantage of the heat treatment is that the connection has low
   insertion losses.
                                                   64

            In Fig. 53 the end face 105 of a cleaved bare end 104 of an optical fiber 100
   is shown when inserted in an electric arc device 50, between the cathode 51 and the
   anode 52. In a preferred embodiment, the anode and the cathode have a separation
   distance in the range from 1.5 mm to 4 mm, for optimal arc stability. After the fiber
 5 end is inserted in the electric arc device, an arc 53 is generated of sufficient
   temperature to essentially melt or soften the fiber end slightly. Typically, the
   temperature of such an electric arc is in the range from 1200 to 1800 'C. In an
   embodiment, the electric arc duration is in the range from 120 ms to 280 ms,
   preferably in the range from 150 ms to 250 ms. Other settings for the electric arc
10 may be a voltage of typically 6kV, and a current e.g. in the range from 0.35 to 0.45
   A rms with a frequency of 125 kHz.
            Instead of an electric arc, another type of low power heat treatment can be
   applied to the end face 105 of the bare end of the optical fiber. The heat treatment
   can also be laser heating as a result of laser irradiation or another heat treatment as
15 known in the art. Power consumption is preferably low enough, i.e. comparable to
   that of an electric arc, so that the heat treatment can be incorporated in the portable
   tool. The irradiation can be applied under different angles and positions as well, for
   instance frontally illuminating the fiber end face or illuminating the fiber end from
   the side. The laser can be operated in pulsed mode or in continuous mode; a laser
20 can be classified as operating in either continuous or pulsed mode depending on
   whether the power output is essentially continuous over time or whether its output
   takes the form of pulses of light on an appropriate time scale.
            In Figure 53 the end face 105 of a cleaved bare end 104 of an optical fiber
    100 is shown when inserted in an electric arc device 50, between the cathode 51 and
25 the anode 52. In one embodiment, the anode and the cathode have a separation
   distance in the range from 1.5 mm to 4 mm, for optimal arc stability. The separation
   distance may be 2 mm. After the fiber end is inserted in the electric arc device, an
   arc 53 is generated of sufficient temperature to essentially melt or soften the fiber
   end slightly. Typically, the temperature of such an electric arc is in the range from
30  1200 to 1800 'C. Preferably, both the core and the cladding are brought at least to
   the softening point, which is normally above 1500'C. In an embodiment, the electric
   arc duration is in the range from 120 ms to 280 ms, preferably in the range from 150
                                                   65

   ms to 250 ms. Other settings for the electric arc may be a voltage of typically 6kV,
   and a current e.g. in the range from 0.35 to 0.45 A rms with a frequency of 125 kHz.
   Instead of applying a single arc discharge, a plurality of consecutive arc discharges
   may be applied; this is interpreted in this document as being equivalent of a single
 5 arc discharge having a total duration equal to the sum of the durations of the
   individual consecutive arc discharges.
           The bare optical fiber end 104 may be cleaved perpendicularly. In a
   preferred embodiment, the fiber end 104 is cleaved by an angled cleaving. In one
   embodiment, the angle is in the range from 50 to 500. In another embodiment, the
10 angle is in the range from 5' to 15', and preferably in the range from 6' to 10', e.g.
   at 8'.
           Figure 54a qualitatively shows end faces 105 of mechanically cleaved optical
   fiber ends before applying a heat treatment. The edges 207 of the end faces 105 are
   sharp. These sharp edges can damage the alignment structure, such as a V-groove,
15 wherein the cleaved optical fiber is inserted. On the other hand, it is noted that a
   ferrule offers protection to the fiber from mechanical forces to which it may be
   subjected; without a ferrule, the forces acting directly on the fiber can be very high.
   In this case, the fiber is not protected by a ferrule, and the forces acting on the sharp
   edges 207 may be very high and may damage the fiber.
20         FIG. 54b shows optical fiber end faces 105 after the application of an electric
   arc treatment according to an embodiment of the invention. The edges 208 of the
   end faces are now rounded by the heat treatment. When inserting the fiber with
   rounded edges in an alignment structure, damage to the alignment structure is
   avoided, and the forces acting on the fiber are much smaller. Besides the rounding of
25 the edges 208, in some embodiments a raising of the central zone 209 of the end
   face around the axis of the optical fiber may be noted.
           Of course the method of the invention, which includes heat treatment of an
   end face of an optical fiber, is not necessarily limited to single fiber connectors. The
   invention may also include optical multi-fiber connectors having a plurality of
30 optical fibers, that may e.g. be arranged in an array, e.g. in one dimension (linear
   arrangement) or in two dimensions. An example of a multi-fiber connector is an
   MPO connector; an MPO connector may have e.g. twelve optical fibers.
                                                   66

           Embodiments of the present invention further include an optical fiber
   connector combination of two such optical fiber connectors (single fiber or multi
   fiber) and an adapter for connecting them.
           Embodiments of the present invention also include an optical fiber connector
 5 combination of two such optical fiber connectors, wherein the first optical fiber
   connector is a male connector and the second one is a female connector.
           After applying a specific electric arc end treatment to a bare optical fiber, its
   connecting/disconnecting characteristics improve drastically when compared to
   untreated bare optical fiber ends, as is illustrated in Figs. 55 and 56 for respectively
10 untreated and treated fibers. In Figs. 55 and 56, curves 221 show the return loss (RL)
   and curves 222 show the insertion loss (IL) of an optical fiber connection as a
   function    of  the    number     of    consecutive    connections/disconnections,     or
   matings/dematings. The data in Figure 55 were obtained in the following endurance
   test. Two bare optical fibers were mechanically cleaved. The optical fibers were
15 single mode fibers and had a core diameter of 9 pm and a cladding diameter of
    125 ptm. Unless noted otherwise, such single mode fibers were used for the tests and
   measurements discussed below. For the mechanical cleaving, an RCAT device
   (RECORDsplice Cleaver and Assembly Tool), as disclosed above, was used. The
   optical fibers were cleaved at an angle of 80. The fibers were then installed and
20 aligned in a RECORDsplice (as also discussed above). The first fiber was kept
   fixed, protruding with its end face halfway in the V-groove of the RECORDsplice,
   and the V-groove was filled with an index matching gel. The second fiber was
   reinstalled over and over again, against the first fiber, i.e. connected and
   disconnected. During the process, optical performance of the connection was
25 measured. As optical transmission signal, infrared having a wavelength of 1310 nm
   was used. This endurance test was done for several sets of two optical fibers. The
   results for one set are shown in Fig. 55. After several connections, as shown by
   curve 222 in Fig. 55, IL increased above 0.5 dB while RL, see curve 221, decreased
   to around 40 dB, indicating a failure in connectivity. Typically, for untreated fibers
30 IL increases above 0.5 dB and RL decreases below 40dB. After failure, a visual
   inspection of the fiber was performed using an optical microscope, and damage of
   the end face was observed. The experiment was repeated for sets of two fibers that
                                                   67

   were heat treated, by means of an arc discharge, in accordance with the invention,
   after the cleaving operation. With treated fibers, the mating/demating could be
   repeated tens of times, e.g. fifty times and more, even more than seventy times as
   shown in Figure 56, without significant influence on the quality of the optical fiber
 5 connection.
            In another test, the fracture strength of an untreated fiber was compared to
   that of a heat treated fiber in accordance with the invention. Samples were prepared
   and the fibers were mated to a sapphire optical flat, while the compression force was
   monitored. Samples that were cleaved and untreated had a failure load of generally
10 less than IN, while samples that were heat treated in accordance with the invention
   supported loads of ION without damage.
            To assess the failure mode of the optical fibers after the endurance tests
   described in connection to Figs. 55 and 56, the end face damages were investigated
   using Scanning Electron Miscroscope (SEM). Two batches of 15 samples each were
15 prepared. The first batch comprised untreated optical fibers that had failed at the
   endurance test, whereas the second batch comprised fibers that had been heat treated
   for 220 ms. Before the SEM observations, the samples were coated with a 40 nm
   gold cover in order to avoid charging processes during the measurements. Air spray
   and ethanol wiping were used to clean the fibers prior to metallization. No dust or
20 contaminants were observed on the coated fibers.
            Figs. 57 and 58 show SEM images of damaged, untreated optical fibers. The
   core region of the end face 10 is undamaged, while failure initiates at the cleaved
   edge 207. Failure in untreated fibers initiates at the edge 207 of the end face 105,
   where a portion of the cladding is chipped off. As is shown in Fig. 57, the damaged
25 area has sharp edges, indicating fast propagation of micro-cracks. On the other hand,
   the central region of the end face 105 containing the core appears undamaged.
   Further investigation of the cracks reveals the presence of fatigue grooves under the
   torn portion at the edge 207 of the end face 105, as shown in Fig. 58. Moreover,
   cleaving planes are visible on the damaged glass. All these features are typical of a
30 brittle failure mode induced by the presence of shear stress in the cladding of the
   optical fiber.
            When optical fibers are manufactured, they are drawn nowadays at speeds
                                                  68

   around 1 km/min and cooled from over 2000'C to room temperature in about one
   second. This allows for high yield production. However, a fast drawing process
   results in residual tensile stresses of the order of 10 MPa being frozen in the fiber.
   Typically, the residual stresses in the core and the residual stresses in the cladding
 5 have opposite signs: tensile stresses in the cladding and compressive stresses in the
   core.
           It has been found that the brittle fracture mode of the untreated optical fibers
   is caused by the presence of these frozen-in stresses.
           Figs. 59 and 60 show SEM images of heat treated optical fibers after the
10 connectivity test. Rupture appears to initiate in the internal part of the end face 105,
   whereas the edges 207 of the end face 105 are undamaged. No evidence of cleaving
   planes or micro-grooves was observed in the treated fibers, leading to the conclusion
   that the failure mode in treated fibers is not brittle.
           From the SEM measurements we conclude that there are two independent
15 effects of the heat treatment of the fiber's end face 105. On the one hand, the heat
   treatment, such as an arc discharge, acts on the edges 207 of the end face 105 by
   removing failure initiators. On the other hand, the treatment affects the glass itself
   by making it more resistant to fatigue.
           In order to rule out possible structural changes in the glass by the heat
20 treatment, micro-Raman spectroscopy was performed. No difference was observed
   between treated and untreated fibers.
           We therefore conclude that the improved endurance of the fiber can be
   explained by the effect of removing failure initiators on the one hand and
   substantially decreasing frozen-in viscoelastic stress in the fiber by the heat
25 treatment in accordance with the invention on the other hand.
            The removal of failure initiators by the heat treatment were further
   investigated by interferometric measurements of the end faces of untreated and
   treated fibers, on which no endurance test was performed. A white-light Mirau
   interferometer was used, coupled to high resolution microscope objectives. Two
30 microscope objectives were used: a 20x objective allowing for a spatial resolution of
   318 nm/pixel and a 100x objective allowing for a resolution of 75 nm/pixel. In both
   cases the vertical resolution was 3 nm. A second set of measurements was
                                                   69

   performed using a Michelson interferometer coupled to a microscope allowing for a
   spatial resolution     of 378 nm/pixel.     Interferometric   measurements   are non
   destructive, therefore allowing for the end face's assessment before and after the
   heat treatment. Both angled (80) and flat (00) cleaves were measured. Typical results
 5 are shown in Figs. 61a and 61b.
           On an untreated cleaved fiber we observed that, although the central region
   of the fiber is very smooth - leading to good optical performance - the edges of the
   end face are highly irregular. Fig. 61a shows details of an untreated cleaved fiber.
   Hackles are apparent at the cleaved edge 207 of the end face 105. These hackles can
10 act as a crack-initiator, limiting the endurance of the fiber. The same fiber was heat
   treated with an arc discharge for 220 ms. The detail of the treated surface is shown
   in Fig. 61b. The arc discharge was performed between two tungsten electrodes that
   were 2 mm apart. The fiber end was positioned symmetrically between the two
   electrodes, i.e. at a distance of 1 mm from each electrode. The current was I   = 0.42
15 A rms, at a frequency of 125 kHz (the current was measured using a current
   transformer). As shown in Fig. 61b, after electric arc treatment, the fiber's end face
    10 appears smoother as hackles and other defects are annealed. Edge 208 of end face
    105 is now rounded. The resolution of the images in Figs. 61a and 61b is 75
   nm/pixel. The vertical resolution is 3 nm. The surface roughness in the hackle zone
20 decreased from Rq      = 56.9 nm in Fig. 61a to Rq   = 21.5 nm in Fig. 61b, after the
   treatment. The surface roughness of the whole outside surface was assessed, and the
   treatment led to an improvement in roughness from Rq      = 246nm for untreated fibers
   to 210 nm after the treatment.
           The treatment affects the global shape of the end face. Fig. 62 shows a cross
25 section 223 of an untreated, 00 cleaved fiber and the cross section 224 of the same
   fiber after electric arc treatment. The cross sections were obtained by the same
   interferometric measurements as discussed above in connection with Figs. 61a and
   61b. The treatment clearly modifies the shape of the end face by introducing a
   curvature. The curved surface is caused by relaxation, because of the heat treatment,
30 of the stress frozen in during the drawing process.
           Using a 100x magnification objective, we investigated the central area of the
   cleaved end faces. A typical cross section of a Corning SMF-28 fiber, arc treated for
                                                  70

   220 ms (at I= 0.42 A) is shown in Fig. 11 a. From the measurement data 225 it is
   clear that the cladding and the core have a different curvature. To determine the
   curvature of the cladding and the curvature of the core, we found that a quadratic fit
   gives very good results, as shown in Fig. 63a. Curve 226 represents the quadratic fit
 5 of the cladding and curve 227 is the quadratic fit of the core. In this document, the
   curvature of the cladding and the curvature of the core are defined as the values
   determined from a quadratic fit, and the radiuses are the reciprocal of these
   curvatures. For the treated fiber in Fig. 63a, this yields a curvature of the cladding of
   0.6 mm-1 (and a corresponding radius of 1.67 mm), and a curvature of 2.55 mm-1 of
10 the core. Further, we note that the core slightly protrudes from the cladding; the
   protrusion is about 60 nm.
            The dependence of the curvatures of the core and of the cladding has been
   investigated as a function of the duration of the treatment (at constant arc current I  =
   0.42 A rms at a frequency of 125 kHz). Fig. 63b shows the curvature 231 of the
15 cladding and the curvature 232 of the core as a function of the duration of the arc
   treatment. We observe a threshold-like behavior of the curvature as the duration of
   the treatment is increased. Samples that are treated for less than about 150ms do not
   show curvature. This means that not enough energy was input into the fiber to
   initiate the effect. Since only the treatment duration was varied, the energy input into
20 the fiber is proportional to the duration of the treatment. There is a threshold value
   of the amount of energy, input by the heat treatment, below which the fiber does not
   become viscous enough. As soon as the amount of energy is high enough, the fiber
   end becomes viscous and relaxation occurs of the stress frozen in during the fiber
   drawing process; this stress relaxation results in curvature of the end face. From Fig.
25 63b it can be seen that the cladding curvature 231 and also the core curvature 232
   are representative for the duration of the treatment, and hence for the amount of
   energy transferred to the fiber. Fig. 63b shows that above 150 ms, the cladding
   curvature 231 and the core curvature 232 increase nearly linearly with increasing
   treatment duration. For all treatment durations, the core curvature is consistently
30 larger than the curvature of the cladding (remark: the minus sign for the curvature
   values in Fig. 63b is of no importance; it is simply a matter of convex/concave
   curvature in this particular case).
                                                   71

           In order to assess the effect of the treatment on optical fibers from different
   manufacturers, we performed the treatment on fibers from Corning, Jena and OFS
   which are well established suppliers of optical fibers for the telecom market. Fig.
   63c shows the measured curvature 231 of the cladding of these fibers as a function
 5 of the duration of the treatment. The measurement results reveal that the effect of the
   treatment is consistent among manufacturers.
           In a similar way to the curvature, the protrusion of the optical fiber core
   exhibits a threshold-like behavior. For treatment durations below 180 ms, core
   protrusion is not observed, whereas it increases linearly up to about 100 nm for
10 fibers treated at 260 ms. We conclude that the protrusion is a result of the relaxation
   of the viscoelastic compressive stress frozen in the core. As measured in "Residual
   stress profiles in optical fibers determined by the two-waveplate-compensator
   method," Opt. Commun. Vol. 265, pp. 29-32, 2006, C. C. Montarou, T. K. Gaylord,
   and A. I. Dachevski, a compressive stress of approximately 10 MPa is present in the
15 core after the drawing process. We have found that a length of approximately L
   =  0.5 mm of the fiber's core is heated above the stress annealing point in the heat
   treatment. The protrusion can therefore be quantified as:
                   AL   = L*stress/E = 68 nm
20
   wherein "stress"   =  10 MPa and with E   = 73 GPa the modulus of elasticity of SiO 2.
   This value of the protrusion is consistent with our interferometric measurements,
   thus confirming that stress relaxation is the cause of the protrusion. The increase of
   the protrusion with the duration of the treatment is explained by the fact that a larger
25 portion of the fiber reaches the stress annealing point with increased treatment
   duration.
           That the core protrudes slightly from the cladding is an advantage, since it
   enhances contact of the two fibers in a connection between two connectors in
   accordance with the invention. In laser cutting and polishing of the fiber end face as
30 disclosed in US 6963687, mentioned already above, no protrusion of the core
   occurs. We showed that the core sinks in the cladding, on the contrary.
           From our experiments, we conclude that, in order to obtain a high number of
                                                  72

   matings and dematings, the radius of curvature of the cladding at the end face of the
   fiber is preferably in the range from 0.4 mm to 4 mm, more preferably in the range
   from 0.6 mm to 3 mm. The radius of curvature of the core at the end face of the fiber
   is preferably in the range from 0.14 mm to 4 mm, more preferably in the range from
 5 0.2 mm to 3 mm.
           Thus, we have found that the number of matings and dematings, while still
   allowing for a very good connection quality, increases very substantially by a heat
   treatment in accordance with the invention. We investigated by which specific heat
   treatment this desired result can be obtained. Therefore, we investigated the causes
10 of failure after mating/demating. We found that an important cause of failure of the
   fiber is frozen-in stress. To decrease the frozen-in stress within acceptable limits, a
   specific amount of energy has to be transferred to the fiber. We found a.o. that the
   cladding curvature (or cladding radius) of the treated fiber is representative for the
   transferred amount of energy, and that a connector having a cladding radius within a
15 particular range can thus endure a high number of matings and dematings.
           Hereinbefore, a method in accordance with an embodiment of the invention
   was disclosed for connecting a first optical fiber connector having a bare end, the
   bare end being mechanically cleaved and having a heat treated end face in
   accordance with the invention, to a ferruled optical fiber via a converter. It was
20 disclosed that the converter may comprise a special transition element.
           In general, a converter as illustrated e.g. in Figure 64 may be used to connect
   a ferrule-less fiber connector to a ferruled fiber connector, wherein the converter
   may comprise a special transition element or not. The ferrule-less optical fiber
   connector may be a connector in accordance with the invention, or in general just a
25 ferrule-less optical fiber connector. Figure 64 shows a ferrule based SC-connector
   213 that is connected via a standard SC-connector 214 to a ferrule-less connector
   212 via a converter module 211.
           A similar but different solution to connect a ferruled connector to a ferrule
   less connector is illustrated in Figure 65. Figure 65 shows an adapter with integrated
30 converter 216, which is used to connect a ferrule based LC connector 215 with a
   ferrule-less connector 217. The adapter with integrated converter 216 shown in
   Figure 213 can be used to connect two sets of optical fiber connectors.
                                                   73

           Fig. 66 is a flowchart of an embodiment of a method in accordance with the
   invention, wherein a bare end of an optical fiber is mechanically cleaved 240, thus
   obtaining an end face of the bare end, and heat treated 241.
           Preferably before attaching a connector to the fiber, the fiber end may be
 5 inspected by means of an inspection station, e.g. actuated in the revolver head. The
   inspection station can detect various types of fiber defects that would impair the
   performance when attaching to a connector. In addition, verification of the fiber
   cleave angle may be performed in the inspection station. In the fiber inspection
   station the quality of the fiber can be verified using either non-imaging based
10 detection concepts, e.g. by means of a photo-detector, or imaging based detection
   concepts, such as cameras.
           If inspection reveals that the quality of the optical fiber was unsatisfactory, a
   redo, i.e. repeating the operations performed on the optical fiber, is possible. This
   may require an additional 25 mm of fiber. A redo may also be performed if the
15 tensile test failed.
           In an embodiment, the tool gives feedback of the result of the inspection to
   the operator. The tool may have a touch screen as a user interface. The tool may
   have a read-out port to read control information. Further, the tool may have a
   specialist mode in which more detailed information concerning the tool is given to
20 the user. Placing a connector and attaching it to the optical fiber may be done as
   follows, in connector attachment station 30. In one embodiment, the connector
   comprises two parts: an inner part, or "engine", and an outer housing.
   Fig. 26 illustrates an embodiment of a method in accordance with the invention,
   wherein the fiber attachment element 303 is located in the attachment position 372
25 with respect to the connector body 302 of connector 110. A heat shrink tube 205 is
   already in place.
           Further, in a another embodiment a receiving end of the optical fiber
   connector 110 can have a pre-alignment element 400, which is illustrated in Fig.27 a
   conical opening for receiving the bare end 104 of the optical fiber. At the other end
30 of the device 110, a ferrule may be provided with a V-groove in a channel, to
   receive a fiber stub in the V-groove.
           In Fig. 28, optical fiber 100 is inserted in the fiber attachment element 303,
                                                  74

   and in Fig. 29 heat shrink tube 305 is shrunk over optical fiber 100 and fiber
   attachment element 303, in the attachment position 372.
            In Fig. 30, the fiber attachment element is shown after moving it to the
   functional position 373, which may, as discussed above, coincide with the
 5 preliminary position 371. Figures 27 to 31 show embodiments of the invention when
   applied to a connector for a ferrule-less system. The bare end 104 of the optical fiber
    100 is protected by connector 1 and may now be connected to another optical
   device, e.g. to another optical connector.
            In Fig. 31, a boot 306 was attached to the connector over the coated optical
10 fiber, to provide strain and bend relief.
            An advantage of applying a thermoformable material 305 in the attachment
   position 372, wherein the fiber attachment element 303 is outside of the connector
   body 302, is that one or more materials 325, as illustrated in Fig. 27, may be used
   for the connector body 302, e.g. thermoplastic materials, that have a weakening
15 temperature that is lower than the processing temperature, e.g. 120 'C, at which the
   thermoformable material is applied.
            According to a further aspect of the disclosure, a device is provided for
   attaching the optical fiber 100 to the optical fiber connector 110. The device may
   comprise means for receiving the optical fiber connector 110 and the optical fiber
20  100, means for attaching the optical fiber to the fiber attachment element, and
   moving means for moving the fiber attachment element between different positions.
   These moving means, which may comprise a gripper and e.g. an electric motor, are
   adapted for moving the fiber attachment element 303 from the attachment position,
   wherein the optical fiber is attached to the fiber attachment element and wherein the
25 fiber attachment element is outside of the connector body, to the functional position
   wherein the fiber attachment element is inside the connector body. In an
   embodiment, the moving means are also adapted for moving the fiber attachment
   element from its preliminary position inside the connector body to the attachment
   position. In a preferred embodiment the attachment includes application of a
30 thermoformable material, as discussed above. The means for attaching may then
   include one or more means for heating the thermoformable material.
            Figs. 32a-32c schematically show a cross-section, along the direction of the
                                                  75

   longitudinal axis of an optical fiber, of an embodiment in accordance with the
   invention. An optical connector 110 comprises a connector body 302 and a fiber
   attachment element 303 that is surrounded by the connector body 302. The
   connector body 302 has an interface end 105.
 5          An optical fiber 60 is inserted in the connector 110. A heat-recoverable
   element, which is in the shown embodiment a heat shrink tube 305, surrounds the
   optical fiber 100 and the fiber attachment element 303. The heat shrink tube 305,
   when recovered, holds or presses the optical fiber against the fiber attachment
   element 303, and thus retains the optical fiber 100 to the fiber attachment element
10 303. The optical fiber 100 has a bare portion 104 and a coating, or coated, i.e. non
   stripped portion, 362.
            The fiber attachment element 303 preferably has a stepped configuration
   with a first platform that is offset in height from a second platform by a distance
   generally equal to a thickness of the secondary coating of the optical fiber. The
15 coated portion of the optical fiber is bonded to the first platform and the bare glass
   portion of the optical fiber is bonded to the second platform. The first platform can
   include a channel sized for receiving the coated portion of the optical fiber and the
   second platform can include a channel sized for receiving the bare fiber portion of
   the optical fiber.
20          In the embodiment shown in Fig. 32a and Fig. 35a, the fiber is attached to
   the fiber attachment element 303 by using a heat shrink tube 305, and the fiber
   attachment element has a first portion 331 for contact with a bare portion of an
   optical fiber and a second portion 332 for contact with a coated portion of an optical
   fiber. The fiber attachment element 303 can be pressed, snapped, welded, glued or
25 co-injected with an intermediate element e.g. a shielding. In addition, the fiber
   attachment element 303 and the so called intermediate element can even be one
   single element. This intermediate element is preferably mounted into a connector
   body 110.
            The first portion 331 has a first cross-sectional area CS1, as illustrated in Fig.
30 4a, which shows a cross-sectional view perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of
   the optical fiber. The second portion 332 has a second cross-sectional area CS2 as
   illustrated in Fig. 35b. In the shown embodiment, the first cross-sectional area (CS 1)
                                                    76

   is larger than the second cross-sectional area (CS2). On the other hand in the first
   portion 31 the combined cross-sectional area (CS3) of the fiber attachment element
   together with the cross-sectional area of the bare optical fiber 61 (see fig. 35c) is
   smaller than the combined cross-sectional area (CS4) of the fiber attachment
 5 element in the second portion 332 and a coated portion of the optical fiber 362 see
   fig. 35d). The dimensional properties of the fiber attachment element for an
   unattached optical fiber remain similar as illustrated in Fig. 3a-3d.
           Additionally, a hot melt material may be applied to the optical fiber and to
   the fiber attachment element, before the application of the thermoformable material
10 such as heat-recoverable element. In one embodiment, the thermoformable material
   such as heat-recoverable element, e.g. a heat shrink tube, comprises a hot melt
   material within or on its inner surface so that the hot melt material melts when the
   heat shrink tube is heated, or "activated".
           In the embodiment discussed with reference to Fig. 32a, after activation of
15 the thermoformable material such as heat-recoverable element is completed, the bare
   portion 104 of the optical fiber is fixed with respect to the coating 362. Moreover,
   the bare portion 104 is fixed with respect to the fiber attachment element 303. The
   fiber attachment element itself is fixed with respect to the connector (in a way not
   shown but as known in the art). Preferably, heat shrink tube 305 has a hot melt
20 material on its inner surface which improves the fiber fixation.
           In this embodiment, fiber grow out is prevented, by the fixation of the bare
   portion 61 of the optical fiber with respect to the coating 362.
           The use of fiber attachment element 303 improves fiber fixation appreciably,
   for fixation of the bare portion with respect to the coating, and for fixation of the
25 bare portion with respect to the connector.
            The end of the fiber attachment element at the side where the optical fiber is
   to be inserted may be rounded, to improve insertion.
           We have found that fiber grow out cannot be prevented by using only a heat
   shrink tube and hot melt material.
30         Further, it has been found that a single kit of a heat shrink tube (preferably
   provided with hot melt) and a fiber attachment element is sufficient to provide fiber
   fixation for optical fibers that have a cladding diameter of 125 pm and a coating
                                                  77

   diameter, i.e. the diameter of the buffer or secondary coating, in the range of 250 to
    1100 tm. The whole range of coatings for different types of optical fibers, from 250
   pm to 1100 tm, can thus be covered by a single kit. No different kits have to be
   prepared for optical fibers with small coatings and optical fibers with large coatings.
 5 Fig. 32b schematically shows a cross section, along the direction of the longitudinal
   axis of an optical fiber, of a connector body according to an embodiment in
   accordance with the invention, whereby an optical fiber 100 having a coating
   diameter smaller than 900 tm, more specifically 250 tm, is attached to a fiber
   attachment element 303 that is surrounded by the connector body 302. As illustrated,
10 the bare portion of the optical fiber is given a very slight bend after attaching the
   optical fiber to the fiber attachment element, however practical testing showed that
   the bend in the 250ptm fiber does not cause any optical losses, and aging does not
   cause the fiber to break. Fig. 36c schematically shows a cross section, along the
   direction of the longitudinal axis of an optical fiber, of a connector body according
15 to an embodiment in accordance with the invention, whereby an optical fiber
    100having a coating bigger than 900 tm, more specifically 1100 tm, is attached to a
   fiber attachment element 303 that is surrounded by the connector body 302. Again
   by applying a method according to embodiments of the present invention, bending
   of the bare portion of the optical fiber occurs, but tests showed that the bend in the
20  1100 pm does not cause any optical losses as well.
           An example of such a kit is as follows:
   - a fiber attachment element preferably made from a metal, more specifically
   Aluminum 6061-T6 clear anodized, Aluminum 2024-T4 clear anodized or Xyloy
   M950     or   it can   be   made    from   a  thermoplastic    material,  for  instance
25 Polyphenylsulfone, more specifically Radel R5100 or Valox 420SEO. The fiber
   attachment element preferably has an outside diameter between 0,9 and 1,2 mm
   resulting in a cross-sectional area between 0,6 and 1,2 mm 2 .
   - a heat shrink tube preferably made from or comprising two materials, whereby one
   material is used for the outer surface of the heat shrink tube and preferably another
30 material for its inner surface, an first example can be a 513-X (MT-LWA)
   compound on the outer surface together with a DWR 9763 (Lucalen A2920)
   compound as inner surface, a second example can be a 521-X (RNF100A)
                                                 78

   compound on the outer surface together with a 463-N (TAT-125 Adhesive)
   compound as inner surface, a third example can be a 521-X (RNF100A) compound
   on the outer surface together with a DWR 9763 (Lucalen A2920) compound as inner
   surface, a fourth example can be a polyethylene compound jacket type 513 on the
 5 outer surface together with a tackified ethylene-butyl acrylate adhesive as inner
   surface, for instance DWR9940, can also be used,
   -the dimensions of a heat shrink tube are preferably a length between 10 and 15 mm,
   an outside diameter 2.6 mm, a wall thickness of 0.25 mm, and a 4/1 shrink ratio (i.e.
   the heat shrink tube would shrink to 2.6/4 mm      =  0.525 mm if it could shrink freely).
10         Another     advantage     of some embodiments        of the    invention is that
   contamination is avoided or at least appreciably reduced. All parts, such as the fiber
   attachment element and the thermoformable material e.g. heat-recoverable element,
   may already be present in the connector body, e.g. by pre-assembly under factory
   conditions, so that in the field only the optical fiber has to be inserted in the
15 connector.
           Another advantage of some embodiments of the invention is that no tension,
   or only very little tension, is exerted on the fiber, as opposed to e.g. mechanical
   attachment methods that use e.g. a wedge; this absence of substantial tension level
   results in good optical properties of light transmission through the fiber, such as low
20 insertion loss and low modal noise.
           Further, the attachment method is easily automated; all that has to be done in
   the field is to activate, e.g. by heating, the heat-recoverable element.
           Fig. 33 shows a 3D view, cut in half, of an embodiment of a fiber attachment
   element 303. The first portion 331 and the second portion 332 of the fiber
25 attachment element are shown. A heat shrink tube 305 surrounds the fiber
   attachment element 303. The connector body 302 comprises stopping elements 340,
   whereby the stopping elements 340 preferably abut the first portion 331 heat shrink
   tube 305. Advantageously when attaching the heat shrink tube to the optical fiber,
   the stopping elements prevent any shift of the heat shrink tube along the longitudinal
30 direction of the optical fiber.
           Fig. 31 shows an embodiment of an optical fiber connector 110 wherein an
   optical fiber 100 is attached. The connector body 302 and the fiber attachment
                                                    79

   element 303 are also shown. The connector is preferably a "ferrule-less" connector
   where an end portion of the optical fiber is not supported by a ferrule (i.e., the end
   portion of the optical fiber is unsupported). In certain embodiments, the unsupported
   end portion of the optical fiber is bare glass and includes only a glass core
 5 surrounded by glass cladding. In certain embodiments, the optical fiber is secured
   within a connector body (i.e., a connector housing) having an interface end. The
   connector can have a first configuration where the unsupported end portion is
   enclosed and protected within the connector body. The connector also can have a
   second configuration where an endface of the unsupported end portion can be
10 accessed at the interface end of the connector body for optical connection to another
   optical fiber. In certain embodiments, the connector can include a protective cover
   that is movable relative to the connector body between a first position where the
   unsupported end portion of the optical fiber is enclosed within the connector body
   and protected from contamination, and a second position where the end face of the
15 unsupported end portion of the optical fiber can be accessed for optical connection
   to another optical fiber. An adhesive can be used to adhesively affix/bond both the
   bare glass and a secondary coating of the optical fiber to an attachment structure
   within the connector body. In this way, the optical fiber is axially anchored at a
   desired position within the connector body and the bare glass of the optical fiber is
20 axially anchored relative to the secondary coating. The adhesive can be a heat
   activated adhesive.
            In some embodiments the minimum length of the unsupported end portion of
   the optical fiber if preferably between 10-15 mm..
            Figs. 36a to 36e schematically show subsequent stages wherein heat is
25 transferred by a device 410 to a heat recoverable material 305. The device 410
   illustrated in Fig. 36a comprises a heat distributor 411 and a heat shrink tube 305.
   The heat distributor 411 includes a heat conducting portion 412 that has an outer
   surface 413, and that has two localized heating portions 414 on this outer surface
   413. At least one of the localized heating portion 414 is heated by a heat source 430,
30 which is represented in Figs. 36a-36e by the symbol for an electrical resistance. Heat
   is transferred from the heated localized heating portion 414 through the heat
   conducting portion 412 in the direction of arrow 61 in Fig. 36b. Heat recoverable
                                                  80

   material 305 is surrounded by heat conducting portion 412. In Fig. 36a, it is in cavity
   415 of the heat distributor 411. The heat recoverable material, which is a heat shrink
   tube 420 in the embodiment of Fig. 36a, is gradually heated by heat distributor 411.
   Heat shrink tube 420 first shrinks where the heat is applied, i.e. at the location of the
 5 heated localized heating portion 414. The shrink front then propagates, as shown in
   Figs. 36b to 36e, in the direction of arrow 461, as heat is transferred through the heat
   conducting portion 412. Fig. 36e shows the completely shrunk heat shrink tube. The
   heat shrink tube 420 is adapted for receiving at least one element 100, the heat
   shrink tube is then shrunk around these element(s) and a pre-installed or pre
10 assembled element such as a fiber attachment element 303 (see Fig. 37).
           The location where shrinking will start is known. In the embodiment of Figs.
   36a-36e, the dimensions, especially the thickness, and the thermal properties, such
   as the thermal conductivity and the thermal capacity, of the heat conducting portion
   412 are such, and the dimensions and the physical properties of the heat shrink tube
15 305 are such that the heat front propagates through the heat conducting portion 412
   and is followed by the shrink front which propagates through the heat shrink tube
   305. In this way, no air is entrapped between the heat shrink tube 305 and the
   element or elements that are received in the heat shrink tube 305 to be assembled by
   it.
20         Moreover, no expensive oven is required, and certainly not an oven with
   dedicated heating zones, with a dedicated heater and control unit for each zone.
           As a heating source 430, infrared radiation or another source of radiation
   heating may be used. Convection heating may be used as well, or another heating
   means as known in the art. Preferably, heat is transferred by conduction from heat
25 source 430 to localized heating portion 414. Preferably, localized heating portion
   414 is adapted for physically contacting heat source 430. Heat source 430 may
   comprise an electrical resistor. A combination of these heating means may also be
   used.
           The device shown in Figs. 36a to 36e has two localized heating portions 414,
30 of which a single one is heated. Both localized heating portions may be heated. The
   device may have a single localized heating portion. The device may have more than
   two localized heating portions.
                                                 81

           The heat distributor may have a cylindrical            shape.   In a preferred
   embodiment, the heat distributor 412 has a tubular shape, as shown in Figs. 36a-36e.
   The heat distributor may substantially be made of metal.
           The heat recoverable material may be a heat shrink tube. The heat
 5 recoverable material may be a heat shrink tape.
           Fig. 37 schematically shows an optical fiber connector 110, e.g. a field
   installable connector, that includes a device for assembly of parts. The connector in
   Fig. 37 is a ferrule-less connector that comprises an optical fiber 100 and a fiber
   attachment element 303, e.g. a pre-installed or pre-assembled fiber attachment
10 element 303, surrounded by a heat shrink tube 305, in a cavity 415 of the heat
   conducting portion 412 of heat distributor 411. The heat conduction portion can be
   cylindrical. The connector body 302 has an interface end 105 at which the end of the
   optical fiber can be exposed. The heat distributor 411 surrounds heat shrink tube 305
   and has two localized heating portions 414 on the outer surface of the heat
15 conducting portion 412. Each localized heating portion is accessible at a location
   456 in connector body 302 of optical fiber connector 110, which is in the shown
   embodiment an opening 456 in the connector body 302. Connector body 302
   protects the inside of the optical fiber connector 110 from the environment. When
   one or both localized heating portions 414 are heated, preferably by making physical
20 contact with a heater through opening 456, heat shrink tube 305 will start to shrink,
   as explained above with reference to Figs. 36a-36e. When the shrinking process is
   completed, optical fiber 100 is assembled to fiber attachment element 303 by heat
   shrink tube 305.
           The finished connector is preferably a "ferrule-less" connector where an end
25 portion of the optical fiber is not supported by a ferrule (i.e., the end portion of the
   optical fiber is unsupported). In certain embodiments, the unsupported end portion
   of the optical fiber is bare glass and includes only a glass core surrounded by glass
   cladding. In certain embodiments, the optical fiber is secured within a connector
   body (i.e., a connector housing) having an interface end. The connector can have a
30 first configuration where the unsupported end portion is enclosed and protected
   within the connector body. The connector also can have a second configuration
   where an endface of the unsupported end portion can be accessed at the interface
                                                 82

   end of the connector body for optical connection to another optical fiber. In certain
   embodiments, the connector can include a protective cover that is movable relative
   to the connector body between a first position where the unsupported end portion of
   the optical fiber is enclosed within the connector body and protected from
 5 contamination, and a second position where the end face of the unsupported end
   portion of the optical fiber can be accessed for optical connection to another optical
   fiber. An adhesive can be used to adhesively affix/bond both the bare glass and a
   secondary coating of the optical fiber to an attachment structure within the connector
   body. In this way, the optical fiber is axially anchored at a desired position within
10 the connector body and the bare glass of the optical fiber is axially anchored relative
   to the secondary coating. The adhesive can be a heat activated adhesive.
            The fiber attachment element preferably has a stepped configuration with a
   first platform that is offset in height from a second platform by a distance generally
   equal to a thickness of the secondary coating of the optical fiber. The coated portion
15 of the optical fiber is bonded to the first platform and the bare glass portion of the
   optical fiber is bonded to the second platform, e.g. by the heat shrink tube when
   recovered. The first platform can include a channel sized for receiving the coated
   portion of the optical fiber and the second platform can include a channel sized for
   receiving the bare fiber portion of the optical fiber. The fiber attachment element can
20 be pressed, snapped, welded, glued or co-injected with an intermediate element e.g.
   a shielding. In addition, the fiber attachment element and the so called intermediate
   element can even be one single element. This intermediate element is preferably
   mounted into a connector body.
            In some embodiments the minimum length of the unsupported end portion of
25 the optical fiber if preferably between 10-15 mm.
            In one example, a connector 110 as shown in Fig. 37 may have the following
   dimensions and material choices:
   - a heat distributing means having a tubular form comprising an outer diameter
   between 3 and 5 mm and an inner diameter between 2 and 4 mm, which can be
30 made from a metal, more specifically Aluminum 6061-T6 clear anodized,
   Aluminum 2024-T4 clear anodized or Xyloy M950.
   - each localized heating portion preferably has a surface area between 1 and 5 mm2 ,
                                                  83

   - a heat shrink tube preferably made from or comprising two materials, whereby one
   material is used for the outer surface of the heat shrink tube and preferably another
   material for its inner surface, a first example can be a 513-X (MT-LWA) compound
   on the outer surface together with a DWR 9763 (Lucalen A2920) compound as inner
 5 surface, a second example can be a 521-X (RNF100A) compound on the outer
   surface together with a 463-N (TAT-125 Adhesive) compound as inner surface, a
   third example can be a 521-X (RNF100A) compound on the outer surface together
   with a DWR 9763 (Lucalen A2920) compound as inner surface, a forth example can
   be a polyethylene compound jacket type 513 on the outer surface together with a
10 tackified ethylene-butyl acrylate adhesive as inner surface, for instance DWR9940,
   can also be used,
   - the heat shrink tube preferably has a length between 10 and 15 mm, an outside
   diameter 2.6 mm, a wall thickness of 0.25 mm, and a 4/1 shrink ratio (i.e. the heat
   shrink tube would shrink to 2.6/4 mm      = 0.525 mm if it could shrink freely).
15 optical fiber: cladding diameter 125 pm and coating diameter between 200ptm and
    1100 ptm.
           A temperature range between 120'C and 220'C is preferably applied when
   activating the heat shrink tube.
           This heat shrink tube is heated at a temperature in the range of 120 to 220
20 'C. An advantage of the present invention is that materials that do not resist to such
   temperatures may be used in the optical fiber connector 110, as the heat from the
   heat source is directly guided by the heat distributor 411 to the inside of the optical
   fiber connector 110 and to the heat recoverable material 305. For example, the outer
   housing 465 or rear body on Fig. 37, may be made from a thermoplastic material
25 such as PP or LDPE.
           Another advantage is that the connector may be pre-assembled in the factory,
   including e.g. the heat shrink tube, so that there are no loose small parts when
   attaching the connector to an optical fiber in the field.
           In an embodiment of the tool disclosed herein, a connector 110 (which may
30 comprise more than one part) is loaded from a connector cartridge 80. In case the
   connector comprises an engine and an outer housing, first the engine is attached to
   the optical fiber. This may be done via a heatshrink system, or, preferably a
                                                   84

   combination of a heat shrink and hot melt system. In one embodiment, the
   attachment is done as follows. Heat shrink and hot melt are heated to about 120 'C.
   Heat transfer from the heater to the heat shrink and the hot melt may be a
   combination of radiation and air conduction. Especially, the gap between the heater
 5 and heat shrink is kept as small as possible. The heater may consist of two halves
   wherein each half is separately heated. The heaters can be opened and heated to the
   right temperature before the connector engine is placed at the heating position. Then
   the heater is closed and the heat shrink and hot melt are heated to the correct
   temperature. The heat shrink provides strain relief to the fiber; this strain relief
10 system can bridge the gap between a 1000 pm coating diameter and a 125 pm
   cladding diameter. After fixation of the engine to the optical fiber, the outer housing
   is attached to the engine. The resulting length of the bare end of the optical fiber is
   preferably 8 mm.
            The connectors 110 may be supplied automatically by means of a connector
15 cartridge 80 which may comprise a carrier and small cartridges, each containing one
   connector. In one embodiment, the connector cartridge may contain 8 to 12
   connectors. The cartridges may be sealed with a thin foil, for example aluminum.
   The connectors are thus protected from dust, moisture and mechanical load. The
   connector parts may have a well defined orientation. It may be possible to exchange
20 the connector cartridge before it is empty. In one embodiment, the revolver head is
   provided with a knife which can cut and bend the foil of the cartridge in order for
   the connector feeder to pull in the connector from the cartridge into the revolver
   head without the risk of sticking.
           It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular
25 features of the means and/or the process steps of the methods described as such
   means and methods may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used
   herein is for purposes of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended
   to be limiting. It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended
   claims, the singular forms "a" "an" and "the" include singular and/or plural referents
30 unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is also to be understood that plural
   forms include singular and/or plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
   otherwise. It is moreover to be understood that, in case parameter ranges are given
                                                  85

   which are delimited by numeric values, the ranges are deemed to include these
   limitation values.
            The particular combinations of elements and features in the above detailed
   embodiments are exemplary only. As those skilled in the art will recognize,
 5 variations, modifications, and other implementations of what is described herein can
   occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the
   scope of the invention as claimed. Accordingly, the foregoing description is by way
   of example only and is not intended as limiting. The invention's scope is defined in
   the following claims and the equivalents thereto. Furthermore, reference signs used
10 in the description and claims do not limit the scope of the invention as claimed.
            Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
   and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or
   step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
15 group of integers or steps.
          The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
   derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as
   an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
   publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
20 common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
   relates.
                                                  86

CLAIMS
1.     An optical fiber connector, comprising:
       an optical fiber having a bare end, the bare end including an end face and further including
a core and a cladding surrounding the core;
       wherein the optical fiber connector is ferrule-less; a radius of curvature of the core is
smaller than a radius of curvature of the cladding; the radius of curvature of the core at the end
face is in a range from 0.14 millimeter to 4 millimeters; and the radius of curvature of the
cladding at the end face in a range from 0.4 millimeter to 4 millimeters.
2.     The optical fiber connector of claim 1, wherein the core protrudes from the cladding with a
protrusion height in a range from 10 to 200 nanometers.
3.     The optical fiber connector of claim 2, wherein the protrusion height is in a range from 10
nanometers to 150 nanometers.
4.     The optical fiber connector of claim 2, wherein the protrusion height is in a range from 30
nanometers to 60 nanometers.
5.     The optical fiber connector of claim 1, wherein the optical fiber has an axis and wherein
the end face makes an angle with respect to a plane perpendicular to the axis, wherein the angle
is in a range from 5' to 50'.
6.     The optical fiber connector of claim 5, wherein the angle is in a range from 5' to 15'.
7.     An optical fiber connector combination comprising the optical fiber connector of claim 1
as a first optical fiber connector and further as a second optical fiber connector, the optical fiber
connector combination further comprising an adapter for connecting the first and the second
optical fiber connectors.
8.     An optical fiber connector combination comprising the optical fiber connector of claim 1
as a first optical fiber connector and further as a second optical fiber connector, wherein the first
optical fiber connector is a male connector and the second optical fiber connector is a female
connector.
                                                   87

9.    A method of making an optical fiber connector, comprising:
      -mechanically cleaving a bare end of an optical fiber of the optical fiber connector thereby
obtaining an end face of the bare end, the optical fiber comprising a core and a cladding
surrounding the core; and
      - heat treating the end face to provide a radius of curvature of the core smaller than a radius
of curvature of the cladding at the end face,
      wherein the radius of curvature of the core at the end face is in a range from 0.14
millimeter to 4 millimeters; the radius of curvature of the cladding at the end face in a range from
0.4 millimeter to 4 millimeters; and the optical fiber connector is ferrule-less.
10.   The method of claim 9, wherein the heat treating is an electric arc treatment.
11.   The method of claim 10, further comprising applying the electric arc treatment during a
time period in a range from 120 ms to 280 ms.
12.   The method of claim 11, wherein the time period is in a range from 150 ms to 250 ms.
13.   The method of claim 10, wherein the electric arc treatment is applied using a cathode and
an anode having a separation distance and wherein the separation distance is in a range from 1.5
to 4 mm.
14.   The method of claim 9, wherein mechanically cleaving the bare end comprises cleaving the
bare end so that the end face makes an angle with respect to a plane perpendicular to an axis of
the optical fiber and the angle is in a range from 5' to 50'.
15.   The method of claim 14, wherein the angle is in a range from 5' to 15'.
16.   The method of claim 9, wherein the heat treating provides the core protruding from the
cladding with a protrusion height in a range from 10 to 200 nanometers.
17.   The method of claim 16, wherein the protrusion height is in a range from 10 nanometers to
150 nanometers.
                                                  88

18.   The method of claim 16, wherein the protrusion height is in a range from 30 nanometers to
60 nanometers.
                                              89

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
