ABSTRACT
A container/building system comprising; at least one elongate structural member at
least one connecting member, the connecting member able to be realisably
connected to the structural member and at least one plate that is able to realisably
engage with at least one structural member.

WO 2014/053011                  PCT/AU2013/001 125
                    1/14
              CC
                 co   CN     C
                      T   Q~T(R
                      QIIRTII               d

WO 2014/053011                                                        PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                  1
                                               TITLE
                               A CONTAINER/BUILDING SYSTEM
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                 This invention relates to a container/building system. In particular the
   5     invention relates to a modular container that can be assembled and
         disassembled to serve various needs including those of an expedient
         building system.
                              BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
                 Containers are used throughout the world to transport cargo. In 2011,
 10      approximately 90% of non-bulk cargo worldwide was moved by containers
         stacked on transport ships. Accordingly, containers form an integral part of
        the global transportation network for cargo.
                 Containers are intended to be used constantly. That is once a
        container is emptied of cargo, the container is reloaded with new cargo
 15     destined for a new destination. However, refilling a container once it has
        reached its destination is not always possible. The cost of transporting an
        empty container to a place where it is to be used is often considerably higher
        than the value of the used container. This often leads to unwanted
        stockpiling of containers at one location with a shortage of containers in
20      another location.
                The reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should
        not be taken as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the prior
       art forms part of the common general knowledge.
                               OBJECTIVE OF THE INVENTION
25              It is an objective of the invention to overcome and/or alleviate one or
       more of the above disadvantages and/or to provide the consumer with a
       useful and/or commercial choice.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                In one form, although not necessarily the only or broadest form, the
30     invention resides in a container building system comprising;
               at least one elongate structural member;
               at least one connecting member, the connecting member able to be

WO 2014/053011                                                       PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                 2
         realisably connected to the structural member; and
                at least one plate that is able to realisably engage with at least one
         structural member.
                The elongate structural member typically is either a beam or a post.
  5     The elongate structural member may be constructed from any suitable
         material. However, typically the elongate structural member is manufactured
        from steel, aluminium or composite material.
                The elongate structural member may include a series of engagement
         members. The engagement members may be used to engage with the at
 10     least one plate.
                The engagement members may form a repetitive pattern along at
        least part of the length of an elongate structural member. Typically, the
        engagement members extend along the majority of a length of an elongate
        structural member. Normally the engagement members are located only on
 15     a single side of a structural member. However, the engagement members
        may be located on more than one side of a structural member if desired.
                Preferably the engagement members are in the form of a repeating
        wave. The wave may be a sine wave, modified square wave, triangular wave
        or saw tooth wave.
 20             One or more of the engagement members may include an aperture
        that extends through the engagement member.
                One or more joining members may be used to connect one or more
        elongate structural members to each other using one or more apertures that
        extend through the engagement members.             Each joining member may
 25     include two or more engagement pins that may be used to connect two
        structural members together. Typically two or more joining members are
        used to join two elongate structural members together.
                The elongate structural member may include at least one fastening
        portion to fasten the elongate structural member to the connecting member.
 30     Typically there is a fastening portion located adjacent the end of the elongate
        structural member. Each fastening portion may include at least one captured
        nut. Alternatively, the fastening portion may include a threaded hole.

WO 2014/053011                                                       PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                3
                The elongate structural member may also include a locating portion to
        align the elongate structural member with the connecting member. Typically
        there is a locating portion located adjacent the end of the elongate structural
        member. The locating portion may be in the form of one or more locating
  5     pins. Alternatively, the locating portion may be in the form of locating holes.
                The connecting member may be made from a rectangular prism
        shaped, hollow body. The connecting member may be able to be connected
        to at least two elongate structural members. Preferably, the connecting
        member may be able to be connected to at least two elongate structural
 10     members. More preferably, the connecting member may be able to be
        connected to at least three elongate structural members.
                Preferably, the connecting member may be connected to two elongate
        structural members to allow the elongate structural members to lie in two
        different planes.     More preferably, the connecting member may be
 15     connected to three elongate structural members to allow the elongate
        structural members to lie in three different planes.
                The connecting member may include at least one fastening portion to
        fasten an elongate structural member to the connecting member.               A
        fastening portion of the connecting member is normally used in conjunction
20      with the fastening portion of the elongate structural member to connect
        elongate structural member to the connecting member.             Normally the
        connecting member has three fastening portions. A fastening portion of the
        connecting member may be in the form of a bolt or the like fastener.
                The connecting member may include at least one access aperture to
25      access the fastening portion of the connecting member. Preferably there are
        at least three access apertures. More preferably there are three access
        apertures.
                The connecting member may include at least one locating portion to
        align an elongate structural member with the connecting member. A locating
30      portion of the connecting member is normally used in conjunction with the
        locating portion of the elongate structural member to align the elongate
        structural member with the connecting member. Normally the connecting

WO 2014/053011                                                        PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                4
        member has three locating portions. The locating portion may be in the form
        of locating holes. Alternatively, the locating portion may be in the form of
        one or more locating pins.
                The plate typically is used as a floor plate. However, it is envisaged
  5     that the plate may be used as a roof plate. The plate has at least one socket
        for location of an elongate structural member. Typically the plate has at least
        four sockets. More preferably, the plate has four sockets. The sockets are
        normally located at respective ends of the plates. However, it is envisaged
        that the sockets may be located on respective sides of tlhe plate. The
10      sockets are normally located adjacent the corners of the plate.
                A series of tie holes may be spaced around the periphery of the plate.
         A series of ties may be plated within the holes to tie one plate to an adjacent
        plate. The tie may be located within a top of a one one plate and within a
        bottom of a tie hole in the adjacent plate. The ties may be substantially Z
 15     shaped.
                Each socket may have a series of engagement members. The
        engagement members of the socket are typically shaped to engage with the
        engagement members of an elongate structural member. The engagement
         members of the socket are shaped in a complimentary fashion to engage
20      with the engagement members of an elongate structural member. Preferably
        the engagement members of the socket may be in the form of a repeating
        wave. The wave may be a sine wave, modified square wave, triangular wave
        or saw tooth wave.
                A locking member may be used to hold a connecting member in
25       engagement within a socket of the plate. The locking member may be
         located on either the connecting member or on the plate or on both.
         Preferably, the locking member is located in the plate. Typically there are
        the same number of locking members as there are sockets in the plate.
                The plate may have at least one alignment member. Typically the
 30      alignment members are used to ensure the sockets are in alignment when
         plates are stacked on top of each other. Normally, there are at least four
         alignment members on a top face and bottom face of the plate. The

WO 2014/053011                                                          PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                5
       alignment member may be in the form of dimple and/or a projection.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
               Embodiment of the invention, by way of example only, will be
       described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
 5             FIG 1 is an isometric view of a container/building system according to
       a first embodiment of the invention;
               FIG 2 is a further isometric view of a container/building system
       according to a first embodiment of the invention;
               FIG. 3 is an isometric view of a connecting member according to a
10     first embodiment of the invention;
               FIG. 4 is a side sectional view of a connecting member attached to an
        elongate structural member;
               FIG. 5 is a side elevational view of a locking member attaching an
        elongate structural member to plate;
15              FIG 6A is a side elevational view of a container/building system having
        a single floor plate;
                FIG 6B is a side elevational view of a container/building system that
        has numerous floor plates stacked together;
                FIG 6C is a side elevational view of a container/building system
20      having a single floor plate located in a different position to that shown in FIG
        4A;
                FIG 7 is an isometric view of a container/building system according to
        a second embodiment of the invention;
                FIG 8 is a further isometric view of a container/building system
25      according to a second embodiment of the invention;
                FIG 9A to 9C show a detailed view of two elongate support members
        being joined together according to a second embodiment of the invention;
                FIG 10 shows a detailed view of two plates being joined together
        according to a second embodiment of the invention; and
30              FIG    11A    to  11D    show     perspectives views       of how     the
        container/building system can be used.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT

WO 2014/053011                                                     PCT/AU2013/001125
                                               6
                FIG. I shows a modular container/building system 10 that is able to
        be assembled for carrying cargo and disassembled for transportation to other
        sites with a greatly reduced volume, that can then be assembled and
        disassembled to serve various needs including those of an expedient
 5      building system.
                The container/building system 10 includes a floor plate 20, a number
        of elongate structural members 30 and a number of connecting members 40.
                FIG 1 shows a modular container/building system with the floor plate
        at a lower level whist FIG. 2 shows a modular container/building system that
10      has been assembled with the floor plate installed at an intermediate level.
                The floor plate 20 is sustainably rectangular in shape and is
        constructed from steel. However it should be appreciated that other suitable
        materials may be used. The plate has four sockets 21 which are located
        within ends 22 of the floor plate. The respective sockets 21 are located
15      adjacent corners 23 of the floor plate. Each of the sockets 21 is profiled to
        form engagement members 24. The engagement members 24 are formed in
        one side of the socket 21. However it should be appreciated that the
        engagement members 24 may be formed on opposite sides of the sockets.
        The engagement members 24 are in the form of a sine wave.
20              The floor plate also includes a series spaced apart projections (not
        shown) located on a top face of the floor plate and a series of dimples (not
        shown) located in a bottom face of the floor plate. The projections and
        dimples are relatively sized so that the dimples on one plate will receive the
        projections of another plate. The projections and dimples are used to align
25      stacked plate.
                The elongate structural members 30 are either posts or beams. For
        example in this embodiment there are four posts and eight beams. The posts
        and beams can be of variable length. However both the posts and beams
        are made from the same structural materials and have the same profile.
30      Accordingly posts can be used as beams and vise versa.
                Each elongate structural member 30 has a series of engagement
        members 31. The engagement members 31 run along one single side of the

WO 2014/053011                                                       PCT/AU2013/001125
                                               7
        elongate structural member 30. The engagement members 31 are in the
        form of a sine wave.
               Each elongate structural member 30 is hollow. A captured nut 32 is
        located within each end of the elongate structure member. Two locating pins
 5      33 are formed at end of the elongate structure member. The captured nut
        32 and locating pins 33 are shown in FIG 4.
               The connecting members 40 are located at the corners of the
        container/building system 10. A detailed view of the connecting member 40
        is shown in FIG 3. Each connecting member 40 is formed by a hollow steel
10      body 41. Each connecting member 40 is able to be used to connect three
        elongate structural members 30. Accordingly the body 41 has three
        associated bolts (not shown) and three associated access apertures 44.
        Further the body has three bolt holes 43 and three sets of four locating holes
        44 (only one shown for the purposes of clarity). The locating holes 44 are
15      located around the bolt holes 43. However it should be appreciated by a
        person skilled in the art that the number and position of the locating holes 44
        may be varied according to the design.
               In order to assemble the container/building system 10, the elongate
        structural members 30 that form the posts are located within respective
20      sockets 21 of the plate 20. The elongate structural members 30 are
        orientated so that the engagement members of the elongate structural
        members 30 mate with the engagement members 24 of their respective
        sockets 21. A locking member 50 is then activated by tightening bolts 54
        forcing a pressure plate 51 against the elongate structural members 30 to
25      prevent removal of the elongate structural members from their respective
        sockets 21 as shown in FIG 5.
               The connecting members 40 are then attached to each of the ends of
        the elongate structural members 30 that are engaged with the sockets 21.
        The connecting members 40 are attached to the ends of the elongate
30      structural members 40 by placing the connecting members 40 adjacent the
        end of their respective elongate structural members 30 so that the locating
        pins 33 of respective elongate structural member 30 are located within the

WO 2014/053011                                                         PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                  8
         locating holes 44 of the connecting member 40. This is shown is FIG 3. A
         bolt 45 is then placed through the appropriate access aperture 42 and the
         bolt hole 43 until it engages the captive nut 32 locating within the elongate
         structural element 30. The bolt 45 is rotated until the bolt head engages the
  5      body 41 of the connecting member 40. A tool, such as a wheel brace, is then
         used to tighten the bolt 45 sufficiently so that the elongate structural member
         30 is held tightly to the connecting member 40. This process is repeated for
         all of the elongate structural members 30 that form beams.
                  In order to disassemble the container/building system the bolts 45 are
 10      simply removed from the elongate structural members 30 to enable the
         connecting members 40 to be removed from the elongate structural
         members 30. The locking members 50 are then released, opening the
         respective sockets 21 to enable the elongate structural members 30 to be
         removed from the plate 20. In the disassembled state, the container/building
 15      systems are able to be transported in bulk.
                  FIG. 6B show a number of floor plates 20 that have been stacked
         together. The floor plates 20 are aligned using projections which are located
         in a top face that mate with dimples located in a bottom face. This ensures
        that all of the sockets 21 are in alignment. When the sockets 21 are in
 20      alignment an elongate structural member 30 can be located -through each of
        the sockets 21. The locking members 50 can then be simply be engaged to
         ensure that the elongate member do not become displaced from the sockets
         21.
                  FIG. 6C shows that the position of a floor plate 20 can be varied with
 25      respect to the elongate structural member 30.
                  FIG 7 and FIG 8 show a second embodiment of the invention. Like
         numerals have been used to describe like components. In this embodiment
        the engagement members 31 located on each of the elongate structural
         members 30 are in the form of a modified square wave as opposed to a sine
 30     wave. Similarly, engagement members 24 of located within sockets 21 of
        the plate 20 are also in the form of a modified square wave as opposed to a
        sine wave. The connection and disconnection of the elongate structural

WO 2014/053011                                                        PCT/AU2013/001125
                                                  9
        members 30 and the plate 20 are the same as described in the first
        embodiment.
                        Apertures 32 are located within each of the engagement
        members 31 located on each of the elongate structural members 30 as
  5     shown more clearly in FIGS 9A to 9C. These apertures 32 are used in
        conjunction with a joining member 33. The joining member 33 is formed
        from two pins 34 and a body 35 which are spaced and sized to be located
        within two apertures 32 of different elongate structural members 30. The two
        joining pins 34 are spaced apart and extend outwardly from the body 35.
 10             In use, two elongate structural members 30 that are to be joined
        together are located adjacent each other so that their respective engagement
        members 31 are engaged. The joining pins 34 of the joining member 33 are
        then inserted into apertures 32 of different elongate structural members 30.
        This prevents separation of the two elongate structural members 30 with any
 15     down force being applied through the engagement members 31.
                The plate 20 in this embodiment also has a series of tie holes 25 that
        are used to connect and support an adjacent plate 20A as shown in FIG 10.
        The tie holes 25 are within the plate 20 and are spaced around the plate 20.
        Two tie holes 25 are located adjacent each end of the plate 20 and three tie
20      hole 25 are located adjacent each side of the plate 20. Ties 50 are used in
        conjunction with the tie hoes to attach one plate 20 to an adjacent plate.
        Each tie 50 is in the form of a Z-shaped clip. The ties 50 are located within
        the top of the holes 50 on the plate 20 which is used to support the adjacent
        plate 20A. The ties 50 are located within the bottom of the slots in supported
 25     plate 20.
                FIG 11A to 11 D show the container/building system shown in FIG 7 to
        10 in practical use. FIG 11A shows how a basic frame structure can be
        created using plates 20, elongate structural members 30, connecting
        members 40, and ties 50. A cover can then be used to cover the frame as
 30     shown in FIG 11B. Extensions can be made as shown in FIG 11C. Hard
        cladding can also be added as shown in FIG 11 D.
                In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or

                                            10
similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those
elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
        It should be appreciated that various other changes and modifications may be
made to the embodiment described without departing from the spirit or scope of the
invention.
       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
       This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013327390. The full disclosure of AU 2013327390 is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                             11
CLAIMS
1.      A container/building system comprising;
        at least one elongate structural member, the at least one elongate structural
member including a series of engagement members that form a repetitive pattern
along at least part of a length of the at least one elongate structural member;
        at least one connecting member, the connecting member able to be
releasably connected to the at least one elongate structural member; and
        at least one plate that is able to releasably engage with at least one of the at
least one elongate structural member;
        wherein the plate has at least one socket for location of at least one of the at
least one elongate structural member, wherein each socket has a series of non
rotatable engagement members shaped to engage with the engagement members of
the at least one of the at least one elongate structural member located therein, and
        wherein the series of engagement members of the socket are formed on a
linear surface of the socket,
        wherein the series of engagement members of the socket are fixedly attached
to the socket, and
        wherein the series of engagement members of the at least one elongate
structural member are formed on a linear surface of the at least one elongate
structural member.
2.      The container/building system of claim 1 wherein the at least one elongate
structural member is a beam or a post.
3.      The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the engagement members
extend along the majority of a length of the at least one elongate structural member.
4.      The container/building system of claim 1 wherein the engagement members
are located only on a single side of the at least one elongate structural member.
5.      The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the engagement members
are in the form of a repeating wave, selected from the group comprising a sine wave,
a modified square wave, a triangular wave, and a saw tooth wave.

                                          12
6.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein one or more of the
engagement members include an aperture that extends through the engagement
member.
7.     The container/building system of claim 6 including at least one joining
member located within at least one aperture of an engagement member of two
elongate structural members.
8.     The container/building system of claim 7 wherein each joining member
includes two or more engagement pins.
9.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the elongate structural
member includes at least one fastening portion to fasten the elongate structural
member to the connecting member.
10.    The container/building system of claim 9 wherein the fastening portion of the
elongate structural member is located adjacent to the end of the elongate structural
member and includes at least one captured nut or a threaded hole.
11.    The container/building system of claim 1 wherein the elongate structural
member also includes a locating portion to align the elongate structural member with
the connecting member.
12.    The container/building system of claim 11 wherein the locating portion is
located adjacent the end of the elongate structural member.
13.    The container/building system of claim 11 wherein the locating portion is in
the form of one or more locating pins or one or more locating holes.
14.    The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is
connected to at least two elongate structural members, the connecting member
allowing the elongate structural members to lie in two different planes.

                                            13
15.    The container/building system of claim 9, wherein the connecting member
includes at least one fastening portion to fasten an elongate structural member to the
connecting member and wherein the fastening portion of the connecting member is
used in conjunction with the fastening portion of the elongate structural member to
connect elongate structural member to the connecting member.
16.    The container/building system of claim 15 wherein the connecting member
has three fastening portions.
17.    The container/building system of claim 15, wherein the fastening portion of the
connecting member is in the form of a bolt.
18.    The container/building system of claim 15, wherein the connecting member
includes at least one access aperture to access the fastening portion of the
connecting member.
19.    The container/building system of claim 18 wherein there are at least three
access apertures.
20.    The container/building system of claim 11, wherein the connecting member
includes at least one locating portion to align an elongate structural member with the
connecting member.
21.    The container/building system of claim 20 wherein the locating portion of the
connecting member is used in conjunction with the locating portion of the elongate
structural member to align the elongate structural member with the connecting
member.
22.    The container/building system of claim 20 wherein the connecting member
has three locating portions.
23.    The container/building system of claim 20 wherein the locating portion is in
the form of locating holes.

                                           14
24.     The container/building system of claim 20 wherein the locating portion is in
the form of one or more locating pins.
25.     The container/building system of claim 1 wherein the connecting member is a
rectangular prism shaped, hollow body.
26.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the plate has at least four
sockets.
27.     The container/building system of claim 26 wherein the sockets are located at
respective ends of the plates.
28.     The container/building system of claim 26 wherein the sockets are located
adjacent the corners of the plate.
29.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the engagement members
are in the form of a repeating wave selected from the group comprising: a sine wave,
a modified sine wave, triangular wave, and saw tooth wave.
30.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein a locking member is used
to hold the at least one elongate structural member in engagement within the at least
one socket of the plate.
31.     The container/building system of claim 30 wherein the locking member is
located on either the at least one elongate structural member or on the plate or on
both.
32.     The container/building system of claim 1, wherein the plate has at least one
alignment member in the form of a dimple and/or a projection.
33.     The container/building system of claim 32 wherein there are at least four
alignment members on a top face and bottom face of the plate.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
