ABSTRACT
A method for treating obesity, in a patient having a stomach with a food cavity, by implanting a
volume filling device (10) that, when implanted in a patient, reduces said food cavity in size by a
volume substantially exceeding the volume of said volume filling device.

                                                  -1
                                      OBESITY TREATMENT
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]     The present invention relates to an apparatus, a system, and a method for treating
obesity.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Obesity has been treated by gastric banding a band placed around the stomach to
create a stoma, a restricted opening, to restrict the flow of food down to below the band. There
has also been tried to use electrical stimulation of the stomach wall to cause the patient to feel
satiety.
[0004]     When the stomach gets distended the patient gets a feeling that the stomach is full.
[0005]     Another prior art way of treating obesity is to insert a balloon-like object into the
stomach of the patient. In this way, the patient is given the feeling of satiety much more quickly
when eating, preventing excessive intake of food. However, these prior art balloon-like objects
are subject to stomach acids, leading to their destruction within a couple of months of use.
[0006]     An example of a prior art inflatable gastric device for treating obesity is disclosed in
US patent No. 4,246,893 to Berson. In this document, it is disclosed an abdominal method
wherein an inflatable balloon is surgically implanted in the abdominal cavity of the patient
adjacent to the stomach. An adjusting port is provided subcutaneously and the balloon is
subsequently inflated by means of inserting a hypodermic needle through the skin of the
patient into the adjusting port and introducing a fluid under pressure into the port for passage
into the balloon to distend the upper abdomen, compressing the stomach and thereby
producing a sense of satiety.
[0007]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.

                                                -2
SUMMARY
[0008]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for treating obesity, in a
patient having a stomach with a food cavity, by implanting a volume filling device that, when
implanted in a patient, reduces said food cavity in size by a volume substantially exceeding the
volume of said volume filling device, the method comprising the steps of:
           creating a pouch in the stomach wall, sealed from the stomach cavity, from the
outside of the stomach wall, wherein the pouch is created from the tissue of the stomach wall
and adapted for the volume filling device;
           placing the volume filling device on the outside of the stomach wall;
           completely enclosing the volume filling device by invaginating the volume filling
device in the pouch by providing stomach to stomach sutures or staples to the stomach wall
from the outside of the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the
volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of
the volume filling device, and
               introducing a non-invasive regulation apparatus for non-invasively regulating the
volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0009]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0010]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating obesity in a
patient having a stomach with a food cavity by implanting a volume filling device that, when
implanted in a patient, reduces said food cavity in size by a volume substantially exceeding the
volume of the volume filling device, the method comprising the steps of:
           creating a hole in the stomach wall;
           introducing a volume filling device into the abdominal cavity;
           introducing the volume filling device through the hole and into the stomach;
           placing the volume filling device on the inside of the stomach wall;
           creating a pouch from tissue of the stomach wall, sealed from the stomach cavity, on
the outside of the stomach cavity for the device placed on the inside of the stomach wall, and
           completely enclosing the volume filling device by invaginating the volume filling
device in the pouch by providing stomach to stomach sutures or staples from the outside of the
stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the volume of the food cavity
is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.

                                                   -3
[0011]       Preferably, the assembled volume filling device has a maximum circumference of at
least 15 millimeters, and more preferably of at least 30 millimeters. Preferably, the volume
filling device segments has at least part of an outer surface including a biocompatible material.
By invaginating an assembled volume filling device by the stomach wall on the outside thereof
this device is protected from the stomach acids and will thus remain functioning for a very long
time.
[0012]       According to one alternative, assembled the volume filling device is adapted to be
placed inside the stomach with the outer surface of the volume filling device resting against the
inside of the stomach wall, such that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a
volume exceeding the volume of the volume filling device. The volume filling device is
preferably adapted to be placed inside the stomach with a gastroscope.
[0013]       According to another alternative, assembled the volume filling device is adapted to
be placed on the outside of the stomach wall with the outer surface of the volume filling device
resting against the outside of the stomach wall, such that the volume of the food cavity is
reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
Preferably, the assembled volume filling device is adapted to be completely invaginated by the
stomach wall of the patient and to be placed outside the stomach wall via a gastroscopic
instrument.
[0014]       To this end the volume filling device segments may comprise an attachment device
adapted to co-operate with a gripping instrument. Suitably, the assembled volume filling device
is adapted to be non-invasively adjustable postoperatively.
[0015]       The assembled volume filling device preferably is adapted to disassemble into its
segments if it leaves its placed with the outer surface of the device resting against the stomach
wall, i.e. its implanted at last partially invaginated position. The segments are preferably
adapted to separately pass through the food passage way, thereby reducing risk of causing
obstruction/ileus in the patient's intestine. The volume filling device segments can be adapted
to pass through a trocar, for assembly and implantation of said volume filling device into the
abdominal cavity. The volume filling device segments can have a flexible outer shape adapted
to pass through a trocar. The volume filling device segments can be adapted to have a shape
allowing them to be assembled into the device when implanted. In one embodiment, at least
one of the volume filling device segments have flexible outer surface. In one embodiment, at
least one of the volume filling device segments comprises a rigid outer surface. In one

                                                  -4
embodiment, at least one of the volume filling device segments is hollow with a flexible outer
surface. In one embodiment at least one of the volume filling device segments comprises an
enclosure wall defining a chamber. At least one of the volume filling device segments can be
adapted to be filled with at least one of a fluid a foam, a gel or a fluid that hardens to a solid
material. In one embodiment the volume filling device segments comprises a homogenous
and/or solid material, for example a solid body. In one embodiment at least of said segments
comprises a flexible, non-elastic material. In one embodiment at least of said segments
comprises a inflatable chamber and at least one tube connected thereto for supplementation of
fluid to the chamber. It is preferred that the volume filling device segments are adapted to
temporary be holding their assembled position, preferably by the invaginated stomach wall, or
alternatively by an adhesive.
[0016]      For its assembly, the volume filling device is provided with at least one assembly
element that sufficiently fits with at least one assembly element of another segment, so the
segments by fitting assembly elements can be assembled into the implantable volume filling
device. Preferably, the segments for this purpose comprise a core part and a plurality of outer
parts, and preferably, the at least one assembly element is selected among sufficiently fitting
flanges and slits. The core part is adapted to receive and assemble the outer elements into an
implantable volume filling device, and preferably the core part has assembly slits adapted to
receive corresponding assembly flanges of the outer parts when assembling the volume filling
device. In one embodiment the slits are distributed around the outer peripheral area of the core
part. The outer parts are then provided with flanges sufficiently matching the slits to assemble
the device. In another embodiment, the at least one assembly element immobilizes each of the
volume filling device segments to a core part along a first plane, and wherein movement, and
wherein the volume filling device segments and the core part further comprises a second
assembly element, which following the assembly of said segments and core part, immobilize
each segment and core part along a second plane in an angle to said first plane. For example,
the first plane and the second plane can be substantially perpendicular. The second assembly
element comprises mating elements, preferably with matching protrusions and recesses
provided on the volume filling device segments and the core part, while the at least one
assembly element further comprises protrusions and recesses. Preferably, the at least one
assembly element comprises an assembly slit in the core part and an assembly flange in a
segment, and wherein a mating element comprises a protrusion in said slit and a recess in
said flange; or alternatively, the at least one assembly element comprises an assembly flange
in the core part and an assembly slit in a segment, and wherein the a mating element
comprises a protrusion in said slit and a recess in said flange.

                                                  -5
[0017]        In one particular embodiment, the apparatus preferably further comprises a guiding
device, operable for assembling the volume filling device segments to an implantable volume
filling device. Preferably, the guiding device is an operation wire operably connected to the
segments.
[0018]        The operation wire can be made of a material that is biodegradable in contact with
the body fluid in the abdominal cavity so as to facilitate disassembly of the volume filling device
into its segments. In order to assist with assembly procedure, each segment can be provided
with at least one assembly element that sufficiently fits with at least one assembly element of
another segment, so the segments by fitting assembly elements can be assembled into the
implantable volume filling device. In one embodiment the segments comprise a core part and a
plurality of outer parts and in one embodiment wherein the assembly elements are selected
among sufficiently fitting flanges and slits. The core part preferably is adapted to receive and
assemble the outer elements into an implantable volume filling device. In one embodiment the
core part has assembly slits adapted to receive corresponding assembly flanges of the outer
parts when assembling the volume filling device. Preferably the slits are distributed around the
outer peripheral area of the core part. The slits and flanges may be designed to have loose fit
adapted keep the segments together as a volume filling device at its implanted located, but
assist with disassemble the device if it inadvertently leaves such a position, for example to the
stomach cavity. In such event the degradation of the guiding device will also assist with
disassembling the volume filling device into segments which are designed not cause any
obstructions or in any other form damage the patient.
[0019]        In order to assemble the segments, the operation wire is connected to the core part
and to the outer parts so the outer parts can be sequentially assembled to the core part so as
to assemble the volume filling device. For this purpose, the operation wire preferably is
connected to the assembly flanges of the outer part and preferably, the core part is provided
with at least one operation channel for receiving the operation wire. Preferably, each outer part
is connected to two operation channels by the operation wire. In one embodiment, a first
operation channel has a first orifice in an end surface of the core part and second orifice in a
first slit of the core part, so when displacing the operation wire received in said first operation
channel in a direction from said end surface, a first outer part is assembled to said core part. A
second operation channel has two orifices in a second slit of the core part, so when displacing
the operation wire connected to the first operation cannel in a directed from the end surface, a
second outer part is assembled to said core part. Preferably, the guiding wire protrudes from
the first channel orifice so it can be operated on with an instrument to displace the guiding wire

                                                 -6
and a first outer element so its assembly flange fits with its designated first assembly slit on the
core element, and in a predetermined sequence in the same manner displacing the remaining
outer elements so as to assemble the implantable volume filling device. The segments can
comprise three or more outer parts assembled to designated slits of the core part with the
guiding wire through operation channels having orifices in each designated slit of said core
part. In one embodiment the volume filling device comprises one core part and four outer
parts. However other ways of designing the segments within the present concept is feasible
according to the skilled person. The so assembled volume filling device can retain a generally
spherical form, but as will be described later other shapes and additional function elements are
made part of the present invention.
[0020]      The apparatus may comprise a fixation device, suitably two or more fixation devices,
adapted to be involved in the fixation of the volume filling device to the stomach wall. The
volume filling device including at least one of its segments may comprise a holding device
adapted to be held by an instrument, suitably two or more holding devices, to simplify the
implantation of the device.
[0021]     At least a part of the assembled volume filling device may be made of a material
which is not destructible by stomach acid. The volume filling device may be destructible by
acids, for example hydrochloric acid.
[0022]      In an embodiment, the volume filling device including at least one of its segments is
inflatable to an expanded state and comprises an enclosure wall defining a chamber, wherein
the volume filling device is inflated with a gel or fluid supplied into the chamber. At least one
tube may be connected to the volume filling device for supplying gel or fluid to the chamber. An
injection port connectible with the tube may be provided. Alternatively, the volume filling
member may be provided with an inlet port for a fluid or a gel connectible to a gastroscopic
instrument, wherein the inlet port comprises a fluid connection adapted to interconnect the
inflatable device and the gastroscopic instrument.
[0023]      The volume filling device may include a homogenous material, such as gel having a
shore value of less than 15. The device may also be a solid body.
[0024]      The volume filling device including at least one of its segments may comprise a rigid,
elastic or flexible outer surface. Where the outer surface is rigid, it is rigid enough to maintain

                                                  -7
non-deformed when subject to forces created by stomach movements. The volume filling
device may comprise a flexible non-elastic material.
[0025]     In accordance with a first general design of the volume filling device, the device has
a maximum circumference as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the device. The
circumferences of the device as seen in other planes perpendicular to said axis are equal to
the maximum circumference or decrease as seen along said axis in the direction from the
maximum circumference. For example, the device may be substantially egg shaped,
spherically shaped, or substantially shaped like an egg with an indented middle section or like
a bent egg.
[0026]     In accordance with a second general design of the device, the circumference of the
device as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the device increases and
decreases at least two times as the plane is displaced along said axis, or decreases and
increases at least one time as the plane is displaced along said axis. For example, the device
may be substantially shaped like a kidney.
[0027]     The assembled volume filling device in yet another embodiment has a circumference
as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the body, and wherein the circumference
constantly increases or remains constant when moving along said axis from a first end point of
said axis to a intermediate point with a maximum, and the circumference constantly decreases
or remains constant when moving from said intermediate point to a second end point of said
axis.
[0028]     The assembled volume filling device in yet another embodiment has a circumference
as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the body, and wherein the circumference
constantly increases or remains constant when moving along said axis from a first end point of
said axis to a first intermediate point with a first maximum, the circumference constantly
decreases or remains constant when moving from said first intermediate point to a second
intermediate point with a first minimum, the circumference constantly increases or remains
constant when moving along said axis from said second intermediate point of said axis to a
third intermediate point with a second maximum, and the circumference constantly decreases
or remains constant when moving from said third intermediate point to a second end point of
said axis.
[0029]     More embodiments are described below:

                                                  -8
[0030]      The assembled volume filling device and/or one or more of the volume filling device
segments may have an elongated, rounded, bent and/or curved shape.
[0031]      The assembled volume filling device has a circumference of at least 30, 50, 80 120,
150, 180 or 220 mm.
[0032]      The assembled volume filling device has a volume in the range of 0.0001 to 0.001
m3 , or 0.00001 to 0.001 M3 , or 0.00001 to 0.0002 M3 . The volume of the volume filling device
has in yet another embodiment a volume of less than 0.0002 M3 .
[0033]      The volume filling device may comprise at least two interconnectable portions
adapted to be placed inside the stomach as separate portions.
[0034]      The volume filling device including at least one of its segments may comprise an
elastic material, a bio-compatible material and/or silicone.
[0035]      Suitably, the volume filling device is provided with at least one layer. For example, a
metal layer, a Parylene layer, a polytetrafluoroethylene layer or a polyurethane layer. The
layers may comprise multiple layers in any order. Suitably, one of the layers may be made of
made of metal, silicon or PTFE. The volume filling device may comprise an outer surface layer
of silicone, polyurethane, Teflon@, or polytetrafluoroethylene, metal, parylene, PTFE or a
combination thereof. The volume filling device may comprise an inner surface layer of silicone,
polyurethane, Teflon@, or polytetrafluoroethylene, metal, parylene, PTFE or a combination
thereof. Other combinations include an inner surface layer of polytetrafluoroethylene and an
outer layer of silicone, an inner surface layer of polytetrafluoroethylene, an intermediate layer
of silicone, and an outer layer of Parylene, an inner surface layer of polyurethane and an outer
layer of silicone, and an inner surface layer of polyurethane, an intermediate layer of silicone,
and an outer layer of Parylene.
[0036]      The volume filling device including at least one of its segments may comprise a fluid
adapted to be transformed into solid state or fixed form. Such a fluid may be liquid
polyurethane or isotonic. The fluid may comprises large molecules, such as iodine molecules,
to prevent diffusion.
[0037]      The volume filling device may have a maximum circumference of at least 50
millimeters, preferably at least 80 millimeters. Suitably, the volume filling device is deformable
to a maximum diameter, so as to be insertable into a laparoscopic trocar.

                                                -9
[0038]      Preferably, the assembled volume filling device is adapted to be kept in place by
stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples to invaginate the device in the stomach wall.
Advantageously, the volume filling device has varying circumference to better be kept in place
invaginated in the stomach wall of the patient. The stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples may
be provided with fixation portions exhibiting a structure adapted to be in contact with the
stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure long term placement of the
volume filling device attached to the stomach wall. The structure may comprise a net like
structure.
[0039]      In one example, the apparatus comprises a stretching device placed outside the
stomach wall and adapted to stretch a portion of the stomach wall, thereby affecting the
patient's appetite. Where the volume filling device including at least one of its segments is
inflatable, the apparatus may comprise a fluid connection interconnecting the stretching device
and the volume filling device.
[0040]      In an example, the apparatus comprises at least one operable stretching device
implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall
and an operation device for operating the stretching device when implanted to stretch the
stomach wall portion such that satiety is created.
[0041]      In an example, the apparatus comprises at least one operable stretching device
implantable in the patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall, and an
implantable control unit for automatically controlling the operable stretching device, when the
control unit and stretching device are implanted, to stretch the stomach wall portion in
connection with the patient eating such that satiety is created.
[0042]      In an example, the apparatus comprises at least one operable stretching device
implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall,
wherein said stretching device comprising an expandable stretching reservoir and an operation
device for operating the stretching device when implanted to stretch the stomach wall portion,
wherein the volume filling device is inflatable and in fluid connection with said stretching
reservoir, wherein said operation device comprises a pump for pumping fluid between said
main reservoir and said stretching reservoir to stretch said stomach wall portion such that
satiety is created. A control device may be provided for controlling said stretching device
including said pump. The control device may comprise a wireless remote control adapted to
control the stretching device from the outside of the patient's body, or an implantable control

                                                 -10
unit for controlling said stretching device. Alternatively, the control device may comprise a
subcutaneously placed switch or reservoir adapted to control the stretching device from the
outside of the patient's body. A sensor or sensing device to be implanted in the patient body
may be provided, wherein the implantable control unit is adapted to control the stretching
device from the inside of the patient's body using information from said a sensor or sensing
device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food intake of the patient.
[0043]      In an example, the assembled volume filling device comprises a main volume filling
reservoir, a stretching device comprising at least one operable stretching device implantable in
an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall, wherein said
stretching device comprising an expandable reservoir, adapted to be invaginated in the
stomach wall at the upper part of the stomach, higher up than the inflatable main volume filling
device when the patient is standing, wherein the volume filling device is inflatable and in fluid
connection with said stretching reservoir, wherein normal contractions of the stomach wall,
related to food intake, cause fluid to flow from said invaginated main volume filling reservoir
lower placed onto the stomach wall adapted to cause said stretching reservoir to stretch said
stomach wall portion such that satiety is created. The fluid connection between the main
volume filling device reservoir and the stretching reservoir comprises a non-return valve. The
fluid connection between the main volume filling device reservoir and the stretching reservoir
comprises a release function adapted to release the volume in the stretching reservoir back to
the main volume filling device reservoir. Said release function may comprise a fluid return
connection of a substantially smaller area than said fluid connection, to slowly release back
fluid to said main volume filling device reservoir from the stretching reservoir to release said
stretching of the stomach wall portion. A further manual control device comprising a
subcutaneously placed reservoir adapted to control the stretching device from the outside of
the patient's body may be provided to further affect the stretching device to stretch the
stomach wall portion.
[0044]      In an embodiment, a main volume filling device reservoir adapted to be inflatable
may be provided, wherein the volume filling device further comprises an expandable structure,
adapted to expand, when the device is invaginated in the stomach wall, wherein said structure
comprising a bellow adapted to take into account the fibrosis surrounding the device when
implanted, such that the movement of the bellow is substantially un-affected of said fibrosis.
[0045]      In an example, the apparatus comprises a stretching device comprising at least one
operable stretching device implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of

                                                - 11
the patient's stomach wall and wherein the stretching device comprising a expandable
structure, adapted to expand and stretch the stomach wall portion, when the device is
invaginated in the stomach wall, wherein said structure comprising a special bellow adapted to
take into account the fibrosis surrounding the device when implanted, such that the movement
of the bellow is substantially un-affected of said fibrosis. An operation device for operating the
stretching device may be provided to stretch the stomach wall portion such that satiety is
created. The apparatus may comprise an implantable control unit for automatically controlling
the operable stretching device, when the control unit and stretching device are implanted, to
stretch the stomach wall portion in connection with the patient eating such that satiety is
created.
[0046]     In an example, the apparatus comprises a stretching device comprising at least one
operable stretching device implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of
the patient's stomach wall such that satiety is created. The control device may comprise a
wireless remote control adapted to control the stretching device from the outside of the
patient's body or an implantable control unit for controlling said stretching device. Alternatively,
said control device may comprise a subcutaneously placed switch or reservoir adapted to
control the stretching device from the outside of the patient's body. A sensor or sensing device
adapted to be implanted in the patient body may be provided, wherein the implantable control
unit is adapted to control the stretching device from the inside of the patient's body using
information from said sensor or sensing device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food
intake of the patient.
[0047]     In an example, the apparatus further comprises a stretching device comprising three
or more mechanical parts engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each,
wherein said engagement includes suturing or stapling to the stomach wall or invaginating the
mechanical parts in the stomach wall part with stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the three
or more mechanical parts are adapted to move in relation to each other adapted to stretch
three different wall portions, the stretching device further adapted to having said wall portions
stretched independently from each other both regarding force used for stretching the stomach
wall portion as well as, time periods the stretching is applied, and when the stretching is
applied.
[0048]     In an example, the apparatus further comprises a stretching device comprising two
or more hydraulic parts engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each,
wherein said engagement includes suturing or stapling to hydraulic part to the stomach wall or

                                                 - 12
invaginating the hydraulic parts in the stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach sutures,
wherein the two or more hydraulic parts are adapted to move in relation to each other adapted
to stretch three different wall portions, the stretching device further adapted to having said wall
portions stretched independently from each other both regarding force used for stretching the
stomach wall portion as well as, time periods the stretching is applied, and when the stretching
is applied.
[0049]      In an example, the apparatus further comprises a stretching device is engaged with
a part of the stomach wall, including suturing or stapling the stretching device to the stomach
wall or invaginating the stretching device in the stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach
sutures, wherein the stretching device is further adapted to stretch a stomach wall portion
controlling force used for stretching the stomach wall portion as well as, time periods the
stretching is applied, and when the stretching is applied.
[0050]      In an example, the apparatus further comprises a stretching device comprising two
parts engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each, wherein said
engagement includes suturing or stapling the parts to the stomach wall or invaginating the
parts in the stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the stretching device
further adapted to have different wall portions stretched independently from each other
controlling force used for stretching the stomach wall portion as well as, time periods the
stretching is applied, and when the stretching is applied.
[0051]      In an example, the apparatus is further adapted to treat reflux disease. To this end, it
further comprises an implantable volume filling device adapted to be at least partly invaginated
by the patient's stomach fundus wall and having an outer surface that includes a biocompatible
material, wherein a substantial part of the outer surface of the volume filling device is adapted
to rest against the stomach wall without injuring the latter in a position between the patient's
diaphragm and at least a portion of the lower part of the invaginated stomach fundus wall, such
that movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is
restricted, when the volume filling device is invaginated, to thereby prevent the cardia from
sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the
supporting pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's
abdomen, the volume filling device having a size of at least 125 mm 3 and a circumference of at
least 15 mm.

                                                -13
[0052]      In another example, the apparatus is further adapted to treat reflux disease. To this
end, it further comprises an implantable volume filling device having an outer surface including
a biocompatible material, wherein the movement restriction device is adapted to rest with at
least a part of its outer surface against the patient's stomach fundus wall, in a position between
the patient's diaphragm and the fundus wall, such that movement of the cardiac notch of the
patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is restricted, when the movement restriction
device is implanted in the patient, to thereby prevent the cardia from sliding through the
patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the supporting
pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen,
wherein the volume filling device having a size of at least 125 mm3 and a circumference of at
least 15 mm, and an a fixation device adapted to secure the volume filling device in said
position, when the volume filling device is implanted.
[0053]      In another example, the apparatus is further adapted to treat reflux disease. To this
end, it further comprises an implantable movement restriction device adapted to be at least
partly invaginated by the patient's stomach fundus wall and having an outer surface that
includes a biocompatible material, wherein a substantial part of the outer surface of the
movement restriction device is adapted to rest against the stomach wall without injuring the
latter in a position between the patient's diaphragm and at least a portion of the lower part of
the invaginated stomach fundus wall, such that movement of the cardiac notch of the patient's
stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is restricted, when the movement restriction device is
invaginated, to thereby prevent the cardia from sliding through the patient's diaphragm opening
into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the supporting pressure against the patient's cardia
sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen, the movement restriction device having
a size of at least 125 mm 3 and a circumference of at least 15 mm, further comprising a
stretching device comprising at least one operable stretching device implantable in the obese
patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall such that satiety is
created.
[0054]      In another example, the apparatus is further adapted to treat reflux disease. To this
end, it further comprises an implantable movement restriction device having an outer surface
including a biocompatible material, wherein the movement restriction device is adapted to rest
with at least a part of its outer surface against the patient's stomach fundus wall, in a position
between the patient's diaphragm and the fundus wall, such that movement of the cardiac notch
of the patient's stomach towards the patient's diaphragm is restricted, when the movement
restriction device is implanted in the patient, to thereby prevent the cardia from sliding through

                                                - 14
the patient's diaphragm opening into the patient's thorax, so as to maintain the supporting
pressure against the patient's cardia sphincter muscle exerted from the patient's abdomen,
wherein the movement restriction device having a size of at least 125 mm3 and a
circumference of at least 15 mm, and a fixation device adapted to secure the movement
restriction device in said position, when the movement restriction device is implanted, further
comprising a stretching device comprising at least one operable stretching device implantable
in the obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall such that
satiety is created.
[0055]      In an embodiment, the apparatus further comprises an external control unit for
controlling the volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body. The external control
unit may comprise a wireless remote control adapted to control the device from the outside of
the patient's body. Alternatively, the external control unit may comprise a subcutaneously
placed switch or reservoir adapted to control the device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0056]      In an embodiment, the apparatus further comprises a sensor or sensing device
adapted to be implanted in the patient body, wherein the implantable control unit is adapted to
control the device from the inside of the patient's body using information from said a sensor or
sensing device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food intake of the patient.
[0057]      In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
apparatus for treating obesity of an obese patient having a stomach with a food cavity, the
apparatus comprising at least one volume filling device adapted to be at least substantially
invaginated by a stomach wall portion of the patient and having an outer surface that includes
a biocompatible material, wherein the volume filling device is adapted to be placed inside the
stomach with the outer surface of the volume filling device resting against the inside of the
stomach wall, such that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume
substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device, the volume filling device having
a maximum circumference of at least 30 millimeters.
[0058]      In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus comprises at least one switch implantable
in the patient for manually and non-invasively controlling the volume filling device.
[0059]      In another preferred embodiment, the apparatus comprises a wireless remote control
for non-invasively controlling the volume filling device.

                                                -15
[0060]      In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus comprises a hydraulic operation device for
operating volume filling device.
[0061]      In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises comprising a motor or a pump for
operating the volume filling device.
[0062]      In one embodiment the apparatus comprises an adjustment device for adjusting the
size and/or shape of the volume filling device including at least one of its segments. The size
of the volume filling device can be hydraulically adjustable and the adjustment device
comprises a hydraulic fluid reservoir that, when implanted in the patient, is connected to at
least one of the volume filling device segments, and wherein the size of the volume filling
device is non-invasively regulated by moving hydraulic fluid from the reservoir to at least one
volume filling device segment, thereby adjusting the size of at least one segment of the volume
filling device. The apparatus can further comprise hydraulic regulation device comprising at
least one chamber that, when implanted in the patient, is invaginated in the patient's stomach
wall with the volume filling devices and in being connection therewith, and wherein the amount
of hydraulic fluid contained in at least one of the volume filling device segments is non
invasively regulated by distributing fluid between the hydraulic reservoir and the at least one
chamber. Preferably, the at least one chamber, when implanted in the patient, is filled with the
hydraulic fluid using a pump in the reservoir so as to stretch the fundus wall to create satiety in
the patient. The adjustment device can further comprise a reverse servo comprising three
adjustable reservoirs with hydraulic fluid, wherein a small volume of fluid in a first reservoir
placed subcutaneously, being part of a first closed system including a second reservoir, is
compressed with a high force per area unit for moving a small volume of hydraulic fluid, and
wherein the second reservoir affects a larger volume of hydraulic fluid in a third reservoir, the
third reservoir being part of a second closed system having larger volume than said first
reservoir, thereby creating a movement of a larger total volume of hydraulic fluid with less force
per area unit. The apparatus of the discussed embodiment can comprise a wireless remote
control, wherein the volume filling device, when implanted in the patient, is non-invasively
regulated by the wireless remote control. The apparatus of the discussed embodiment can
further comprise an energy source that powers the adjustable volume filling device when
implanted in a patient. The energy source preferably comprises an internal energy source
implantable in the patient. The energy source can also comprise an external energy source
transmitting wireless energy. The internal energy source, when implanted in the patient can be
chargeable by the wireless energy transmitted by the external energy source. The wireless
remote control can comprise at least one external signal transmitter and receiver, further

                                                  - 16
comprising an internal signal receiver and transmitter implantable in the patient for receiving
signals transmitted by the external signal transmitter and sending feedback signals back to the
remote control. The wireless control signal can comprise an electric or magnetic field, or a
combined electric and magnetic field.
[0063]      In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises a wireless energy transmitter for non
invasively energizing any part of the apparatus in need of energy supplementation. The energy
transmitter preferably transmits energy by at least one wireless energy signal. Preferably, the
wireless energy comprises a wave signal or a field, or the wireless energy signal can comprise
an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic field. The wave signal
preferably is selected from the group consisting of: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave
signal, an electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra
violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x-ray
radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal. The apparatus of this embodiment can further
comprise an implantable accumulator and an energy transforming device transforming wireless
energy to electric energy, wherein the electric energy is used at least partly to charge the
accumulator or to run any energy consuming part of the apparatus direct from the energy
transforming device.
[0064]      In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises a sensor sensing a parameter, a
functional parameter or a physical parameter of the patient. The functional parameter is
correlated to a wireless transfer of energy for charging an internal energy source implantable in
the patient. The apparatus can further comprise a feedback device that, when implanted in the
patient, sends feedback information from inside the patient's body to the outside thereof, the
feedback information being related to the functional parameter. The apparatus can also
comprise an implantable internal control unit for controlling the volume filling device in
response to the sensor sensing the functional parameter. The sensor for sensing the physical
parameter is a pressure sensor or a motility sensor. An implantable internal control unit can
control of the volume filling device of the apparatus in response to the sensor sensing the
physical parameter.
[0065]      In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises an operation device for operating the
volume filling device in order to control its size and/or shape. For this purpose, the operation
device can comprise a motor or a pump.

                                                   -17
[0066]      In one embodiment of the apparatus, the volume filling device is adapted to further
receive wireless energy, wherein the wireless energy is used to power the operation device to
create kinetic energy for the operation of the volume filling device. The wireless energy can for
example be used to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for the
operation of the volume filling device, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by the
energy-transmission device. The volume filling deice may also be adapted to receive energy
from an energy transforming device directly during wireless energy transfer or from an energy
accumulator, being rechargeable by the wireless energy and energy transforming device .The
wireless energy, preferably comprises a wave signal that is selected from the group consisting
of: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an electromagnetic wave signal, an
infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro
wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x-ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal. The
wireless energy signal can also comprise an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric
and magnetic field.
[0067]      In one embodiment of the apparatus it further comprises implantable electrical
components including at least one voltage level guard, or at least one constant current guard.
[0068]      In general terms any applicable feature or embodiment or part of embodiment or
method described herein are, when applicable, valid for both the assembled volume filling
device as well as for the volume filling device segments.
[0069]     Advantageously, the present invention provides obesity treatment apparatus, system
and methods with improved long term properties.
[0070]      It is understood that a skilled person is in the position of combining steps, changing
the order of steps, and combining elements of the different embodiments of the invention
without inventive effort, and without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the
description and claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0071]      The present invention will now be described in more detail by way of non-limiting
examples and with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0072]      Fig. 1 is an overall view of a patient showing the outlines of the stomach,

                                                  -18
[0073]     Fig. 2a is a view of a first embodiment of an apparatus for treating obesity implanted
in a human patient,
[0074]     Fig. 2b is a sectional view taken along line |lb - lb of Fig. 2a,
[0075]     Figs. 3a-k, 3m, 3n, 3p show different shapes and features of a volume filling device
comprised in an apparatus according to the invention,
[0076]     Figs. 4a-d show a deflated inflatable volume filling device comprised in an apparatus
according to the invention and an instrument for placing the volume filling device,
[0077]     Figs. 5a-i illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 4a on
the outside of a stomach wall of a patient,
[0078]     Figs. 6-8 show alternative embodiments wherein the volume filling device is adapted
to be non-invasively adjustable postoperatively,
[0079]     Figs. 9 and 10 show embodiments wherein the volume filling device is adapted to be
invaginated in the fundus region of the patient's stomach,
[0080]     Fig. 11 shows an example of a volume filling device is also adapted to treat reflux,
[0081]     Fig. 12 show an example wherein the volume filling device adapted also for treating
reflux is combined with stretching devices for stretching part of the stomach fundus wall,
[0082]     Figs. 13-16 show examples wherein a combination of a volume filling device and a
stretching device is used,
[0083]     Figs. 17a and 17b show an embodiment wherein the volume filling device is provided
on the inside of the stomach wall,
[0084]     Figs. 18a-h illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 4a on
the inside of a stomach wall of a patient,
[0085]     Figs. 19a-j illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 4a on
the inside of a stomach wall of a patient,

                                                 -19
[0086]     Figs. 20a-f illustrate different steps of invaginating the inflatable device of Fig. 4a on
the inside of a stomach wall of a patient,
[0087]     Figs. 21a and 21b show instruments for surgically applying the implantable
apparatus.
[0088]     Fig. 22 is an overall view of a patient with an implanted apparatus for treating
obesity,
[0089]     Figs. 23-41 show various ways of powering an apparatus for treating obesity
implanted in a human patient,
[0090]     Figs. 42-47 show various ways of arranging hydraulic or pneumatic powering of an
apparatus for treating obesity implanted in a human patient,
[0091]     Fig. 48 illustrate the invagination of a plurality volume filling devices, and
[0092]     Figs. 49a and 49b illustrate an abdominal method.
[0093]     Fig. 50 shows an embodiment of the volume filling device in segments before
assembly.
[0094]     Fig. 51 shows an embodiment of the volume filling device when first part and second
part are assembled.
[0095]     Fig. 52 shows the embodiment of Fig. 51 when a third and a fourth part are
assembled.
[0096]     Fig. 53 shows the embodiment of Fig. 52 when assembling the final part.
[0097]     Fig. 54 shows the embodiment of Figs.50-53 when finally assembled.
[0098]     Fig. 55a shows the core part of the embodiment of Fig. 50 with the operation
channels.
[0099]     Figs 55b to 55f show crossectional views of the core part of Fig. 55a according to
planes 1-1; II-II, Ill-Ill, IV-IV, respectively.

                                                - 20
[0100]     Figs. 56 and 57 show different embodiments of the volume filling device segments.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0101]     Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference
to the drawing figures.
[0102]     Fig. 1 shows a human patent 1, who is being treated for obesity. A volume filling
device 10 is provided so that it reduces the inner volume of the stomach 12 - the food cavity of
the stomach, thereby affecting the patient's appetite. The function and the operation of this
volume filling device will be described and explained in detail in the following description.
[0103]     Figs. 2a and 2b show in detail a first embodiment of an apparatus to treat obesity
according to the invention, wherein Fig. 2a show a side view of the stomach while Fig. 2b is a
sectional view taken along line |lb - lb of Fig 2a. The apparatus comprises a volume filling
device 10 implanted in a human patient. More specifically, in the embodiment of Fig. 2a the
volume filling device 10 is invaginated in the wall 12a of the patient's stomach 12 on the
outside of the stomach wall. The body of the volume filling device 10 is elongated and shaped
to rest against the wall 12a of the stomach 12 and further has an outer surface suitable to rest
against this wall.
[0104]     By invaginating the volume filling device 10 in part of the stomach wall, the size of
the food cavity, generally designated 12b in Fig. 2b, will be reduced, resulting in a more rapid
feeling of satiety after food intake.
[0105]     The volume filling device 10 preferably comprises an elastic material, such as
silicone. In this way, the volume filling device can adapt to the movements of the stomach, the
degree of food intake etc.
[0106]     By providing the volume filling device from a bio-compatible material, the risk of the
patient's body rejecting the implant is to a very large extent reduced.
[0107]     The volume filling device 10 can be fixed to the wall 12a of the stomach 12 in a
number of different ways. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 2b, the volume filling device 10 is
invaginated in the stomach wall 12a. After invagination, a number of stomach-to-stomach
sutures or staples 14 are applied to keep the invagination in the short term. This allows growth
of human tissue, keeping the invagination in the long term.

                                                  - 21
[0108]       The volume filling device 10 preferably has an essentially round shape to not
damage the stomach wall. An example thereof is shown in Fig. 3a, wherein the volume filling
device is essentially egg-shaped. In another preferred embodiment, the volume filling device is
slightly bent, such as the embodiment shown in Fig. 3b. However, since the stomach wall is
strong many different shapes, forms, and dimensions may be used. In one embodiment, the
volume filling device has a diameter of about 40 millimeters and a length of about 120
millimeters, resulting in a volume that is about half the volume of the patient's stomach.
However, it is preferred that the maximum circumference of the volume filling device is at least
30 millimeters, more preferably at least 50 millimeters, and even more preferably at least 80
millimeters.
[0109]       It is not necessary that the volume filling device is elongated. In the embodiment
shown in Fig. 3c, the volume filling device 10 is essentially spherical or ball-shaped. In order to
fill out the stomach, two or more such volume filling devices may be combined to achieve the
desired decrease of the food cavity of the patient's stomach.
[0110]       It has been mentioned that the volume filling device is secured by the stomach-to
stomach sutures or staples. In order to further improve the fixation, the volume filling device
may be provided with a waist portion having smaller diameter that the maximum diameter of
the volume filling device. Such volume filling device having a waist portion 1Oa is shown in Fig.
3d.
[0111]       The volume filling device 10 may consist of at least two interconnectable portions so
that each portion is easier to insert into the stomach and further through a hole in the stomach
wall. Thus, Fig. 3e shows a volume filling device comprising two more or less spherical sub
parts 1Ob, 1Oc interconnected by a portion with which preferably has smaller diameter. The
portion with smaller diameter may comprise an interconnection means with a reversible
function allowing subsequent disconnection of the two interconnected sub-parts 1Ob, 1Oc.
Such means may comprise a bayonet socket, a screw connection or the like, designated 1Od
in the figure. Alternatively, the portion with smaller diameter may comprise a fixed
interconnection, such as resilient locking hooks provided on one of the sub-parts 1Ob, 1Oc and
engaging the rim of a hole provided in the other one of the sub-parts 1Ob, 1Oc.
[0112]       The configuration of the volume filling device 10 is not limited to one waist portion
10a. Thus, in Fig. 3f a volume filling device with two waist portions is shown.

                                                    - 22
[0113]      In order to facilitate positioning of the volume filling device, an attachment means in
the form of a handle or the like may be provided on the outer surface of the volume filling
device. One example thereof is shown in Fig. 3g, wherein also a detail view of a handle 10e is
shown. In a preferred embodiment, the attachment means is provide at an end portion of the
volume filling device 10. In order to avoid protruding portion on the surface of the volume filling
device 10, the handle 10e is provided flush with the outer surface of the volume filling device
10 and a recess 1Of is arranged to allow a gripping tool or instrument (not shown in Fig. 3g) to
achieve firm gripping around the handle 10e.
[0114]      The volume filling device may comprise a tube for filling or emptying the volume
filling device of a fluid or gel. By injecting fluid or gel into the volume filling device 10, the
volume filling device is inflated to an inflated state, as will be described below. The size of the
volume filling device can also be adjusted by moving fluid or gel therefrom to a different
reservoir.
[0115]      A volume filling device 10 adapted for this is shown in Fig. 3h. A tube lOg is fixedly
attached to the volume filling device. This tube can be attached to a suitable instrument (not
shown) or an injection port, which will be explained in detail below.
[0116]      Instead of having a fixedly attached tube, the volume filling device 10 may comprise
an inlet port 10h adapted for connection of a separate tube (not shown in this figure).
[0117]      It is important that the implanted volume filling device is firmly kept in place in the
stomach wall in which it is invaginated. To this end, the volume filling device can be provided
with one or more through holes adapted for receiving sutures or staples used for fixation of the
invagination. Such an embodiment is shown in Fig. 3j, where the volume filling device 10 is
provided with a row of holes 1Oi provided on a protruding flange-like protrusion on the volume
filling device. In this embodiment, the row of holes extend along the longitudinal axis of the
volume filling device.
[0118]      Fig. 3k illustrates how sutures 14 are provided so that they run through the stomach
wall 12a and through the holes 10i. In this way, the volume filling device is fixed in place in the
pouch created from the stomach wall and will thus be prevented from sliding.
[0119]      Although a plurality of holes is illustrated in the Fig. 3j, it will be appreciated that one
single hole is sufficient to obtain improved fixation of the volume filling device 10.

                                                  - 23
[0120]      Fig. 3m illustrates a volume filling device provided with an inlet port 10h. The volume
filling device is invaginated in the stomach wall and the inlet port 1Oh is available for
connection to a tube or the like from the abdominal area of the patient.
[0121]      Fig. 3n illustrates an invaginated volume filling device wherein, instead of an inlet
port, a fixed tube 10g extends into the abdominal area of the patient.
[0122]      Fig. 3p is a figure similar to Fig. 3m but also illustrating tunneling of a connection
tube 1Og in the stomach wall between the inlet port 10h and the volume filling device 10.
[0123]      It has been shown that the shape of the volume filling device can take many different
forms. It will be appreciated that also the material of the volume filling device can vary. It is
preferred that the volume filling device is provided with a coating, such as a Parylene,
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), or polyurethane coating, or a combination of such coatings,
i.e., a multi-layer coating. This coating or multi-layer coating improves the properties of the
volume filling device, such as its resistance to wear.
[0124]      In one embodiment, the volume filling device comprises an inflatable device
expandable to an expanded state. In this case, the inflatable device is provided with an inlet
port for a fluid and is adapted to be connected to a gastroscopic instrument. This embodiment
will now be described in detail with reference to Figs. 4a-4d.
[0125]      An inflatable volume filling device in its non-expanded state is shown in Fig. 4a. It is
essentially a balloon-like, deflated device 10 having an inlet port 10h. In this state, the
inflatable device has a diameter of a few millimeters at the most, allowing it to be inserted into
the stomach through the esophagus of the patient by means of a gastroscopic, tube-like
instrument 600, depicted in figure 4b. The instrument comprises an outer sleeve 600a and an
inner sleeve 600b which can be displaced longitudinally relatively to the outer sleeve. The
inner sleeve is provided with a cutter in the form of a cutting edge 615 at the distal end thereof.
This cutting edge can be used for cutting a hole in the stomach wall, as will be explained in
detail in the following.
[0126]      When the instrument reaches a stomach wall, see Fig. 4c, the inner sleeve is
brought forward from its position in the outer sleeve and into contact with the stomach wall
12a. The cutting edge 615 of the inner sleeve then cuts a hole in the stomach wall so as to
allow subsequent insertion of the volume filling device 10 into and through this hole, see Fig.

                                                 - 24
4d. In order to push the volume filling device through the hole, a piston 602 may be provided in
the instrument. Thus, the instrument further comprises a piston 602 adapted for pushing a
deflated volume filling device 10 out from a position in the inner sleeve, this position being
shown in Fig. 4b, to a position outside of the inner sleeve, this being shown in Fig. 4d.
[0127]      In order to protect the deflated volume filling device 10 from the cutting edge 615 of
the inner sleeve, a further protective sleeve (not shown) can be provided around the volume
filling device.
[0128]      An intraluminar method of invaginating a volume filling device 10 on the outside of
the stomach wall 12a will now be described with reference to Figs. 5a-i. Initially, an instrument
600, preferably a gastroscopic instrument, is inserted into the mouth of the patient, see Fig. 5a.
The instrument comprises an injection device 601, 602 for injecting either fluid or a device into
the stomach of the patient. The instrument 600 further comprises a control unit 606 adapted for
controlling the operation of the instrument. To this end, the control unit 606 comprises one or
more steering devices, in the example shown in the figure in the form of two joysticks 603 and
two control buttons 604. A display 605 is provided for displaying the image provided by an
optical device for viewing inside the stomach, such as a camera (not shown) arranged at the
outer end of the elongated member 607, see Figs. 5e-i. The camera, which may comprise
connecting electrical wires extending along the elongated member, may be assisted by a light
source (not shown) placed distally on the elongated member for illuminating the inside of the
stomach. The optical device may also comprise optical fibers placed along the elongated
member and leading out from the patient's body for external viewing of the inside of the
stomach.
[0129]      The instrument is further inserted into the esophagus and into the stomach of the
patient, see Fig. 5b. By means of the instrument 600, a hole 12b is created in the wall of the
stomach 12. To this end, the instrument is provided with one or more cutters 615 at the distal
end thereof, for example in the way described above with reference to Figs. 4a-d. These
cutters can of course be designed in different ways, such as a toothed drum cutter rotating
about the center axis of the tube-like instrument.
[0130]      After cutting a hole in the stomach wall, the distal end of the instrument 600 is
inserted into and through the hole 12b so that it ends up outside the stomach wall 12a. This is
shown in Fig. 5c, showing a side view of the stomach 12, and Fig. 5d, which is a sectional view
through the stomach of Fig. 5c taken along the lines Vd - Vd.

                                                 - 25
[0131]      The instrument 600 is adapted to create a "pocket" or "pouch" on the outside of the
stomach 12 around the hole 12b in the stomach wall. Such an instrument and the method of
providing the pouch will now be described.
[0132]      Figs. 5e-i show a gastroscopic or laparoscopic instrument for invaginating a volume
filling device 10 in the stomach wall 12a of the patient by creating a pouch of stomach wall 12a
material in which the volume filling device is placed. The instrument, generally designated 600,
and which may comprise the features described above with reference to Figs. 4a-d, comprises
an elongated member 607 having a proximal end and a distal end, the elongated member 607
having a diameter less than that of the patient's esophagus and being flexible such as to allow
introduction of the flexible elongated member 607 with its distal end first through the patient's
throat, esophagus and into the stomach 12 to the stomach wall 12a.
[0133]      The stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is provided on the elongated member
607 at the distal en thereof for penetrating the stomach wall 12a so as to create a hole in the
stomach wall 12a, to allow introduction of the elongated member 607 through the hole. The
stomach penetration device 615 could be adapted to be operable for retracting said stomach
penetration device 615 after the stomach fundus wall 12a has been penetrated, for not further
damaging tissue within the body. The instrument further comprises a special holding device
609 provided on the elongated member 607 on the proximal side to the penetration device
615.
[0134]      The elongated member further comprises an expandable member 611 which is
adapted to be expanded after the elongated member has penetrated the stomach wall 12a and
thereby assist in the creation of a cavity or pouch adapted to hold the volume filling device 610.
The expandable member 611 may comprise an inflatable circular balloon provided
circumferentially around the distal end portion of the flexible elongated member 607.
[0135]      The method steps when invaginating the volume filling device will now be described
in detail. After the instrument 600 has been inserted into the stomach 12, the stomach
penetration device 615 is placed into contact with the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 5e. The
stomach penetration device or cutter 615 is then brought to create the hole 12b in the stomach
wall, whereafter at least the expandable member 611 is brought through the hole 12b in the
stomach wall. The special holding device 609 is in this step brought to a holding state wherein
it expands radially so as to form an essentially circular abutment surface to the stomach wall
12a, see Fig. 5f. In this way, the insertion of the stomach penetration device 615 and the

                                                     - 26
expandable member 611 through the hole 12a in the stomach wall is limited to the position
shown in Fig. 5f.
[0136]       The expandable member 611 is then expanded. In the case the expandable member
comprises a balloon or the like, air or other fluid is injected into it.
[0137]       The part of the elongated member 607 comprising the expandable member 611 is
then retracted in the proximal direction, as indicated by the arrow in Fig. 5g, thereby pulling
the stomach wall 612 into a basket or cup like structure created by the special holding device
609.
[0138]       A suturing or stapling device 608 is further provided, either as a device connected to
the elongated member 607 or as a separate instrument. The suturing or stapling member
comprises a suturing or stapling end 613 which is adapted to close the cavity or pouch by
means of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14.
[0139]       In a further step, illustrated in Fig. 5h, an inflatable volume filling device 10 is placed
in its deflated state in the cup like structure. The volume filling device 10 is then inflated to its
inflated or expanded state, see Fig. 5i. This inflation of the volume filling device 10 can be
accomplished by injecting a fluid or a gel into the deflated volume filling device. It can also be
accomplished by injecting a material which is allowed to cure, thereby forming a solid device
10. Thus, the volume filling device 10 shown in Figs. 5h and 5i can illustrate either a balloon
like device which is subsequently filled with fluid or gel or alternatively a material which is
simply injected into the cup like structure formed by the stomach wall 12a.
[0140]       The fluid which is used to fill the volume filling device 10 could be any suitable fluid
suitable to fill the inflatable device 10, such as a salt solution. In another example, when this
fluid is a fluid which is adapted to be transformed into solid state, the fluid could be liquid
polyurethane.
[0141]       In order to minimize or entirely eliminate leakage, the fluid is iso-tonic, i.e., it has the
same osmolarity as human body fluids. Another way of preventing diffusion is to provide a fluid
which comprises large molecules, such as iodine molecules.
[0142]       The stomach-to-stomach sutures or staples are preferably provided with fixation
portions exhibiting a structure, such as a net like structure, adapted to be in contact with the

                                                   - 27
stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure the long term placement of the
volume filling device attached to the stomach wall.
[0143]      After the inflatable device 10 has been inflated, partly or fully, the inlet port 1Ob (not
shown in Figs. 5h and 5i) of the volume filling devicelO, is sealed and the instrument 600 is
retracted from the hole 12b, which is subsequently closed in some suitable way, such as by
means of the instrument 600. The instrument is then removed from the stomach 600 and the
inflatable device 10 in its inflated or expanded state is invaginated by a stomach wall portion of
the patient on the outside of the stomach wall. This reduces the inner volume of the stomach,
thereby affecting the patent's appetite.
[0144]      During one or more of the above described steps, the stomach may be inflated with
gas, preferably by means of the gastroscopic instrument.
[0145]      The volume filling device 10 described above with reference to Figs. 5a-i has been
described as an inflatable volume filling device. It will be appreciated that is also can be an
elastic volume filling device with an elasticity allowing compression so as to be inserted into a
gastroscopic instrument and which expands to an expanded state after leaving the instrument.
[0146]      An alternative embodiment of an apparatus for treating obesity will now be described
with reference to Figs. 6a and 6b, showing a sectional view of a stomach in which a volume
filling device is invaginated in the stomach wall on the outside thereof together with a system
for regulating the size of the volume filling device. The volume filling device is an inflatable
device as described above with reference to Figs. 5a-h and thus comprises a fluid. The
inflatable device 10 thus forms a fluid chamber, in which fluid is allowed to flow. The inflatable
device thereby forms an expandable chamber that can change the volume it occupies in the
stomach wall, thereby forming a hydraulically or pneumatically regulated inflatable device.
[0147]      In Fig. 6a, an injection port 16 for fluids is connected to the inflatable volume filling
device 10 by means of a conduit 18 in the form of a tube. The inflatable device 10 is thereby
adapted to be regulated, preferably non-invasively, by moving liquid or air from the injection
port 16 to the chamber formed by the inflatable device. By using a hypodermic needle or the
like, the amount of fluid in the inflatable device 10 can thus be adjusted, thereby adjusting the
size of the adjustable device. The injection port 16 can also be used simply for refilling the
volume filling device 10.

                                                  - 28
[0148]      The regulation reservoir 17 can be regulated in several ways. In an alternative
embodiment, the regulation reservoir 17 is regulated by manually pressing a regulation
reservoir. In other words, the regulation reservoir is regulated by moving a wall of the reservoir.
It is then preferred that the regulation reservoir is placed subcutaneously and non-invasive
regulation is thereby achieved.
[0149]      A similar embodiment is shown in Fig. 6b. However, in this embodiment the injection
port 16 has been replaced by an adjustable regulation reservoir 17 in fluid connecting with the
volume filling device 10 via a tube 18. When the regulation reservoir 17 is pressed, the volume
thereof decreases and hydraulic fluid is moved from the reservoir to the chamber formed by
the inflatable device 10 via the conduit or tube 18, enlarging or expanding the inflatable device
10. In this way, the volume filling device is non-invasively adjustable postoperatively.
[0150]      It will be appreciated that instead of hydraulic operation, pneumatic operation can be
used, wherein air instead of hydraulic fluid is moved between the regulation reservoir and the
chamber formed by the inflatable device 10. Preferable the regulation reservoir has a locking
position to keep it in the desired position. If the patient compresses the reservoir it preferably
stays compressed and releases after pressing again.
[0151]      Any kind of hydraulic solution may be used for the inflatable device. The hydraulic
solution may be driven by both mechanically and be powered with any motor or pump as well
as manually.
[0152]      In another embodiment, shown in Fig. 7, a motor 40 is adapted to move a wall of the
regulation reservoir 17. The powered regulation reservoir 17 is then preferably placed in the
abdomen of the patient. In this embodiment, a wireless external remote control unit forming
part of the external energy transmission device 34 can be provided to perform non-invasive
regulation of the motor via an energy transforming device 30, which is adapted to supply an
energy consuming operation device, in the present example the motor 40, with energy via a
power supply line 32.
[0153]      The remote control may comprise a wireless energy transmitter, whereby the non
invasive regulation is performed by the energy transmitter. When the regulation is performed
by means of a remote control an internal power source for powering the regulating device is
provided. The internal energy source can for example be a chargeable implanted battery or a
capacitor or a device for receiving wireless energy transmitted from outside the body of the

                                                  - 29
patient. Different ways of regulating the inflatable device 10 will be described below with
reference to Figs. 22-41.
[0154]      In yet an alternative embodiment, shown in Fig.8, the apparatus for treating obesity
comprises a pump 44, wherein the reservoir is regulated by the pump 44 pumping fluid or air
from the reservoir to the chamber formed by the inflatable device. Different configurations of
this pump will be described below with reference to Figs. 22-41.
[0155]      Yet an alternative embodiment of an apparatus for treating obesity will now be
described with reference to Fig. 9, which shows a stomach 12 of a patient who is treated for
obesity. This embodiment is similar to the one described above with reference to Fig. 7 and the
apparatus comprises a volume filling device in the form of an inflatable device 10 which is
invaginated in the wall 12a of the patient's stomach 12. However, in this case the invagination
has been performed in the fundus, i.e., the upper portion of the stomach, where the number of
receptors in the stomach wall is large, and the inflatable device functions as a stretching
device for part of the stomach fundus wall.
[0156]      A regulation reservoir 17 for fluids is connected to the inflatable device by means of
a conduit 18 in the form of a tube. The inflatable device 10 is thereby adapted to be regulated,
preferably non-invasively, by moving liquid or air from the regulation reservoir 17 to the
chamber formed by the inflatable device 10. The regulation of the inflatable device 10
preferably comprises a reversed servo, i.e., a small volume is actuated for example by the
patient's finger and this small volume is in connection with a larger volume, i.e., the regulation
reservoir 17.
[0157]      Thus, the inflatable device 10 is placed outside the stomach wall and is adapted to
stretch a part of the stomach fundus wall, thereby affecting the patient's appetite. By enlarging
the size of the stretching device, the stomach fundus wall 12a surrounding the inflatable
stretching device 10 is stretched since the circumference of the inflatable stretching device 10
is increased. By this stretching, the receptors in the stomach wall indicate that the stomach is
full, thereby creating a feeling of satiety to the patient. Correspondingly, when the stretching
device 10 is contracted, the receptors indicate that the stomach is not full, thereby returning
the feeling of hunger. It will be appreciated that this example combines the effects of both
reducing the volume of the stomach food cavity and stretching part of the stomach wall,
thereby increasing the treatment effect.

                                                 - 30
[0158]      The expansion and contraction of the stretching device 10 can be performed under
direct control of the patient. Alternatively, the expansion and contraction can be performed
according to a pre-programmed schedule.
[0159]      In a preferred embodiment, shown in Fig. 10, a sensor 19 is provided at a suitable
position, such as at the esophagus. The volume filling device 10 in the form of the inflatable
stretching device is similar to the one shown in Fig. 9. By providing one or more sensors, the
apparatus for treating obesity can be automated in that the size of the volume filling device 10
in the form of the inflatable stretching device is adjusted depending on the amount of food
entering the food cavity of the stomach. The fluid is thereby moved between the inflatable
volume filling device 10 and a fluid reservoir 15.
[0160]      The apparatus for treating obesity can have the additional functionality of treating
reflux. An example having this function is shown in Fig. 11, wherein the volume filling device
10 is invaginated in the stomach wall close to and at least partially above the patient's cardia
26 when the patient is in a standing position and is fixed to a position above the cardia area 26
by a fixation, such as sutures or staples 14a. For example a direct or indirect fixation to the
diaphragm muscle or other muscle tissue may be provided. As an alternative a direct or
indirect fixation to the esophagus above and close to the angle of His can be provided. In this
alternative example, the volume filling device 10 rests in a position against stomach wall of the
fundus when implanted and which also fills a volume above the cardia area 26 between the
cardia and the diaphragm muscle so that the cardia is prevented from slipping up into the
thorax cavity, whereby reflux disease is prevented.
[0161]      Such a volume filling device 10 may be used for keeping electronics and/or an
energy source and/or hydraulic fluid. Hydraulic fluid from that device may be distributed to
several smaller inflatable device areas to vary the stretching area from time to time avoiding
any possible more permanent stretching effect of the stomach wall. Even mechanically several
stretching areas may be used.
[0162]      In an alternative embodiment, which is shown in Fig. 12, the volume of an inflatable
volume filling device 10 may be in fluid connection with one or more preferably smaller
inflatable devices or chambers 50. These chambers are adapted to communicate with fluid or
air being moved between the chambers.

                                                 - 31
[0163]      Thus, the large chamber 10 is adapted to, with its main volume to be a volume filling
device for reducing the size of the food cavity and for treating reflux disease and the one or
several small chambers are adapted to function as the inflatable devices to treat obesity,
wherein the main chamber is adapted to communicate with fluid or air to the small chambers
causing a stretching effect in the stomach wall thereby further treating obesity.
[0164]      In Figs. 13-16, different example embodying a combination of a volume filling device
invaginated in the central or lower portion of the stomach and a stretching device invaginated
in the upper portion or fundus of the patient's stomach. Thus, in Fig. 13 there is shown an
adjustable volume filling device 10, which is invaginated in the stomach wall of a patient's
stomach 12. Additionally, an adjustable stretching device 50 with the previously described
function is invaginated in the stomach fundus wall of the patient. It is preferred that the volume
filling device 10 is substantially larger than the stretching device 50.
[0165]      The volume filling device 10 and the stretching device 50 are in fluid communication
with each other via a fluid communication device comprising a first fluid tube 52, in which a
pump 54 is provided. The pump 54 is under the control from an energy transforming device 30,
which is adapted to supply the pump 50 with energy via a power supply line 56. The energy
transforming device 30 is also connected to a sensor 19 provided in the esophagus of the
patient so that food intake can be detected.
[0166]      The volume filling device 10 and the stretching device 50 are also in fluid
communication with each other via a second fluid tube 58, which preferably has a smaller
cross-sectional area than the first fluid tube 52.
[0167]      The operation of this arrangement is as follows. The volume filling device 10
functions as in the above described embodiments, i.e., it reduces the size of the food cavity of
the patient's stomach 12. Additionally, when the stretching device 50 is enlarged by pumping
fluid from the volume filling device 10 and to the stretching device 50 by means of the pump
54, the stomach fundus wall is stretched, creating a feeling of satiety for the patient. Thus, for
example when food intake is detected by means of the sensor 19, fluid is automatically
pumped into the stretching device 50 to increase the feeling of satiety and thereby limit the
food intake.
[0168]      When fluid has been injected into the stretching device 50, the internal pressure
therein is higher than the internal pressure in the volume filling device 10. This difference in

                                                 - 32
pressure will create a flow of fluid in the second, preferably narrower tube 58 from the
stretching device 50 to the volume filling device 10. The flow rate will be determined by among
other things the difference in pressure and the cross-sectional area of the second tube 58. It is
preferred that the second tube is so dimensioned, that the pressures in the volume filling
device 10 and the stretching device 50 will return to equilibrium after 3 hours after fluid has
been injected into the stretching device 50 to create the feeling of satiety.
[0169]     In this example, the function of the second tube 58 is to allow fluid to return from the
stretching device 50 to the volume filling device 10. It will be appreciated that this function also
can be performed by the pump 54 in the first tube 52 and that the second tube 58 then can be
omitted.
[0170]     Fig. 14 illustrates an example similar to the one illustrated in Fig. 13. Thus, there is
provided an adjustable volume filling device 10, which is invaginated in the stomach wall of a
patient's stomach 12. Additionally, an adjustable stretching device 50 with the previously
described function is invaginated in the stomach fundus wall of the patient. It is preferred that
the volume filling device 10 is substantially larger than the stretching device 50.
[0171]     The volume filling device 10 and the stretching device 50 are in fluid communication
with each other via a first fluid tube 52, and a second fluid tube, which preferably has a smaller
cross-sectional area than the first tube. However, instead of a pump, there is provided a non
return valve 60 in the first fluid tube 52 instead of an energized pump. This non-return valve 60
allows fluid to flow in the direction from the volume filling device 10 and to the stretching device
10 but not vice verse. This means that this example may be entirely non-energized. Instead, it
operates according to the following principles.
[0172]     When the food cavity of the stomach 12 is essentially empty, there is a state of
equilibrium between the internal pressure of the volume filling device 10 and the stretching
device 50. In this state, the stretching device is in a non-stretch state, i.e., it does not stretch a
part of the stomach fundus wall and thus does not create a feeling of satiety.
[0173]     When the patient starts to eat, food will enter the food cavity of the stomach 12. This
will create increased pressure on the stomach wall in which the volume filling device 10 is
invaginated and the internal pressure therein will increase. Also, the stomach wall muscles will
begin to process the food in the food cavity by contraction, which also contributes to an
increased internal pressure in the volume filling device 10.

                                                - 33
[0174]     Since the internal pressure in the stretching device 50 will remain essentially
unchanged, because it is located in the upper part of the stomach 12 where no food is exerting
a pressure on the stomach wall, a fluid flow will be created through the first and second fluid
tubes 52, 58 in the direction from the volume filling device 10 and to the stretching device 50.
This in turn will increase the volume of the stretching device 50, which, by stretching the
stomach fundus wall, will provide a feeling of satiety to the patient.
[0175]     A fluid flow from the stretching device 50 to the volume filling device 10 through the
second tube 58 will return the pressure of these devices to equilibrium as described above with
reference to Fig. 13.
[0176]     Fig. 15 illustrates an example, which is similar to the one shown in Fig. 14 but with
the addition of an injection port 16, which is used for refilling the fluid system comprising the
volume filling device 10 and the stretching device 50 or alternatively for actively adjusting the
size thereof.
[0177]     Similarly, Fig. 16 illustrates an example wherein the stretching device 50 can be
actively regulated by manually pressing an adjustment reservoir which is provided
subcutaneously below the patient's skin, similar to the embodiment shown in Fig. 9. Thus, a
regulation reservoir 17 for fluids is connected to the inflatable device by means of a conduit 18
in the form of a tube. The stretching device 50 is thereby adapted to be regulated, non
invasively, by moving liquid or air from the regulation reservoir 17 to the chamber formed by
the inflatable device. The regulation of the stretching device 50 preferably comprises a
reversed servo, i.e., a small volume is actuated for example by the patient's finger and this
small volume is in connection with a larger volume.
[0178]     An alternative placement of the volume filling device 10 is shown in Figs. 17a and
17b, wherein Fig. 17b shows a sectional view through the stomach shown in Fig. 17a along the
line XVIlb - XVIIb. There, the volume filling device 10 is adapted to be placed inside the wall of
the stomach 12, such as via a gastroscope or similar intraluminar instrument, and resting
against the inside of the stomach wall 12a. The inflatable device can be kept invaginated by
means of sutures or staples 14, like in the embodiment of Figs. 2a and 2b. In this embodiment,
no hole is required in the stomach wall. Instead, a method of providing the volume filling device
10 can comprise the following steps, which will be explained with reference to Figs. 18a-i
showing an invagination instrument

                                                  - 34
[0179]      The invagination instrument, generally designated 630, comprises an elongated tube
member 632 similar to the elongated member 607 described above with reference to Figs. 5a
i. Thus, it can be connected to a control unit 606, see Fig. 5a. The invagination instrument 630
further comprises a perforated suction portion 634, which preferably is elongated. The suction
portion 634 exhibits a plurality of small holes 636, into which air will be sucked by providing
suction in the tube member 632. This suction effect will be used to create a "pocket" or
"pouch" in a part of a stomach wall, generally designated 12a.
[0180]      In other words, when the tip of the suction portion 634 is pressed against the
stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 18a, a small recess will be formed therein. When the suction
portion 634 is further pressed against the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 18b, a larger recess will
be formed. The part of the stomach wall 12a that forms the recess will, due to the suction
effect, adhere to the suction portion 634 of the invagination instrument 630. As the suction
portion 634 is further pressed into the stomach wall 12a, see Fig. 18c, a deeper recess will be
formed until the entire suction portion 634 is embedded in the recess, see Fig. 18d.
[0181]      The rim of the recess will at this stage be fixated by means of fixation elements 638
and the suction portion be removed from the instrument, see Fig. 18e. A compressed elastic
volume filling device 10 will subsequently be inserted into the recess, see Fig. 18f, for example
in the way described above with reference to Fig. 4d. This compressed volume filling device is
then expanded to its final shape, see Fig. 18g, where after the pouch is sealed by suturing or
stapling by means of the fixations elements, see Fig. 18h.
[0182]      All the alternatives described above with reference to Figs. 2-16 are also applicable
to the embodiment described with reference to Figs. 17 and 18, i.e., to the embodiment where
the volume filling device is invaginated on the inside of the stomach wall.
[0183]      Figs. 19a-j show an instrument for use in a method of engaging a volume filling
device 10 to the stomach wall 12 of a patient. The instrument is adapted to be inserted through
a narrow tube shaped object such as a gastroscope, used in an intraluminar procedure, or a
laparoscopic trocar used in a laparoscopic procedure. The instrument comprises an elongated
member 650 which is adapted to be flexible by means of a construction comprising multiple
ring shaped members, however it is equally conceivable that said elongated member 650 is
adapted to be flexible by means of said elongated member 650 being made of a flexible or
adjustable material. The elongated member 650 is inserted into the body and placed in
proximity to the stomach wall 12 of the patient, from the outside or inside thereof. The

                                                 - 35
elongated member 650 has a special holding device 651 adapted to hold the stomach by
means of mechanical grabbing members or vacuum. The special holding device 651
comprises a first joint 652 and a second joint 653, which enable the special holding device 651
be operable in relation to the elongated member 650 and thereby place the part of the holding
device 651 comprising the mechanical grabbing members or vacuum elements into contact
with the stomach wall 12 of the patient. Fig. 19b shows the special holding device 651 when
placed in contact with the stomach wall 12 of the human patient, after which the special
holding member 651 connects to the stomach wall 12, for holding the stomach wall 12. Fig.
19c shows the instrument when the step of advancing a pushing rod 654 from the elongated
member 650 is performed. The pushing rod 654 pushes the stomach wall 12 to create a cavity
or pouch thereof. Fig. 19d shows the instrument turned 900 in relation to figs. 19a-c. This view
shows the special holding members 651 a,b operably attached to two sides of the elongated
member 650 and being in contact with the stomach wall 12, holding the stomach wall 12 as the
pushing rod 654 pushes to create a cavity or pouch. When the pushing rod 654 has pushed
the stomach wall 12 to a desired position the special holding devices 651a,b moves towards
the pushing rod 654 and thereby closes the cavity or pouch.
[0184]      After the cavity or pouch has been created it needs to be sealed. Fig. 19f shows the
advancement of a suturing or stapling device 655 from the elongated member 650. The
suturing or stapling device 655 is positioned in connection with the stomach wall after which
the suturing or stapling device commences with the suturing or stapling of the stomach wall 12,
creating a seal of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14. The instrument is moved along
the stomach wall 12 of the patient and thereby a cavity or pouch is created and sealed using
the instrument, as shown in fig. 19g and 19h. When a cavity or pouch or desired size has been
created and sealed an inserting member 656 is advanced from the elongated member 650.
The inserting member 656 is adapted to insert a volume filling device 10 being inflatable, as
described earlier in this application. After the inserting member 656 has been positioned in the
cavity or pouch the volume filling device 10 is inserted through the inserting member 656 and
into the cavity or pouch by means of a pressurized fluid or gas, or a mechanical advancement
member pushing said inflatable volume filling device 10 into the cavity or pouch. The insertion
member then inflates the inflatable volume filling device with a fluid or gas and seals of the
final section of the pouch using stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14. The example
described explains the process of inserting an inflatable volume filling device, however it is
equally conceivable that the volume filling device 10 is expandable by means of the volume
filling device 10 being made of an elastic material.

                                                 - 36
[0185]      Figs. 20a-f show an instrument for use in a method of engaging a volume filling
device 10 to the stomach wall 12 of a patient. The instrument is adapted to be inserted through
a narrow tube shaped object such as a gastroscope, used in an intraluminar procedure, or a
laparoscopic trocar used in a laparoscopic procedure. The instrument comprises an elongated
member 660 which is adapted to be flexible by means of a construction comprising multiple
ring shaped members, however it is equally conceivable that said elongated member 660 is
adapted to be flexible by means of said elongated member 660 being made of a flexible or
adjustable material. The elongated member 660 is inserted into the body and placed in
proximity to the stomach wall 12 of the patient, from the outside or inside thereof. The
elongated member 660 has multiple special holding devices 661 adapted to hold the stomach
by means of mechanical grabbing members or vacuum. The special holding devices 661 are
locked in a position alongside the elongated member 660 by means of a locking ring 662. The
special holding devices are made of a flexible material end pre-bent to expand into a funnel
shaped device when said locking ring 662 is removed. The special holding device in its funnel
shaped expandable state is shown in fig. 20b. Fig. 20b further shows the special holding
device 661 when placed in contact with the stomach wall 12 of the human patient, after which
the special holding member 661 connects to the stomach wall 12, for holding the stomach wall
12. Fig. 20c shows the instrument when the step of advancing a pushing rod 664 from the
elongated member 660 is performed. The pushing rod 664 pushes the stomach wall 12 to
create a cavity or pouch thereof. When the pushing rod 664 has pushed the stomach wall 12 to
a desired position the special holding devices 661 moves towards the pushing rod 664 and
thereby closes the cavity or pouch.
[0186]     After the cavity or pouch has been created it needs to be sealed. Fig. 20d shows the
advancement of a suturing or stapling device 665 from the elongated member 660. The
suturing or stapling device 665 is positioned in connection with the stomach wall 12 after which
the suturing or stapling device 665 commences with the suturing or stapling of the stomach
wall 12, creating a seal of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14. Thereafter an inserting
member 666 is advanced from the elongated member 660 and the special holding devices 661
are retracted. The inserting member 666 is adapted to insert a volume filling device 10 being
inflatable, as described earlier in this application. After the inserting member 666 has been
positioned in the cavity or pouch the volume filling device 10 is inserted through the inserting
member 666 and into the cavity or pouch by means of a pressurized fluid or gas, or a
mechanical advancement member pushing said inflatable volume filling device 10 into the
cavity or pouch. The insertion member 656 then inflates the inflatable volume filling device with
a fluid or gas and seals of the final section of the pouch using stomach to stomach sutures or

                                               - 37
staples 14. The example described explains the process of inserting an inflatable volume filling
device 10, however it is equally conceivable that the volume filling device 10 is expandable by
means of the volume filling device 10 being made of an elastic material. Fig.20 f shows the
volume filling device 10 as the volume filling device 10 is invaginated in the stomach wall 12, in
a cavity or pouch sealed with stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14.
[0187]      Fig. 21a shows an instrument used in a method of engaging the volume filling device
according to any of the embodiments of the application to the stomach wall 12. The instrument
comprises an elongated member 670 which is adapted to be flexible by means of a
construction comprising multiple ring shaped members, however it is equally conceivable that
said elongated member 670 is adapted to be flexible by means of said elongated member 670
being made of a flexible or adjustable material. The elongated member 670 is inserted into the
body and placed in proximity to the stomach wall 12 of the patient, from the inside thereof. A
stomach penetrating member 672 is placed in the distal end of the elongated member 670,
retractably fixated to a protective sleeve 673 adapted to protect the tissue of the body from the
sharp penetrating member 672 or cutter 672 after the cutting operation has been performed.
[0188]      Fig. 21b shows the instrument comprising the elongated member 670 after the
cutting operation has been performed and the stomach penetrating member or cutter 672 has
been retracted into the protective sleeve 673. A guiding wire 671 is pushed through the
elongated member 670, through the hole made in the stomach wall 12 and out through the
abdomen and placed on the inside of the patients skin, which is penetrated from the outside to
enable the guiding wire 671 to exit the abdomen. The guiding wire 671 can then be used to
guide a conduit 18 or a lead attached to the volume filling device 10 being placed in the
stomach from the inside thereof. The volume filling device 10 with the conduit 18 or electrical
lead being a volume filling device 10 according to any of the embodiments of this application.
The guiding of the conduit 18 or electrical lead enables the attachment of the conduit 18 or
electrical lead to a control unit 42 placed subcutaneously in the patient from the outside of the
abdomen.
[0189]      Figs. 20a-f show an instrument for use in a method of engaging a volume filling
device 10 to the stomach wall 12 of a patient. The instrument is adapted to be inserted through
a narrow tube shaped object such as a gastroscope, used in an intraluminar procedure, or a
laparoscopic trocar used in a laparoscopic procedure. The instrument comprises an elongated
member 660 which is adapted to be flexible by means of a construction comprising multiple
ring shaped members, however it is equally conceivable that said elongated member 660 is

                                                 - 38
adapted to be flexible by means of said elongated member 660 being made of a flexible or
adjustable material. The elongated member 660 is inserted into the body and placed in
proximity to the stomach wall 12 of the patient, from the outside or inside thereof. The
elongated member 660 has multiple special holding devices 661 adapted to hold the stomach
by means of mechanical grabbing members or vacuum. The special holding devices 661 are
locked in a position alongside the elongated member 660 by means of a locking ring 662. The
special holding devices are made of a flexible material end pre-bent to expand into a funnel
shaped device when said locking ring 662 is removed. The special holding device in its funnel
shaped expandable state is shown in fig. 20b. Fig. 20b further shows the special holding
device 661 when placed in contact with the stomach wall 12 of the human patient, after which
the special holding member 661 connects to the stomach wall 12, for holding the stomach wall
12. Fig. 20c shows the instrument when the step of advancing a pushing rod 664 from the
elongated member 660 is performed. The pushing rod 664 pushes the stomach wall 12 to
create a cavity or pouch thereof. When the pushing rod 664 has pushed the stomach wall 12 to
a desired position the special holding devices 661 moves towards the pushing rod 664 and
thereby closes the cavity or pouch.
[0190]      After the cavity or pouch has been created it needs to be sealed. Fig. 20d shows the
advancement of a suturing or stapling device 665 from the elongated member 660. The
suturing or stapling device 665 is positioned in connection with the stomach wall 12 after which
the suturing or stapling device 665 commences with the suturing or stapling of the stomach
wall 12, creating a seal of stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14. Thereafter an inserting
member 666 is advanced from the elongated member 660 and the special holding devices 661
are retracted. The inserting member 666 is adapted to insert a volume filling device 10 being
inflatable, as described earlier in this application. After the inserting member 666 has been
positioned in the cavity or pouch the volume filling device 10 is inserted through the inserting
member 666 and into the cavity or pouch by means of a pressurized fluid or gas, or a
mechanical advancement member pushing said inflatable volume filling device 10 into the
cavity or pouch. The insertion member 656 then inflates the inflatable volume filling device with
a fluid or gas and seals of the final section of the pouch using stomach to stomach sutures or
staples 14. The embodiment described explains the process of inserting an inflatable volume
filling device 10, however it is equally conceivable that the volume filling device 10 is
expandable by means of the volume filling device 10 being made of an elastic material. Fig.20
f shows the volume filling device 10 as the volume filling device 10 is invaginated in the
stomach wall 12, in a cavity or pouch sealed with stomach to stomach sutures or staples 14.

                                                  - 39
[0191]      Fig. 21a shows an instrument used in a method of engaging the volume filling device
according to any of the embodiments of the application to the stomach wall 12. The instrument
comprises an elongated member 670 which is adapted to be flexible by means of a
construction comprising multiple ring shaped members, however it is equally conceivable that
said elongated member 670 is adapted to be flexible by means of said elongated member 670
being made of a flexible or adjustable material. The elongated member 670 is inserted into the
body and placed in proximity to the stomach wall 12 of the patient, from the inside thereof. A
stomach penetrating member 672 is placed in the distal end of the elongated member 670,
retractably fixated to a protective sleeve 673 adapted to protect the tissue of the body from the
sharp penetrating member 672 or cutter 672 after the cutting operation has been performed.
[0192]      Fig. 21b shows the instrument comprising the elongated member 670 after the
cutting operation has been performed and the stomach penetrating member or cutter 672 has
been retracted into the protective sleeve 673. A guiding wire 671 is pushed through the
elongated member 670, through the hole made in the stomach wall 12 and out through the
abdomen and placed on the inside of the patients skin, which is penetrated from the outside to
enable the guiding wire 671 to exit the abdomen. The guiding wire 671 can then be used to
guide a conduit 18 or a lead attached to the volume filling device 10 being placed in the
stomach from the inside thereof. The volume filling device 10 with the conduit 18 or electrical
lead being a volume filling device 10 according to any of the embodiments of this application.
The guiding of the conduit 18 or electrical lead enables the attachment of the conduit 18 or
electrical lead to a control unit 42 placed subcutaneously in the patient from the outside of the
abdomen.
[0193]      Fig. 22 illustrates a system for treating a disease comprising an apparatus 10
comprising a volume filling device of the present invention placed in the abdomen of a patient.
An implanted energy-transforming device 1002 is adapted to supply energy consuming
components of the apparatus with energy via a power supply line 1003. An external energy
transmission device 1004 for non-invasively energizing the apparatus 10 transmits energy by
at least one wireless energy signal. The implanted energy-transforming device 1002
transforms energy from the wireless energy signal into electric energy which is supplied via the
power supply line 1003.
[0194]      The implanted energy-transforming device 1002 may also comprise other
components, such as: a coil for reception and/or transmission of signals and energy, an
antenna for reception and/or transmission of signals, a microcontroller, a charge control unit,

                                                   - 40
optionally comprising an energy storage, such as a capacitor, one or more sensors, such as
temperature sensor, pressure sensor, position sensor, motion sensor etc., a transceiver, a
motor, optionally including a motor controller, a pump, and other parts for controlling the
operation of a medical implant.
[0195]     The wireless energy signal may include a wave signal selected from the following: a
sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared
light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave
signal, a radio wave signal, an x-ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal.
Alternatively, the wireless energy signal may include an electric or magnetic field, or a
combined electric and magnetic field.
[0196]     The wireless energy-transmission device 1004 may transmit a carrier signal for
carrying the wireless energy signal. Such a carrier signal may include digital, analogue or a
combination of digital and analogue signals. In this case, the wireless energy signal includes
an analogue or a digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal.
[0197]     Generally speaking, the energy-transforming device 1002 is provided for
transforming wireless energy of a first form transmitted by the energy-transmission device
1004 into energy of a second form, which typically is different from the energy of the first form.
The implanted apparatus 10 is operable in response to the energy of the second form. The
energy-transforming device 1002 may directly power the apparatus with the second form
energy, as the energy-transforming device 1002 transforms the first form energy transmitted by
the energy-transmission device 1004 into the second form energy. The system may further
include an implantable accumulator, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly to
charge the accumulator.
[0198]     Alternatively, the wireless energy transmitted by the energy-transmission device
1004 may be used to directly power the apparatus, as the wireless energy is being transmitted
by the energy-transmission device 1004. Where the system comprises an operation device for
operating the apparatus, as will be described below, the wireless energy transmitted by the
energy-transmission device 1004 may be used to directly power the operation device to create
kinetic energy for the operation of the apparatus.
[0199]     The wireless energy of the first form may comprise sound waves and the energy
transforming device 1002 may include a piezo-electric element for transforming the sound

                                                - 41
waves into electric energy. The energy of the second form may comprise electric energy in the
form of a direct current or pulsating direct current, or a combination of a direct current and
pulsating direct current, or an alternating current or a combination of a direct and alternating
current. Normally, the apparatus comprises electric components that are energized with
electrical energy. Other implantable electric components of the system may be at least one
voltage level guard or at least one constant current guard connected with the electric
components of the apparatus.
[0200]      Optionally, one of the energy of the first form and the energy of the second form may
comprise magnetic energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy, radiant energy,
electromagnetic energy, photo energy, nuclear energy or thermal energy. Preferably, one of
the energy of the first form and the energy of the second form is non-magnetic, non-kinetic,
non-chemical, non-sonic, non-nuclear or non-thermal.
[0201]      The energy-transmission device may be controlled from outside the patient's body to
release electromagnetic wireless energy, and the released electromagnetic wireless energy is
used for operating the apparatus. Alternatively, the energy-transmission device is controlled
from outside the patient's body to release non-magnetic wireless energy, and the released
non-magnetic wireless energy is used for operating the apparatus.
[0202]      The external energy-transmission device 1004 also includes a wireless remote
control having an external signal transmitter for transmitting a wireless control signal for non
invasively controlling the apparatus. The control signal is received by an implanted signal
receiver which may be incorporated in the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 or be
separate there from.
[0203]      The wireless control signal may include a frequency, amplitude, or phase modulated
signal or a combination thereof. Alternatively, the wireless control signal includes an analogue
or a digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal. Alternatively, the wireless
control signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic
field.
[0204]      The wireless remote control may transmit a carrier signal for carrying the wireless
control signal. Such a carrier signal may include digital, analogue or a combination of digital
and analogue signals. Where the control signal includes an analogue or a digital signal, or a

                                                  - 42
combination of an analogue and digital signal, the wireless remote control preferably transmits
an electromagnetic carrier wave signal for carrying the digital or analogue control signals.
[0205]     Fig. 23 illustrates the system of Fig. 22 in the form of a more generalized block
diagram showing the apparatus 10, the energy-transforming device 1002 powering the
apparatus 10 via power supply line 1003, and the external energy-transmission device 1004,
The patient's skin 1005, generally shown by a vertical line, separates the interior of the patient
to the right of the line from the exterior to the left of the line.
[0206]     Fig. 24 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 23, except that
a reversing device in the form of an electric switch 1006 operable for example by polarized
energy also is implanted in the patient for reversing the apparatus 10. When the switch is
operated by polarized energy the wireless remote control of the external energy-transmission
device 1004 transmits a wireless signal that carries polarized energy and the implanted
energy-transforming device 1002 transforms the wireless polarized energy into a polarized
current for operating the electric switch 1006. When the polarity of the current is shifted by the
implanted energy-transforming device 1002 the electric switch 1006 reverses the function
performed by the apparatus 10.
[0207]     Fig. 25 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 23, except that
an operation device 1007 implanted in the patient for operating the apparatus 10 is provided
between the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 and the apparatus 10. This operation
device can be in the form of a motor 1007, such as an electric servomotor. The motor 1007 is
powered with energy from the implanted energy-transforming device 1002, as the remote
control of the external energy-transmission device 1004 transmits a wireless signal to the
receiver of the implanted energy-transforming device 1002.
[0208]     Fig. 26 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 23, except that
it also comprises an operation device is in the form of an assembly 1008 including a
motor/pump unit 1009 and a fluid reservoir 1010 is implanted in the patient. In this case the
apparatus 10 is hydraulically operated, i.e. hydraulic fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit
1009 from the fluid reservoir 1010 through a conduit 1011 to the apparatus 10 to operate the
apparatus, and hydraulic fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit 1009 back from the
apparatus 10 to the fluid reservoir 1010 to return the apparatus to a starting position. The
implanted energy-transforming device 1002 transforms wireless energy into a current, for

                                                - 43
example a polarized current, for powering the motor/pump unit 1009 via an electric power
supply line 1012.
[0209]      Instead of a hydraulically operated apparatus 10, it is also envisaged that the
operation device comprises a pneumatic operation device. In this case, the hydraulic fluid can
be pressurized air to be used for regulation and the fluid reservoir is replaced by an air
chamber.
[0210]      In all of these embodiments the energy-transforming device 1002 may include a
rechargeable accumulator like a battery or a capacitor to be charged by the wireless energy
and supplies energy for any energy consuming part of the system.
[0211]      As an alternative, the wireless remote control described above may be replaced by
manual control of any implanted part to make contact with by the patient's hand most likely
indirect, for example a press button placed under the skin.
[0212]      Fig. 27 shows an embodiment of the invention comprising the external energy
transmission device 1004 with its wireless remote control, the apparatus 10, in this case
hydraulically operated, and the implanted energy-transforming device 1002, and further
comprising a hydraulic fluid reservoir 1013, a motor/pump unit 1009 and an reversing device in
the form of a hydraulic valve shifting device 1014, all implanted in the patient. Of course the
hydraulic operation could easily be performed by just changing the pumping direction and the
hydraulic valve may therefore be omitted. The remote control may be a device separated from
the external energy-transmission device or included in the same. The motor of the motor/pump
unit 1009 is an electric motor. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote control
of the external energy-transmission device 1004, the implanted energy-transforming device
1002 powers the motor/pump unit 1009 with energy from the energy carried by the control
signal, whereby the motor/pump unit 1009 distributes hydraulic fluid between the hydraulic fluid
reservoir 1013 and the apparatus 10. The remote control of the external energy-transmission
device 1004 controls the hydraulic valve shifting device 1014 to shift the hydraulic fluid flow
direction between one direction in which the fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit 1009 from
the hydraulic fluid reservoir 1013 to the apparatus 10 to operate the apparatus, and another
opposite direction in which the fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit 1009 back from the
apparatus 10 to the hydraulic fluid reservoir 1013 to return the apparatus to a starting position.

                                                - 44
[0213]     Fig. 28 shows an embodiment of the invention comprising the external energy
transmission device 1004 with its wireless remote control, the apparatus 10, the implanted
energy-transforming device 1002, an implanted internal control unit 1015 controlled by the
wireless remote control of the external energy-transmission device 1004, an implanted
accumulator 1016 and an implanted capacitor 1017. The internal control unit 1015 arranges
storage of electric energy received from the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 in the
accumulator 1016, which supplies energy to the apparatus 10. In response to a control signal
from the wireless remote control of the external energy-transmission device 1004, the internal
control unit 1015 either releases electric energy from the accumulator 1016 and transfers the
released energy via power lines 1018 and 1019, or directly transfers electric energy from the
implanted energy-transforming device 1002 via a power line 1020, the capacitor 1017, which
stabilizes the electric current, a power line 1021 and the power line 1019, for the operation of
the apparatus 10.
[0214]     The internal control unit is preferably programmable from outside the patient's body.
In a preferred embodiment, the internal control unit is programmed to regulate the apparatus
10 according to a pre-programmed time-schedule or to input from any sensor sensing any
possible physical parameter of the patient or any functional parameter of the system.
[0215]     In accordance with an alternative, the capacitor 1017 in the embodiment of Fig. 28
10may be omitted. In accordance with another alternative, the accumulator 1016 in this
embodiment may be omitted.
[0216]     Fig. 29 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 23, except that
a battery 1022 for supplying energy for the operation of the apparatus 10 and an electric switch
1023 for switching the operation of the apparatus 10 also are implanted in the patient. The
electric switch 1023 may be controlled by the remote control and may also be operated by the
energy supplied by the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 to switch from an off mode,
in which the battery 1022 is not in use, to an on mode, in which the battery 1022 supplies
energy for the operation of the apparatus 10.
[0217]     Fig. 30 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 29, except that
an internal control unit 1015 controllable by the wireless remote control of the external energy
transmission device 1004 also is implanted in the patient. In this case, the electric switch 1023
is operated by the energy supplied by the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 to switch
from an off mode, in which the wireless remote control is prevented from controlling the

                                                - 45
internal control unit 1015 and the battery is not in use, to a standby mode, in which the remote
control is permitted to control the internal control unit 1015 to release electric energy from the
battery 1022 for the operation of the apparatus 10.
[0218]     Fig. 31 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 30, except that
an accumulator 1016 is substituted for the battery 1022 and the implanted components are
interconnected differently. In this case, the accumulator 1016 stores energy from the implanted
energy-transforming device 1002. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote
control of the external energy-transmission device 1004, the internal control unit 1015 controls
the electric switch 1023 to switch from an off mode, in which the accumulator 1016 is not in
use, to an on mode, in which the accumulator 1016 supplies energy for the operation of the
apparatus 10. The accumulator may be combined with or replaced by a capacitor.
[0219]     Fig. 32 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 31, except that
a battery 1022 also is implanted in the patient and the implanted components are
interconnected differently. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote control of
the external energy-transmission device 1004, the internal control unit 1015 controls the
accumulator 1016 to deliver energy for operating the electric switch 1023 to switch from an off
mode, in which the battery 1022 is not in use, to an on mode, in which the battery 1022
supplies electric energy for the operation of the apparatus 10.
[0220]     Alternatively, the electric switch 1023 may be operated by energy supplied by the
accumulator 1016 to switch from an off mode, in which the wireless remote control is
prevented from controlling the battery 1022 to supply electric energy and is not in use, to a
standby mode, in which the wireless remote control is permitted to control the battery 1022 to
supply electric energy for the operation of the apparatus 10.
[0221]     It should be understood that the switch 1023 and all other switches in this application
should be interpreted in its broadest embodiment. This means a transistor, MCU, MCPU,
ASIC, FPGA or a DA converter or any other electronic component or circuit that may switch
the power on and off. Preferably the switch is controlled from outside the body, or alternatively
by an implanted internal control unit.
[0222]     Fig. 33 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 29, except that
a motor 1007, a mechanical reversing device in the form of a gear box 1024, and an internal
control unit 1015 for controlling the gear box 1024 also are implanted in the patient. The

                                                 - 46
internal control unit 1015 controls the gear box 1024 to reverse the function performed by the
apparatus 10 (mechanically operated). Even simpler is to switch the direction of the motor
electronically. The gear box interpreted in its broadest embodiment may stand for a servo
arrangement saving force for the operation device in favour of longer stroke to act.
[0223]     Fig. 34 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 40 except that
the implanted components are interconnected differently. Thus, in this case the internal control
unit 1015 is powered by the battery 1022 when the accumulator 1016, suitably a capacitor,
activates the electric switch 1023 to switch to an on mode. When the electric switch 1023 is in
its on mode the internal control unit 1015 is permitted to control the battery 1022 to supply, or
not supply, energy for the operation of the apparatus 10.
[0224]     Fig. 35 schematically shows conceivable combinations of implanted components of
the apparatus for achieving various communication options. Basically, there are the apparatus
10, the internal control unit 1015, motor or pump unit 1009, and the external energy
transmission device 1004 including the external wireless remote control. As already described
above the wireless remote control transmits a control signal which is received by the internal
control unit 1015, which in turn controls the various implanted components of the apparatus.
[0225]     A feedback device, preferably comprising a sensor or measuring device 1025, may
be implanted in the patient for sensing a physical parameter of the patient. The physical
parameter may be at least one selected from the group consisting of pressure, volume,
diameter, stretching, elongation, extension, movement, bending, elasticity, muscle contraction,
nerve impulse, body temperature, blood pressure, blood flow, heartbeats and breathing. The
sensor may sense any of the above physical parameters. For example, the sensor may be a
pressure or motility sensor. Alternatively, the sensor 1025 may be arranged to sense a
functional parameter. The functional parameter may be correlated to the transfer of energy for
charging an implanted energy source and may further include at least one selected from the
group of parameters consisting of; electricity, any electrical parameter, pressure, volume,
diameter, stretch, elongation, extension, movement, bending, elasticity, temperature and flow.
[0226]     The feedback may be sent to the internal control unit or out to an external control
unit preferably via the internal control unit. Feedback may be sent out from the body via the
energy transfer system or a separate communication system with receiver and transmitters.

                                                  - 47
[0227]     The internal control unit 1015, or alternatively the external wireless remote control of
the external energy-transmission device 1004, may control the apparatus 10 in response to
signals from the sensor 1025. A transceiver may be combined with the sensor 1025 for
sending information on the sensed physical parameter to the external wireless remote control.
The wireless remote control may comprise a signal transmitter or transceiver and the internal
control unit 1015 may comprise a signal receiver or transceiver. Alternatively, the wireless
remote control may comprise a signal receiver or transceiver and the internal control unit 1015
may comprise a signal transmitter or transceiver. The above transceivers, transmitters and
receivers may be used for sending information or data related to the apparatus 10 from inside
the patient's body to the outside thereof.
[0228]     Where the motor/pump unit 1009 and battery 1022 for powering the motor/pump unit
1009 are implanted, information related to the charging of the battery 1022 may be fed back.
To be more precise, when charging a battery or accumulator with energy feedback information
related to said charging process is sent and the energy supply is changed accordingly.
[0229]     Fig. 36 shows an alternative embodiment wherein the apparatus 10 is regulated from
outside the patient's body. The system 1000 comprises a battery 1022 connected to the
apparatus 10 via a subcutaneous electric switch 1026. Thus, the regulation of the apparatus
10 is performed non-invasively by manually pressing the subcutaneous switch, whereby the
operation of the apparatus 10 is switched on and off. It will be appreciated that the shown
embodiment is a simplification and that additional components, such as an internal control unit
or any other part disclosed in the present application can be added to the system. Two
subcutaneous switches may also be used. In the preferred embodiment one implanted switch
sends information to the internal control unit to perform a certain predetermined performance
and when the patient press the switch again the performance is reversed.
[0230]     Fig. 37 shows an alternative embodiment, wherein the system 1000 comprises a
hydraulic fluid reservoir 1013 hydraulically connected to the apparatus. Non-invasive regulation
is performed by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir connected to the apparatus.
Alternatively, the hydraulic fluid reservoir 1013 is adapted to work with an injection port for the
injection of hydraulic fluid, preferably for calibration of hydraulic fluid.
[0231]     The system may include an external data communicator and an implantable internal
data communicator communicating with the external data communicator. The internal
communicator feeds data related to the apparatus or the patient to the external data

                                                 - 48
communicator and/or the external data communicator feeds data to the internal data
communicator.
[0232]     Fig. 38 schematically illustrates an arrangement of the system that is capable of
sending information from inside the patient's body to the outside thereof to give feedback
information related to at least one functional parameter of the apparatus or system, or related
to a physical parameter of the patient, in order to supply an accurate amount of energy to an
implanted internal energy receiver 1002 connected to implanted energy consuming
components of the apparatus 10. Such an energy receiver 1002 may include an energy source
and/or an energy-transforming device. Briefly described, wireless energy is transmitted from an
external energy source 1004a located outside the patient and is received by the internal
energy receiver 1002 located inside the patient. The internal energy receiver is adapted to
directly or indirectly supply received energy to the energy consuming components of the
apparatus 10 via a switch 1026. An energy balance is determined between the energy
received by the internal energy receiver 1002 and the energy used for the apparatus 10, and
the transmission of wireless energy is then controlled based on the determined energy
balance. The energy balance thus provides an accurate indication of the correct amount of
energy needed, which is sufficient to operate the apparatus 10 properly, but without causing
undue temperature rise.
[0233]     In Fig. 38 the patient's skin is indicated by a vertical line 1005. Here, the energy
receiver comprises an energy-transforming device 1002 located inside the patient, preferably
just beneath the patient's skin 1005. Generally speaking, the implanted energy-transforming
device 1002 may be placed in the abdomen, thorax, muscle fascia (e.g. in the abdominal wall),
subcutaneously, or at any other suitable location. The implanted energy-transforming device
1002 is adapted to receive wireless energy E transmitted from the external energy-source
1004a provided in an external energy-transmission device 1004 located outside the patient's
skin 1005 in the vicinity of the implanted energy-transforming device 1002.
[0234]     As is well known in the art, the wireless energy E may generally be transferred by
means of any suitable Transcutaneous Energy Transfer (TET) device, such as a device
including a primary coil arranged in the external energy source 1004a and an adjacent
secondary coil arranged in the implanted energy-transforming device 1002. When an electric
current is fed through the primary coil, energy in the form of a voltage is induced in the
secondary coil which can be used to power the implanted energy consuming components of
the apparatus, e.g. after storing the incoming energy in an implanted energy source, such as a

                                              - 49
rechargeable battery or a capacitor. However, the present invention is generally not limited to
any particular energy transfer technique, TET devices or energy sources, and any kind of
wireless energy may be used.
[0235]     The amount of energy received by the implanted energy receiver may be compared
with the energy used by the implanted components of the apparatus. The term "energy used"
is then understood to include also energy stored by implanted components of the apparatus. A
control device includes an external control unit 1004b that controls the external energy source
1004a based on the determined energy balance to regulate the amount of transferred energy.
In order to transfer the correct amount of energy, the energy balance and the required amount
of energy is determined by means of a determination device including an implanted internal
control unit 1015 connected between the switch 1026 and the apparatus 10. The internal
control unit 1015 may thus be arranged to receive various measurements obtained by suitable
sensors or the like, not shown, measuring certain characteristics of the apparatus 10,
somehow reflecting the required amount of energy needed for proper operation of the
apparatus 10. Moreover, the current condition of the patient may also be detected by means of
suitable measuring devices or sensors, in order to provide parameters reflecting the patient's
condition. Hence, such characteristics and/or parameters may be related to the current state of
the apparatus 10, such as power consumption, operational mode and temperature, as well as
the patient's condition reflected by parameters such as; body temperature, blood pressure,
heartbeats and breathing. Other kinds of physical parameters of the patient and functional
parameters of the device are described elsewhere.
[0236]     Furthermore, an energy source in the form of an accumulator 1016 may optionally be
connected to the implanted energy-transforming device 1002 via the control unit 1015 for
accumulating received energy for later use by the apparatus 10. Alternatively or additionally,
characteristics of such an accumulator, also reflecting the required amount of energy, may be
measured as well. The accumulator may be replaced by a rechargeable battery, and the
measured characteristics may be related to the current state of the battery, any electrical
parameter such as energy consumption voltage, temperature, etc. In order to provide sufficient
voltage and current to the apparatus 10, and also to avoid excessive heating, it is clearly
understood that the battery should be charged optimally by receiving a correct amount of
energy from the implanted energy-transforming device 1002, i.e. not too little or too much. The
accumulator may also be a capacitor with corresponding characteristics.

                                                - 50
[0237]      For example, battery characteristics may be measured on a regular basis to
determine the current state of the battery, which then may be stored as state information in a
suitable storage means in the internal control unit 1015. Thus, whenever new measurements
are made, the stored battery state information can be updated accordingly. In this way, the
state of the battery can be "calibrated" by transferring a correct amount of energy, so as to
maintain the battery in an optimal condition.
[0238]      Thus, the internal control unit 1015 of the determination device is adapted to
determine the energy balance and/or the currently required amount of energy, (either energy
per time unit or accumulated energy) based on measurements made by the above-mentioned
sensors or measuring devices of the apparatus 10, or the patient, or an implanted energy
source if used, or any combination thereof. The internal control unit 1015 is further connected
to an internal signal transmitter 1027, arranged to transmit a control signal reflecting the
determined required amount of energy, to an external signal receiver 1004c connected to the
external control unit 1004b. The amount of energy transmitted from the external energy source
1004a may then be regulated in response to the received control signal.
[0239]      Alternatively, the determination device may include the external control unit 1004b.
In this alternative, sensor measurements can be transmitted directly to the external control unit
1004b wherein the energy balance and/or the currently required amount of energy can be
determined by the external control unit 1004b, thus integrating the above-described function of
the internal control unit 1015 in the external control unit 1004b. In that case, the internal control
unit 1015 can be omitted and the sensor measurements are supplied directly to the internal
signal transmitter 1027 which sends the measurements over to the external signal receiver
1004c and the external control unit 1004b. The energy balance and the currently required
amount of energy can then be determined by the external control unit 1004b based on those
sensor measurements.
[0240]      Hence, the present solution according to the arrangement of Fig. 38 employs the
feedback of information indicating the required energy, which is more efficient than previous
solutions because it is based on the actual use of energy that is compared to the received
energy, e.g. with respect to the amount of energy, the energy difference, or the energy
receiving rate as compared to the energy rate used by implanted energy consuming
components of the apparatus. The apparatus may use the received energy either for
consuming or for storing the energy in an implanted energy source or the like. The different
parameters discussed above would thus be used if relevant and needed and then as a tool for

                                                 - 51
determining the actual energy balance. However, such parameters may also be needed per se
for any actions taken internally to specifically operate the apparatus.
[0241]      The internal signal transmitter 1027 and the external signal receiver 1004c may be
implemented as separate units using suitable signal transfer means, such as radio, IR
(Infrared) or ultrasonic signals. Alternatively, the internal signal transmitter 1027 and the
external signal receiver 1004c may be integrated in the implanted energy-transforming device
1002 and the external energy source 1004a, respectively, so as to convey control signals in a
reverse direction relative to the energy transfer, basically using the same transmission
technique. The control signals may be modulated with respect to frequency, phase or
amplitude.
[0242]      Thus, the feedback information may be transferred either by a separate
communication system including receivers and transmitters or may be integrated in the energy
system. In accordance with the present invention, such an integrated information feedback and
energy system comprises an implantable internal energy receiver for receiving wireless
energy, the energy receiver having an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected
to the first coil, and an external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy
transmitter having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
second coil. The external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits wireless energy which
is received by the first coil of the energy receiver. This system further comprises a power
switch for switching the connection of the internal first coil to the first electronic circuit on and
off, such that feedback information related to the charging of the first coil is received by the
external energy transmitter in the form of an impedance variation in the load of the external
second coil, when the power switch switches the connection of the internal first coil to the first
electronic circuit on and off. In implementing this system in the arrangement of Fig. 38, the
switch 1026 is either separate and controlled by the internal control unit 1015, or integrated in
the internal control unit 1015. It should be understood that the switch 1026 should be
interpreted in its broadest embodiment. This means a transistor, MCU, MCPU, ASIC FPGA or
a DA converter or any other electronic component or circuit that may switch the power on and
off.
[0243]      To conclude, the energy supply arrangement illustrated in Fig. 38 may operate
basically in the following manner. The energy balance is first determined by the internal control
unit 1015 of the determination device. A control signal reflecting the required amount of energy
is also created by the internal control unit 1015, and the control signal is transmitted from the

                                                  - 52
internal signal transmitter 1027 to the external signal receiver 1004c. Alternatively, the energy
balance can be determined by the external control unit 1004b instead depending on the
implementation, as mentioned above. In that case, the control signal may carry measurement
results from various sensors. The amount of energy emitted from the external energy source
1004a can then be regulated by the external control unit 1004b, based on the determined
energy balance, e.g. in response to the received control signal. This process may be repeated
intermittently at certain intervals during ongoing energy transfer, or may be executed on a
more or less continuous basis during the energy transfer.
[0244]      The amount of transferred energy can generally be regulated by adjusting various
transmission parameters in the external energy source 1004a, such as voltage, current,
amplitude, wave frequency and pulse characteristics.
[0245]      This system may also be used to obtain information about the coupling factors
between the coils in a TET system even to calibrate the system both to find an optimal place
for the external coil in relation to the internal coil and to optimize energy transfer. Simply
comparing in this case the amount of energy transferred with the amount of energy received.
For example if the external coil is moved the coupling factor may vary and correctly displayed
movements could cause the external coil to find the optimal place for energy transfer.
Preferably, the external coil is adapted to calibrate the amount of transferred energy to achieve
the feedback information in the determination device, before the coupling factor is maximized.
[0246]      This coupling factor information may also be used as a feedback during energy
transfer. In such a case, the energy system of the present invention comprises an implantable
internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having an internal
first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an external energy
transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter having an external second
coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the second coil. The external second coil of
the energy transmitter transmits wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy
receiver. This system further comprises a feedback device for communicating out the amount
of energy received in the first coil as a feedback information, and wherein the second
electronic circuit includes a determination device for receiving the feedback information and for
comparing the amount of transferred energy by the second coil with the feedback information
related to the amount of energy received in the first coil to obtain the coupling factor between
the first and second coils. The energy transmitter may regulate the transmitted energy in
response to the obtained coupling factor.

                                                - 53
[0247]     With reference to Fig. 39, although wireless transfer of energy for operating the
apparatus has been described above to enable non-invasive operation, it will be appreciated
that the apparatus can be operated with wire bound energy as well. Such an example is shown
in Fig. 39, wherein an external switch 1026 is interconnected between the external energy
source 1004a and an operation device, such as an electric motor 1007 operating the
apparatus 10. An external control unit 1004b controls the operation of the external switch 1026
to effect proper operation of the apparatus 10.
[0248]     Fig. 40 illustrates different embodiments for how received energy can be supplied to
and used by the apparatus 10. Similar to the example of Fig. 38, an internal energy receiver
1002 receives wireless energy E from an external energy source 1004a which is controlled by
a transmission control unit 1004b. The internal energy receiver 1002 may comprise a constant
voltage circuit, indicated as a dashed box "constant V in the figure, for supplying energy at
constant voltage to the apparatus 10. The internal energy receiver 1002 may further comprise
a constant current circuit, indicated as a dashed box "constant C" in the figure, for supplying
energy at constant current to the apparatus 10.
[0249]     The apparatus 10 comprises an energy consuming part 10a, which may be a motor,
pump, restriction device, or any other medical appliance that requires energy for its electrical
operation. The apparatus 10 may further comprise an energy storage device 10b for storing
energy supplied from the internal energy receiver 1002. Thus, the supplied energy may be
directly consumed by the energy consuming part 10a, or stored by the energy storage device
1Ob, or the supplied energy may be partly consumed and partly stored. The apparatus 10 may
further comprise an energy stabilizing unit 1Oc for stabilizing the energy supplied from the
internal energy receiver 1002. Thus, the energy may be supplied in a fluctuating manner such
that it may be necessary to stabilize the energy before consumed or stored.
[0250]     The energy supplied from the internal energy receiver 1002 may further be
accumulated and/or stabilized by a separate energy stabilizing unit 1028 located outside the
apparatus 10, before being consumed and/or stored by the apparatus 10. Alternatively, the
energy stabilizing unit 1028 may be integrated in the internal energy receiver 1002. In either
case, the energy stabilizing unit 1028 may comprise a constant voltage circuit and/or a
constant current circuit.
[0251]     It should be noted that Fig. 38 and Fig. 40 illustrate some possible but non-limiting
implementation options regarding how the various shown functional components and elements

                                                - 54
can be arranged and connected to each other. However, the skilled person will readily
appreciate that many variations and modifications can be made within the scope of the present
invention.
[0252]      Fig. 41 schematically shows an energy balance measuring circuit of one of the
proposed designs of the system for controlling transmission of wireless energy, or energy
balance control system. The circuit has an output signal centered on 2.5V and proportionally
related to the energy imbalance. The derivative of this signal shows if the value goes up and
down and how fast such a change takes place. If the amount of received energy is lower than
the energy used by implanted components of the apparatus, more energy is transferred and
thus charged into the energy source. The output signal from the circuit is typically feed to an
A/D converter and converted into a digital format. The digital information can then be sent to
the external energy-transmission device allowing it to adjust the level of the transmitted
energy. Another possibility is to have a completely analog system that uses comparators
comparing the energy balance level with certain maximum and minimum thresholds sending
information to external energy-transmission device if the balance drifts out of the max/min
window.
[0253]      The schematic Fig. 41 shows a circuit implementation for a system that transfers
energy to the implanted energy components of the apparatus of the present invention from
outside of the patient's body using inductive energy transfer. An inductive energy transfer
system typically uses an external transmitting coil and an internal receiving coil. The receiving
coil, L1, is included in the schematic Fig. 24; the transmitting parts of the system are excluded.
[0254]      The implementation of the general concept of energy balance and the way the
information is transmitted to the external energy transmitter can of course be implemented in
numerous different ways. The schematic Fig. 41 and the above described method of
evaluating and transmitting the information should only be regarded as examples of how to
implement the control system.
            CIRCUIT DETAILS
[0255]      In Fig. 41 the symbols Y1, Y2, Y3 and so on symbolize test points within the circuit.
The components in the diagram and their respective values are values that work in this
particular implementation which of course is only one of an infinite number of possible design
solutions.

                                                  - 55
[0256]     Energy to power the circuit is received by the energy receiving coil L1. Energy to
implanted components is transmitted in this particular case at a frequency of 25 kHz. The
energy balance output signal is present at test point Y1.
[0257]     Those skilled in the art will realize that the above various embodiments of the system
could be combined in many different ways. For example, the electric switch 1006 of Fig. 24
could be incorporated in any of the embodiments of Figs. 27-33, the hydraulic valve shifting
device 1014 of Fig. 27 could be incorporated in the embodiment of Fig. 26, and the gear box
1024 could be incorporated in the embodiment of Fig. 25. Please observe that the switch
simply could mean any electronic circuit or component.
[0258]     The example described in connection with Figs. 38, 40 and 41 identify a method and
a system for controlling transmission of wireless energy to implanted energy consuming
components of an electrically operable apparatus. Such a method and system will be defined
in general terms in the following.
[0259]     A method is thus provided for controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied to
implanted energy consuming components of an apparatus as described above. The wireless
energy E is transmitted from an external energy source located outside the patient and is
received by an internal energy receiver located inside the patient, the internal energy receiver
being connected to the implanted energy consuming components of the apparatus for directly
or indirectly supplying received energy thereto. An energy balance is determined between the
energy received by the internal energy receiver and the energy used for the apparatus. The
transmission of wireless energy E from the external energy source is then controlled based on
the determined energy balance.
[0260]     The wireless energy may be transmitted inductively from a primary coil in the
external energy source to a secondary coil in the internal energy receiver. A change in the
energy balance may be detected to control the transmission of wireless energy based on the
detected energy balance change. A difference may also be detected between energy received
by the internal energy receiver and energy used for the medical device, to control the
transmission of wireless energy based on the detected energy difference.
[0261]     When controlling the energy transmission, the amount of transmitted wireless energy
may be decreased if the detected energy balance change implies that the energy balance is

                                                - 56
increasing, or vice versa. The decrease/increase of energy transmission may further
correspond to a detected change rate.
[0262]     The amount of transmitted wireless energy may further be decreased if the detected
energy difference implies that the received energy is greater than the used energy, or vice
versa. The decrease/increase of energy transmission may then correspond to the magnitude
of the detected energy difference.
[0263]     As mentioned above, the energy used for the medical device may be consumed to
operate the medical device, and/or stored in at least one energy storage device of the medical
device.
[0264]     When electrical and/or physical parameters of the medical device and/or physical
parameters of the patient are determined, the energy may be transmitted for consumption and
storage according to a transmission rate per time unit which is determined based on said
parameters. The total amount of transmitted energy may also be determined based on said
parameters.
[0265]     When a difference is detected between the total amount of energy received by the
internal energy receiver and the total amount of consumed and/or stored energy, and the
detected difference is related to the integral over time of at least one measured electrical
parameter related to said energy balance, the integral may be determined for a monitored
voltage and/or current related to the energy balance.
[0266]     When the derivative is determined over time of a measured electrical parameter
related to the amount of consumed and/or stored energy, the derivative may be determined for
a monitored voltage and/or current related to the energy balance.
[0267]     The transmission of wireless energy from the external energy source may be
controlled by applying to the external energy source electrical pulses from a first electric circuit
to transmit the wireless energy, the electrical pulses having leading and trailing edges, varying
the lengths of first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges of the electrical
pulses and/or the lengths of second time intervals between successive trailing and leading
edges of the electrical pulses, and transmitting wireless energy, the transmitted energy
generated from the electrical pulses having a varied power, the varying of the power
depending on the lengths of the first and/or second time intervals.

                                                  - 57
[0268]      In that case, the frequency of the electrical pulses may be substantially constant
when varying the first and/or second time intervals. When applying electrical pulses, the
electrical pulses may remain unchanged, except for varying the first and/or second time
intervals. The amplitude of the electrical pulses may be substantially constant when varying
the first and/or second time intervals. Further, the electrical pulses may be varied by only
varying the lengths of first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges of the
electrical pulses.
[0269]     A train of two or more electrical pulses may be supplied in a row, wherein when
applying the train of pulses, the train having a first electrical pulse at the start of the pulse train
and having a second electrical pulse at the end of the pulse train, two or more pulse trains may
be supplied in a row, wherein the lengths of the second time intervals between successive
trailing edge of the second electrical pulse in a first pulse train and leading edge of the first
electrical pulse of a second pulse train are varied.
[0270]      When applying the electrical pulses, the electrical pulses may have a substantially
constant current and a substantially constant voltage. The electrical pulses may also have a
substantially constant current and a substantially constant voltage. Further, the electrical
pulses may also have a substantially constant frequency. The electrical pulses within a pulse
train may likewise have a substantially constant frequency.
[0271]      The circuit formed by the first electric circuit and the external energy source may
have a first characteristic time period or first time constant, and when effectively varying the
transmitted energy, such frequency time period may be in the range of the first characteristic
time period or time constant or shorter.
[0272]     A system comprising an apparatus as described above is thus also provided for
controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied to implanted energy consuming
components of the apparatus. In its broadest sense, the system comprises a control device for
controlling the transmission of wireless energy from an energy-transmission device, and an
implantable internal energy receiver for receiving the transmitted wireless energy, the internal
energy receiver being connected to implantable energy consuming components of the
apparatus for directly or indirectly supplying received energy thereto. The system further
comprises a determination device adapted to determine an energy balance between the
energy received by the internal energy receiver and the energy used for the implantable
energy consuming components of the apparatus, wherein the control device controls the

                                                - 58
transmission of wireless energy from the external energy-transmission device, based on the
energy balance determined by the determination device.
[0273]     In one embodiment at least one battery may be a part of or replace the energy
transforming device 1002 to supply energy to the apparatus 10 over a power supply line. In
one embodiment the battery is not rechargeable. In an alternative embodiment the battery is
rechargeable. The battery supply may of course be placed both remote to and incorporated in
the device.
[0274]     Further, the system may comprise any of the following:
[0275]     - A primary coil in the external energy source adapted to transmit the wireless energy
inductively to a secondary coil in the internal energy receiver.
[0276]     - The determination device is adapted to detect a change in the energy balance, and
the control device controls the transmission of wireless energy based on the detected energy
balance change
[0277]     - The determination device is adapted to detect a difference between energy
received by the internal energy receiver and energy used for the implantable energy
consuming components of the apparatus, and the control device controls the transmission of
wireless energy based on the detected energy difference.
[0278]     - The control device controls the external energy-transmission device to decrease
the amount of transmitted wireless energy if the detected energy balance change implies that
the energy balance is increasing, or vice versa, wherein the decrease/increase of energy
transmission corresponds to a detected change rate.
[0279]     - The control device controls the external energy-transmission device to decrease
the amount of transmitted wireless energy if the detected energy difference implies that the
received energy is greater than the used energy, or vice versa, wherein the decrease/increase
of energy transmission corresponds to the magnitude of said detected energy difference.
[0280]     - The energy used for the apparatus is consumed to operate the apparatus, and/or
stored in at least one energy storage device of the apparatus.

                                                  - 59
[0281]      - Where electrical and/or physical parameters of the apparatus and/or physical
parameters of the patient are determined, the energy-transmission device transmits the energy
for consumption and storage according to a transmission rate per time unit which is
determined by the determination device based on said parameters. The determination device
also determines the total amount of transmitted energy based on said parameters.
[0282]      - When a difference is detected between the total amount of energy received by the
internal energy receiver and the total amount of consumed and/or stored energy, and the
detected difference is related to the integral over time of at least one measured electrical
parameter related to the energy balance, the determination device determines the integral for a
monitored voltage and/or current related to the energy balance.
[0283]      - When the derivative is determined over time of a measured electrical parameter
related to the amount of consumed and/or stored energy, the determination device determines
the derivative for a monitored voltage and/or current related to the energy balance.
[0284]      - The energy-transmission device comprises a coil placed externally to the human
body, and an electric circuit is provided to power the external coil with electrical pulses to
transmit the wireless energy. The electrical pulses have leading and trailing edges, and the
electric circuit is adapted to vary first time intervals between successive leading and trailing
edges and/or second time intervals between successive trailing and leading edges of the
electrical pulses to vary the power of the transmitted wireless energy. As a result, the energy
receiver receiving the transmitted wireless energy has a varied power.
[0285]      - The electric circuit is adapted to deliver the electrical pulses to remain unchanged
except varying the first and/or second time intervals.
[0286]       - The electric circuit has a time constant and is adapted to vary the first and second
time intervals only in the range of the first time constant, so that when the lengths of the first
and/or second time intervals are varied, the transmitted power over the coil is varied.
[0287]      - The electric circuit is adapted to deliver the electrical pulses to be varied by only
varying the lengths of first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges of the
electrical pulses.

                                                  - 60
[0288]      - The electric circuit is adapted to supplying a train of two or more electrical pulses in
a row, said train having a first electrical pulse at the start of the pulse train and having a
second electrical pulse at the end of the pulse train, and
[0289]      - the lengths of the second time intervals between successive trailing edge of the
second electrical pulse in a first pulse train and leading edge of the first electrical pulse of a
second pulse train are varied by the first electronic circuit.
[0290]      - The electric circuit is adapted to provide the electrical pulses as pulses having a
substantially constant height and/or amplitude and/or intensity and/or voltage and/or current
and/or frequency.
[0291]      - The electric circuit has a time constant, and is adapted to vary the first and second
time intervals only in the range of the first time constant, so that when the lengths of the first
and/or second time intervals are varied, the transmitted power over the first coil are varied.
[0292]      - The electric circuit is adapted to provide the electrical pulses varying the lengths of
the first and/or the second time intervals only within a range that includes the first time
constant or that is located relatively close to the first time constant, compared to the magnitude
of the first time constant.
[0293]      Figs. 42-45 show in more detail block diagrams of four different ways of hydraulically
or pneumatically powering an implanted apparatus according to the invention.
[0294]      Fig. 42 shows a system as described above with. The system comprises an
implanted apparatus 10 and further a separate regulation reservoir 1013, a one way pump
1009 and an alternate valve 1014.
[0295]      Fig. 43 shows the apparatus 10 and a fluid reservoir 1013. By moving the wall of the
regulation reservoir or changing the size of the same in any other different way, the adjustment
of the apparatus may be performed without any valve, just free passage of fluid any time by
moving the reservoir wall.
[0296]      Fig. 44 shows the apparatus 10, a two way pump 1009 and the regulation reservoir
1013.

                                                - 61
[0297]      Fig. 45 shows a block diagram of a reversed servo system with a first closed system
controlling a second closed system. The servo system comprises a regulation reservoir 1013
and a servo reservoir 1050. The servo reservoir 1050 mechanically controls an implanted
apparatus 10 via a mechanical interconnection 1054. The apparatus has an
expandable/contactable cavity. This cavity is preferably expanded or contracted by supplying
hydraulic fluid from the larger adjustable reservoir 1052 in fluid connection with the apparatus
10. Alternatively, the cavity contains compressible gas, which can be compressed and
expanded under the control of the servo reservoir 1050.
[0298]      The servo reservoir 1050 can also be part of the apparatus itself.
[0299]      In one embodiment, the regulation reservoir is placed subcutaneous under the
patient's skin and is operated by pushing the outer surface thereof by means of a finger. This
system is illustrated in Figs 46a-c. In Fig. 46a, a flexible subcutaneous regulation reservoir
1013 is shown connected to a bulge shaped servo reservoir 1050 by means of a conduit 1011.
This bellow shaped servo reservoir 1050 is comprised in a flexible apparatus 10. In the state
shown in Fig. 46a, the servo reservoir 1050 contains a minimum of fluid and most fluid is found
in the regulation reservoir 1013. Due to the mechanical interconnection between the servo
reservoir 1050 and the apparatus 10, the outer shape of the apparatus 10 is contracted, i.e., it
occupies less than its maximum volume. This maximum volume is shown with dashed lines in
the figure.
[0300]      Fig. 46b shows a state wherein a user, such as the patient in with the apparatus is
implanted, presses the regulation reservoir 1013 so that fluid contained therein is brought to
flow through the conduit 1011 and into the servo reservoir 1050, which, thanks to its bellow
shape, expands longitudinally. This expansion in turn expands the apparatus 10 so that it
occupies its maximum volume, thereby stretching the stomach wall (not shown), which it
contacts.
[0301]      The regulation reservoir 1013 is preferably provided with means 1013a for keeping
its shape after compression. This means, which is schematically shown in the figure, will thus
keep the apparatus 10 in a stretched position also when the user releases the regulation
reservoir. In this way, the regulation reservoir essentially operates as an on/off switch for the
system.

                                                - 62
[0302]     An alternative embodiment of hydraulic or pneumatic operation will now be described
with reference to Figs. 47 and 48a-c. The block diagram shown in Fig. 47 comprises with a first
closed system controlling a second closed system. The first system comprises a regulation
reservoir 1013 and a servo reservoir 1050. The servo reservoir 1050 mechanically controls a
larger adjustable reservoir 1052 via a mechanical interconnection 1054. An implanted
apparatus 10 having an expandable/contactable cavity is in turn controlled by the larger
adjustable reservoir 1052 by supply of hydraulic fluid from the larger adjustable reservoir 1052
in fluid connection with the apparatus 10.
[0303]     An example of this embodiment will now be described with reference to Fig. 48a-c.
Like in the previous embodiment, the regulation reservoir is placed subcutaneous under the
patient's skin and is operated by pushing the outer surface thereof by means of a finger. The
regulation reservoir 1013 is in fluid connection with a bellow shaped servo reservoir 1050 by
means of a conduit 1011. In the first closed system 1013, 1011, 1050 shown in Fig. 48a, the
servo reservoir 1050 contains a minimum of fluid and most fluid is found in the regulation
reservoir 1013.
[0304]     The servo reservoir 1050 is mechanically connected to a larger adjustable reservoir
1052, in this example also having a bellow shape but with a larger diameter than the servo
reservoir 1050. The larger adjustable reservoir 1052 is in fluid connection with the apparatus
10. This means that when a user pushes the regulation reservoir 1013, thereby displacing fluid
from the regulation reservoir 1013 to the servo reservoir 1050, the expansion of the servo
reservoir 1050 will displace a larger volume of fluid from the larger adjustable reservoir 1052 to
the apparatus 10. In other words, in this reversed servo, a small volume in the regulation
reservoir is compressed with a higher force and this creates a movement of a larger total area
with less force per area unit.
[0305]     Like in the previous embodiment described above with reference to Figs. 46a-c, the
regulation reservoir 1013 is preferably provided with means 1013a for keeping its shape after
compression. This means, which is schematically shown in the figure, will thus keep the
apparatus 10 in a stretched position also when the user releases the regulation reservoir. In
this way, the regulation reservoir essentially operates as an on/off switch for the system.
[0306]     One single volume filling device has been described as invaginated in the stomach
wall. Alternatively, two or more volume filling devices 10 may be invaginated to obtain the

                                                 - 63
desired reduction of the food cavity. One such example is illustrated in Fig. 48, wherein three
ball-shaped volume filling devices 10 are invaginated in the wall of the patent's stomach 12.
[0307]     It has been described how the volume filling device 10 is invaginated in the stomach
wall by means of a gastroscopic instrument. It will be appreciated that abdominal operation
methods can be used as well. Such methods will now be described in detail with reference to
Figs. 49a and 49b.
[0308]     Fig. 50 shows an embodiment of an apparatus according to the invention. Fig 50
shows the segments of a volume filling device to be assembled before implantation in a patient
in the need of treatment for a reflux disease. The volume filling device segments include a core
part 560 and four outer parts 561a-561d. The generally cylindrical core part is provided with an
upper part 560' and is provided with four slits 562a-562d which are symmetrically distributed
end extend along the peripheral outside of the core part, The outer parts 561a-561s are shown
as generally being a part of sphere having an inner and outer surface and each part is
provided with a protruding flange 563a-563d extending along the inner surface. The flanges
563a-563d matches the slits 562a-562d in the depicted embodiment, but can be arranged with
loose fits between flanges and slits so the assembled volume filling device sufficiently is
assembled at its implanted target position above the cardia. If the volume filling device
inadvertently is displaced from this position to the stomach cavity, a loose fit arrangement
contributes to a more rapid disassembly its segments. The core part is connected to a guiding
wire 564 which extends through first channel 565 in the core part through a corresponding
channel 565a between two neighboring orifices in the protrusion 563a in the first outer part
561a. When operating on the guiding wire 564 by displacing it away from the core part upper
surface 560' the first outer part 561a will be displaced towards the core part and the flange
563a meets the slit 562a so the first outer part is assembled to the core part 560. As
demonstrated in Fig. 51, this performance is repeated with the second outer part, now by the
guiding wire 564 through the second channel 566 connected to a corresponding channel in the
flange 563b of second outer part 561 b. Fig. 52 shows this performance again for assembling
the third outer part 561c and third channel 567 connecting the guiding wire 564 to flange 563c.
Fig. 53 shows the fourth and last outer part 561d being assembled through flange 563d and
channel 568. Fig. 54 shows the finally assembled volume filling device. Fig. 55a is a more
detailed view of the core part showing the system of channels for the guiding wire. Fig. 55b to
55d are crossectional views of planes 1-1, ll-II, Ill-Ill and IV-IV, respectively each at the level for
four channels.

                                                - 64
[0309]      The guiding wire is made of a biodegradable material that is degraded so the
segments readily become disassembled if the volume filling device accidently becomes
displaced from its implanted position. The segments depicted are made from a biocompatible
solid material and are each of size and shape so they readily pass through the gastrointestinal
system if the volume filling device is disassembled. When implanting the so assembled volume
filling device any of the previously described methods will be suitable.
[0310]      Fig. 56 shows an embodiment of the volume filling device to be assembled. The
outline of the core part and the segments is identical as has been shown in Fig. 50, but the
flanges of the segments 563a-d are provided with recesses 563'a-d that match protrusions
562'a-d of the slits 562a-d of the core part so the assembled movement device becomes
locked along two different planes. In this embodiment, these planes are perpendicularly
arranged. Fig. 57 shows another embodiment of the volume filling device according to Fig. 56
without any guiding wire and without any features for the guiding wire in the segments. This
embodiment requires that matching element locking elements are adapted to assist with the
disassembly if the volume filling device inadvertently becomes displaced from its implanted
position.
[0311]      It is evident from the general description and the appended claims that many of other
ways designing the volume filling device is possible without departing from this concept.
[0312]      The volume filling device may be implanted using a laparoscopic method instead of
the intraluminal method described above. According to this example, a needle or a tube-like
instrument is inserted into the abdomen of the patient's body, and said needle or tube-like
instrument is then used to fill the patient's abdomen with gas. Subsequently, at least two
laparoscopic trocars are inserted into the patient's body; and a camera is inserted through one
of said at least two laparoscopic trocars. Then, at least one dissecting tool through one of said
at least two laparoscopic trocars, and an area of the stomach is dissected. The volume filling
device is then introduced into the abdominal cavity, and placed on the outside of the stomach
wall. A pouch in the stomach wall for the device is created, and the device invaginated in said
pouch by providing sutures or staples to the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume
filling device so that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially
exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
[0313]      The above first alternative preferably further comprises affixing the device to the
stomach wall by providing sutures or staples.

                                                - 65
[0314]      The above example preferably further comprises providing an apparatus for
regulating the obesity treatment device from the outside of the patient's body; and operating
said apparatus to regulate the obesity treatment device. Further, regulation of the obesity
treatment device includes changing the volume of a filling body of the volume filling device
when implanted.
[0315]      The above example preferably further comprises providing an injection type syringe
comprising a fluid for injection into an implanted filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into
said filling body.
[0316]      According to an example, the device is enclosed in the pouch or partially enclosed in
that the pouch is left at least partly open. Further, the pouch can be designed to exhibit only
one opening. Alternatively the pouch is designed to exhibit two openings and to extend non
circumferentially around the stomach.
[0317]      Preferably the pouch has a volume of more than 15 milliliters.
[0318]      In a second alternative, also using a laparoscopic method instead of the intraluminal
method, the initial steps are the same as described in the first alternative, but following
dissection of the stomach, a hole is created in the stomach wall and a volume filling device
introduced into the abdominal cavity and through said hole into the stomach. The device is
placed on the inside of the stomach wall, and a pouch is created on the outside of the stomach
cavity for the device placed on the inside of the stomach wall, and the device is invaginated in
the pouch by providing sutures or staples to the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume
filling device so that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially
exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
[0319]      The above example preferably further comprises affixing the device to the stomach
wall by providing sutures or staples. According to one example, the stomach wall is affixed to
the lower part of the patient's esophagus by providing sutures or staples.
[0320]      The above second alternative preferably further comprises providing an apparatus
for regulating the obesity treatment device from the outside of the patient's body; and operating
said apparatus to regulate the obesity treatment device. Further, regulation of the obesity
treatment device includes changing the volume of a filling body of the volume filling device
when implanted.

                                                 - 66
[0321]      The above example preferably further comprises providing an injection type syringe
comprising a fluid for injection into an implanted filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into
said filling body.
[0322]      According to an embodiment, the device is enclosed in the pouch or partially
enclosed in that the pouch is left at least partly open. Further, the pouch can be designed to
exhibit only one opening. Alternatively the pouch is designed to exhibit two openings and to
extend non-circumferentially around the stomach.
[0323]      Preferably the pouch has a volume of more than 15 milliliters.
[0324]      A third alternative involves a surgical incision instead of the either the intraluminal or
the laparoscopic method. Here, an opening in the patient's abdominal wall is made by surgical
incision, and an area of the patient's stomach is dissected. The volume filling device is
introduced through said abdominal incision, and attached to the stomach wall, thereby
positioning the volume filling device so that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by
a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
[0325]      In an alternative example of the above, third alternative, the initial steps are the
same including the dissection of an area of the stomach. Following this, a pouch in the
stomach wall is created for the device, and the device invaginated in the pouch by providing
sutures or staples to the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the
volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of
the volume filling device.
[0326]      In yet another alternative example of the above, third alternative, the initial steps are
the same including the dissection of an area of the stomach. Following this, a hole in the
stomach wall is created and the volume filling device introduced through the hole and into the
stomach. The device is then placed on the inside of the stomach wall, and a pouch on the
stomach wall created for the device. The device is then invaginated in the pouch by providing
sutures or staples to the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the
volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of
the volume filling device.
[0327]      The above examples of the third alternative further comprise affixing the device to
the stomach wall by providing sutures or staples.

                                                 - 67
[0328]      The above example preferably further comprises providing an apparatus for
regulating the obesity treatment device from the outside of the patient's body; and operating
said apparatus to regulate the obesity treatment device. Further, regulation of the obesity
treatment device includes changing the volume of a filling body of the volume filling device
when implanted.
[0329]      The above example preferably further comprises providing an injection type syringe
comprising a fluid for injection into an implanted filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into
said filling body.
[0330]      According to an example, the device is enclosed in the pouch or partially enclosed in
that the pouch is left at least partly open. Further, the pouch can be designed to exhibit only
one opening. Alternatively the pouch is designed to exhibit two openings and to extend non
circumferentially around the stomach.
[0331]      Preferably the pouch has a volume of more than 15 milliliters.
[0332]      A fourth alternative example is a method comprising the steps of inserting a needle
or a tube-like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body; using said needle or tube-like
instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas; placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in
the patient's body; inserting a camera through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars into
the patient's abdomen; inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least two
laparoscopic trocars; dissecting an area of the stomach; creating a pouch from the stomach
wall for the device; closing the pouch by providing sutures and staples; introducing a injecting
member comprising an injectable filling material; and injecting the filling material into the
pouch, thereby creating a filling body that fills a volume in the patient's stomach, reducing the
food cavity in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
[0333]      Instead of the above disclosed laparoscopic method, a surgical incision or opening is
cut in the skin to enter the patient's abdomen; an area of the stomach dissected; a pouch
created from the stomach wall for the device; and said pouch closed by providing sutures and
staples. An injecting member comprising an injectable filling material is then introduced; and
the filling material injected into the pouch, thereby creating a filling body that reduces the food
cavity in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.

                                                 - 68
[0334]      According to an alternative example of the above, the pouch is created on the
outside of the stomach wall, with the filling body placed against the inside of the stomach wall.
[0335]      The method according to either of the two previous examples comprises creating a
hole in the stomach wall wherein the pouch is created on the inside of the stomach wall, with
the filling body placed against the outside of the stomach wall.
[0336]      The method according to either of the two previous examples may further comprise
affixing the stomach wall to the lower part of the patient's esophagus by providing sutures or
staples or affixing the stomach wall to the patient's diaphragm muscle or other muscle tissue.
[0337]      Preferably the pouch has a volume of more than 15 milliliters.
[0338]      In a method according to either of the two previous examples the filling material is
preferably capable of undergoing a curing process from a fluid state to a semi-solid or solid
state. Preferably said curing process is triggered by an increase in temperature from ambient
temperature to body temperature.
[0339]      A method of treating obesity in a patient may include implanting a volume filling
device that, when implanted in a patient, reduces the food cavity in size by a volume
substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device, the method comprising the
steps of:
            inserting a needle or a tube-like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body;
            using said needle or tube-like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas;
            placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body;
            inserting a camera through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars into the
patient's abdomen;
            inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least two laparoscopic
trocars;
            dissecting an area of the stomach;
            creating a hole in the stomach wall;
            introducing a device into the abdominal cavity;
            introducing the device through the hole and into the stomach;
            placing the device on the outside of the stomach wall;
            fixating the device placed on the outside of the stomach wall, and

                                                - 69
           thereby creating a filling body that reduces the food cavity in size by a volume
substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
[0340]     In the above method, the device is preferably affixed to the stomach wall by
providing sutures or staples.
[0341]     A laparoscopic instrument for providing a volume filling device to be invaginated in
the stomach wall of a human patient to treat obesity, may be suitable for use with any of the
laparoscopic methods described above, the instrument comprising:
           an elongated member having a proximal end and a distal end, the elongated
member having a diameter less than that of a laparoscopic trocar to be introduced into the
patients abdomen during a laparoscopic operation;
           a stomach pushing device for pushing the stomach wall to create a tube-like shaped
portion of the stomach wall protruding into the normal stomach cavity, said pushing device
comprising the volume filling device to be invaginated by the stomach wall in the tube-like
shaped portion thereof;
           wherein the pushing device comprises a vacuum device to suck the stomach fundus
to assist the instrument in forming the tube-like shaped portion of the stomach wall together
with the pushing device, and wherein the vacuum device comprises a vacuum passageway
leading from the proximal to the distal end of the instrument and at the end portion of the
instrument, which includes the pushing device, said vacuum passageway is divided up in
multiple small openings adapted to suck the stomach wall portion to become adherent to the
pushing device to further form the tube-like stomach wall portion; and
           wherein the instrument comprises an insertion device adapted to introduce the
volume filling device into the tube-like shaped stomach portion.
[0342]     This instrument preferably comprises at least one clamping device for holding the
opening of the tube-like portion substantially closed by clamping together stomach to stomach
in said opening, wherein the instrument is adapted to place the at least one clamping device at
the opening in such a way that it allows later suturing of the opening.
[0343]     Further, the instrument preferably comprises an inflation device for inflating the
volume filling device before or after the suturing. Further still, the instrument preferably
comprises a suturing device adapted to suture the opening of the tube-like portion with
stomach to stomach sutures for creating at least partly a closed space enclosing the volume

                                                 - 70
filling device, wherein the instrument is adapted to be withdrawn leaving the volume filling
device at least partly invaginated in the stomach wall.
[0344]      Said suturing device preferably comprises a first and second suture positioning
member provided on the elongated member situated in the stomach at the distal end thereof,
and wherein the instrument further comprises an operation device adapted to adjust the first
and second suturing member in a position in which the first and second suture positioning
members are in front of each other with the stomach wall on both sides of the open end of the
cup like portion, and adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the wall with a
row of stomach to stomach sutures.
[0345]      Preferably said suturing device comprises an operable re-loadable multi-suturing
device, which is reloadable with sutures from outside of the patient's body and which is
adapted to suture the open end of the cup like portion of the wall with said row of stomach to
stomach sutures, wherein the row of sutures comprises two or more sutures or staples to be
sutured simultaneously.
[0346]      More preferably, said suturing device comprises multiple sutures for suturing two or
more sutures simultaneously.
[0347]      It is understood that a skilled person is in the position of combining steps, changing
the order of steps, and combining elements of the different embodiments of the invention
without inventive effort, and without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the
description and claims.
[0348]      Please note that all the embodiments or features of an embodiment as well as any
method or step of a method could be combined in any way if such combination is not clearly
contradictory. Please also note that the description in general should be seen as describing
both an apparatus or device adapted to perform a method as well as this method in itself.
[0349]      While specific embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described
herein, it is realized that numerous other embodiments may be envisaged and that numerous
additional advantages, modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, the invention in its
broader aspects is not limited to the specific details, representative devices and illustrated
examples shown and described herein. Accordingly, various modifications may be made

                                                 - 71
without departing from the spirit or scope of the general inventive concept as defined by the
appended claims and their equivalents. It is therefore to be understood that the appended
claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within a true spirit and
scope of the invention. Numerous other embodiments may be envisaged without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention.
[0350]      Below is a list of aspects
[0351]      Aspect 1           An apparatus for treating obesity in a human or animal mammal
patient, the apparatus comprising:
               a two or more volume filling device segments adapted to be assembled to an
implantable volume filling device of a controlled size, wherein the assembled volume filling
combination device is adapted to be at least subs         tantially be invaginated by a stomach
wall portion of a patient, wherein said assembled volume filling device is adapted to be placed
with the outer surface of the device resting against the stomach wall, such that the volume of
the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the
assembled volume filling device, when the assembled volume filling device is invaginated in
the stomach wall, and wherein said assembled volume filling device is adapted to disassemble
into its volume filling device segments if the assembled volume filling device leaves its
implanted invaginated stomach position and inadvertently penetrates the stomach wall to
become located inside the stomach including penetrating the stomach wall to retain a position
inside the stomach, wherein said segments are adapted to separately pass through the food,
thereby reducing risk for causing obstruction/ileus in the patients intestine.
[0352]      Aspect 2.          The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the assembled volume
filling device has a minimum circumference of at least 15 millimeters.
[0353]      Aspect 3.          The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments has at least a part of an outer surface including a biocompatible material.
[0354]      Aspect 4.          An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to pass through a trocar, for assembly and implantation of said
volume filling device into the abdominal cavity.
[0355]      Aspect 5.          An apparatus according to aspect 4, the volume filling device
segments have a flexible outer shape adapted to pass through a trocar.

                                              - 72
[0356]     Aspect 6.        An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to have a shape allowing them to be assembled into said
volume filling device, when implanted.
[0357]     Aspect 7.        An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments are hollow with a flexible outer surface.
[0358]     Aspect 8.        An apparatus according to aspect 7, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to be filled with at least one of a fluid a foam, a gel or a fluid that
hardens to a solid material.
[0359]     Aspect 9.        An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments are solid.
[0360]     Aspect 10.       An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to temporary be holding their assembled position.
[0361]     Aspect 11.       An apparatus according to aspect 10, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to permanently hold their assembled position by the invaginated
stomach wall.
[0362]     Aspect 12.       An apparatus according to aspect 11, wherein the volume filling
device segments are adapted to temporary be holding their assembled position by an
adhesive.
[0363]     Aspect 13.       An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the segments are of
size that admits free passage through the gastrointestinal system.
[0364]     Aspect 14.       An apparatus according aspect 1, wherein that each segment is
provided with at least one assembly element that sufficiently fits with at least one assembly
element of another segment, so the segments by fitting assembly elements can be assembled
into the implantable volume filling device.
[0365]     Aspect 15.       An apparatus according to aspect 14, wherein the segments
comprise a core part and a plurality of outer parts.

                                               - 73
[0366]      Aspect 16.       An apparatus according to aspect 14, wherein the assembly
element is selected among sufficiently fitting flanges and slits.
[0367]      Aspect 17.       An apparatus according to aspect 15, wherein the core part is
adapted to receive and assemble the outer elements into an implantable volume filling device.
[0368]      Aspect 18.       An apparatus according to aspect 17, wherein the core part has
assembly slits adapted to receive corresponding assembly flanges of the outer parts when
assembling the volume filling device.
[0369]      Aspect 19.       An apparatus according to aspect 18, wherein the slits are
distributed around the outer peripheral area of the core part.
[0370]      Aspect 20.       An apparatus according to any of aspects 14 to 19, wherein the at
least one assembly element immobilizes each of the volume filling device segments to a core
part along a first plane, and wherein the volume filling device segments and the core part
further comprises second assembly elements, which following the assembly of said segments
and core part, immobilize each segment and core part along a second plane in an angle to
said first plane.
[0371]      Aspect 21.       An apparatus according to any of aspects 1 to 20, wherein the
apparatus further comprises a guiding device, operable for assembling the volume filling
device segments to an implantable volume filling device.
[0372]      Aspect 22.       An apparatus according to aspect 20, wherein the guiding device is
an operation wire operably connected to the segments.
[0373]      Aspect 23.       An apparatus according to aspect 21, wherein the operation wire is
made of a material that is biodegradable in contact with the body fluid in the abdominal cavity
so as to admit disassembly of the volume filling device into its segments.
[0374]      Aspect 24.       An apparatus according to aspect 23, wherein an operation wire is
connected to the core part and to the outer parts so the outer parts can be sequentially
assembled to the core part so as to assemble the volume filling device.
[0375]      Aspect 25.       An apparatus according to aspect 24, wherein the operation wire is
connected to the assembly flanges of the outer part.

                                                - 74
[0376]      Aspect 26.        An apparatus according to aspect 25, wherein the core part is
provided with at least one operation channel for receiving the operation wire.
[0377]      Aspect 27.        An apparatus according to aspect 26, wherein the each outer part is
connected to two operation channels by the operation wire.
[0378]      Aspect 28.        An apparatus according to aspect 27, wherein a first operation
channel has a first orifice in an end surface of the core part and second orifice in a first slit of
the core part, so when displacing the operation wire received in said first operation channel in
a direction from said end surface, a first outer part is assembled to said core part.
[0379]      Aspect 29.        An apparatus according to aspect 28, wherein a second operation
channel has two orifices in a second slit of the core part, so when displacing the operation wire
connected to the first operation cannel in a directed from the end surface, a second outer part
is assembled to said core part.
[0380]      Aspect 30.        An apparatus according to aspect 29, having three or more outer
parts assembled to designated slits of the core part with the operation wire through operation
channels having orifices in each designated slit of said core part.
[0381]      Aspect 31.        An apparatus according to aspect 29, wherein the operation wire
protrudes from the first channel orifice so it can be operated on with an instrument to displace
said operation wire and a first outer element so its assembly flange fits with its designated first
assembly slit on the core element, and in a predetermined sequence in the same manner
displacing the remaining outer elements so as to assemble the implantable volume filling
device.
[0382]      Aspect 32.        An apparatus according to aspect 1, comprising more than three
volume filling device segments.
[0383]      Aspect 33.        An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled volume
filling device having a maximum circumference of at least 30 millimeters.
[0384]      Aspect 34.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least o part of the
assembled volume filling device is inflatable or expandable to an expanded state and wherein
one or more of the volume filling device segments is inflatable or expandable to an expanded
state.

                                              - 75
[0385]     Aspect 35.       The apparatus according to aspect 34, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segment has an inlet port for a fluid or a gel and is adapted to be
connected to a gastroscopic instrument.
[0386]     Aspect 36.       The apparatus according to aspect 35, wherein the inlet port
comprises a fluid connection adapted to interconnect the inflatable device and the gastroscopic
instrument.
[0387]     Aspect 37.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device and/or one or more of the volume filling device segments have an
elongated shape.
[0388]     Aspect 38.       The apparatus according to aspect 37, wherein the assembled
volume filling device and/or one or more of the volume filling device segments have a rounded
shape.
[0389]     Aspect 39.       The apparatus according to aspect 38, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a bent or curved shape.
[0390]     Aspect 40.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein one or more of the
volume filling device segments comprises an elastic material.
[0391]     Aspect 41.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
assembled volume filling device comprises a bio-compatible material.
[0392]     Aspect 42.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
assembled volume filling device and one or more of the volume filling device segments
comprises silicone.
[0393]     Aspect 43.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
assembled volume filling device and one or more of the volume filling device segments is
provided with at least one layer.
[0394]     Aspect 44.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer is a Parylene layer.

                                               - 76
[0395]     Aspect 45.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer is a polytetrafluoroethylene layer.
[0396]     Aspect 46.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer is a polyurethane layer.
[0397]     Aspect 47.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer comprises a silicon layer.
[0398]     Aspect 48.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer comprises a metal layer.
[0399]     Aspect 49.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises a fluid.
[0400]     Aspect 50.       The apparatus according to aspect 49, wherein the fluid is adapted
to be transformed into solid state or fixed form.
[0401]     Aspect 51.       The apparatus according to aspect 49, wherein the fluid is liquid
polyurethane.
[0402]     Aspect 52.       The apparatus according to aspect 49, wherein the fluid is iso-tonic.
[0403]     Aspect 53.       The apparatus according to aspect 49, wherein the fluid comprises
large molecules to prevent diffusion.
[0404]     Aspect 54.       The apparatus according to aspect 49, wherein the fluid comprises
iodine molecules.
[0405]     Aspect 55.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises a homogenous material.
[0406]     Aspect 56.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments is a solid body.
[0407]     Aspect 57.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises an enclosure wall defining a chamber.

                                             - 77
[0408]     Aspect 58.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises a rigid outer surface.
[0409]     Aspect 59.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises an elastic outer surface.
[0410]     Aspect 60.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises a flexible outer surface.
[0411]     Aspect 61.       The apparatus according to aspect 33, wherein the assembled
volume filling device as a maximum circumference of at least 30 millimeters.
[0412]     Aspect 62.       The apparatus according to aspect 61, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a circumference of at least 80 millimeters.
[0413]     Aspect 63.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a volume of between 0.00001 and 0.001 m3.
[0414]     Aspect 64.       The apparatus according to aspect 63, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a volume of between 0.00001 and 0.0002 m3.
[0415]     Aspect 65.       The apparatus according to aspect 33, wherein the volume filling
device segments is deformable to a maximum diameter, so as to be inserted into a
laparoscopic trocar.
[0416]     Aspect 66.       The apparatus according to aspect 33, wherein the volume filling
device segments adapted to be assembled is adapted to be kept in place by stomach-to
stomach sutures or staples to invaginate the device in the stomach wall, when implanted and
assembled.
[0417]     Aspect 67.       The apparatus according to aspect 66, wherein the stomach-to
stomach sutures or staples are provided with fixation portions exhibiting a structure adapted to
be in contact with the stomach wall to promote growth in of human tissue to secure long term
placement of the volume filling device attached to the stomach wall.
[0418]     Aspect 68.       The apparatus according to aspect 67, wherein the structure
comprises a net like structure.

                                               - 78
[0419]     Aspect 69.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device is adapted to be non-invasively adjustable postoperatively.
[0420]     Aspect 70.       The apparatus according to aspect 33, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has varying circumference to be better adapted to be kept in place
invaginated in the stomach wall of the patient.
[0421]     Aspect 71.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, comprising a stretching
device placed outside the stomach wall and adapted to stretch a part of the stomach wall,
thereby affecting the patient's appetite, the apparatus further comprising a fluid connection
interconnecting the stretching device and the assembled volume filling device
[0422]     Aspect 72.       The apparatus according to aspect 71, wherein the assembled
volume filling device is adapted to be placed outside the stomach wall via a gastroscopic
instrument.
[0423]     Aspect 73.       The apparatus according to aspect 71, wherein the assembled
volume filling device and stretching device as at least two interconnectable portions of the
apparatus is adapted to be placed outside the stomach wall as separate portions.
[0424]     Aspect 74.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
assembled volume filling device comprises an outer surface layer of polyurethane, Teflon@, or
PTFE, or a combination thereof.
[0425]     Aspect 75.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments is destructible by acid, preferably hydrochloric acid.
[0426]     Aspect 76.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
assembled volume filling device comprises a gel.
[0427]     Aspect 77.       The apparatus according to aspect 76, wherein the gel has a shore
value of less than 15.
[0428]     Aspect 78.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device segments comprises an attachment device adapted to co-operate with a gripping
instrument.

                                              - 79
[0429]     Aspect 79.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device is adapted to be completely invaginated by the stomach wall of the
patient.
[0430]     Aspect 80.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, comprising a fixating device
adapted to fixate the volume filling device or the segments thereof to the stomach wall to keep
the volume filling device in place, when the volume filling device is implanted.
[0431]     Aspect 81.        The apparatus according to aspect 63, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a volume of less than 0.0002 m3.
[0432]     Aspect 82.        The apparatus according to aspect 63, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a volume of between 0.0001 and 0.001 m3.
[0433]     Aspect 83.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least a part of the
volume filling device is made of a material which is not destructible by acid.
[0434]     Aspect 84.        The apparatus according to aspect 61, wherein the volume filling
device has a circumference of at least 70 mm.
[0435]     Aspect 85.        The apparatus according to aspect 61, wherein the volume filling
device has a circumference of at least 1110 mm.
[0436]     Aspect 86.        The apparatus according to aspect 61, wherein the volume filling
device has a circumference of at least 160 mm.
[0437]     Aspect 87.        The apparatus according to aspect 61, wherein the volume filling
device has a circumference of at least 220 mm.
[0438]     Aspect 88.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises a flexible non-elastic material.
[0439]     Aspect 89.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, further comprising a fixation
device adapted to be involved in the fixation of the volume filling device to the stomach wall.

                                               - 80
[0440]     Aspect 90.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, further comprising two or
more fixation devices adapted to be involved in the fixation of the volume filling device to the
stomach wall.
[0441]     Aspect 91.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device including at least one of the volume filling device segments comprises a
holding device adapted to be held by an instrument and simplify the implantation of the device.
[0442]     Aspect 92.       The apparatus according to aspect 91, wherein the volume filling
device comprises two or more holding devices adapted to be held by an instrument and
simplify the implantation of the device.
[0443]     Aspect 93.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein at least one of the
volume filling device segments comprises an inflatable chamber, further comprising at least
one tube connected to the device for supplying fluid to the chamber.
[0444]     Aspect 94.       The apparatus according to aspect 93, further comprising an
injection port connectible with the tube.
[0445]     Aspect 95.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the volume filling
device has a maximum circumference as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the
device, and wherein the circumferences of the device as seen in other planes perpendicular to
said axis are equal to the maximum circumference or decrease as seen along said axis in the
direction from the maximum circumference.
[0446]     Aspect 96.       The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the circumference of
the volume filling device as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through the device
increases and decreases at least two times as the plane is displaced along said axis, or
decreases and increases at least one time as the plane is displaced along said axis.
[0447]     Aspect 97.       The apparatus according to aspect 48, wherein the metal layer
comprises any of gold, silver, and titanium, or a combination thereof.
[0448]     Aspect 98.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the at least one
layer comprises a Teflon@ layer.

                                                  - 81
[0449]      Aspect 99.         The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the volume filling
device is provided with a plurality of layers.
[0450]      Aspect 100.        The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an outer surface layer of polyurethane, Teflon@, or
polytetra'fluoro'ethylene, Parylene, silicone, metal, or a combination thereof.
[0451]      Aspect 101.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
volume filling device comprises at least one operable stretching device implantable in an
obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall; and an operation
device for operating the stretching device when implanted to stretch the stomach wall portion
such that satiety is created.
[0452]      Aspect 102.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 101, wherein
the volume filling device comprises an implantable control unit for automatically controlling the
operable stretching device, when the control unit and stretching device are implanted, to
stretch the stomach wall portion in connection with the patient eating such that satiety is
created.
[0453]      Aspect 103.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 101, wherein
said stretching device comprising an expandable stretching reservoir, wherein the volume
filling device is inflatable and in fluid connection with said stretching reservoir, wherein said
operation device comprises a pump for pumping fluid between said main reservoir and said
stretching reservoir to stretch said stomach wall portion.
[0454]      Aspect 104.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 103,
comprising a control device for controlling said stretching device including said pump.
[0455]      Aspect 105.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 104, wherein
said control device comprising a wireless remote control adapted to control the stretching
device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0456]      Aspect 106.        An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 104, wherein
said control device comprising a subcutaneously placed switch or reservoir adapted to control
the stretching device from the outside of the patient's body.

                                                - 82
[0457]     Aspect 107.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 104, wherein
said control device comprising an implantable control unit for controlling said stretching device.
[0458]     Aspect 108.        The device according to aspect 107, comprising a sensor or
sensing device adapted to be implanted in the patient body, wherein the implantable control
unit is adapted to control the stretching device from the inside of the patient's body using
information from said a sensor or sensing device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food
intake of the patient.
[0459]     Aspect 109.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device comprises a main volume filling reservoir; and at least one
operable stretching device implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of
the patient's stomach wall, wherein said stretching device comprising an expandable reservoir,
adapted to be invaginated in the stomach wall at the upper part of the stomach, higher up than
the inflatable main volume filling device when the patient is standing, wherein the volume filling
device is inflatable and in fluid connection with said stretching reservoir, wherein normal
contractions of the stomach wall, related to food intake, cause fluid to flow from said
invaginated main volume filling reservoir lower placed onto the stomach wall adapted to cause
said stretching reservoir to stretch said stomach wall portion such that satiety is created.
[0460]     Aspect 110.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 109, wherein
the fluid connection between the main volume filling device reservoir and the stretching
reservoir comprises a non-return valve.
[0461]     Aspect 111.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 109, wherein
the fluid connection between the main volume filling device reservoir and the stretching
reservoir comprises a release function adapted to release the volume in the stretching
reservoir back to the main volume filling device reservoir.
[0462]     Aspect 112.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 109, wherein
said release function comprises a fluid return connection of a substantially smaller area than
said fluid connection, to slowly release back fluid to said main volume filling device reservoir
from the stretching reservoir to release said stretching of the stomach wall portion.
[0463]     Aspect 113.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 109,
comprising a manual control device comprising a subcutaneously placed reservoir adapted to

                                                - 83
control the stretching device from the outside of the patient's body to further affect the
stretching device to stretch the stomach wall portion.
[0464]      Aspect 114.     An apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled volume
filling device comprises a main volume filling device reservoir adapted to be inflatable, the
apparatus further comprising an expandable structure, adapted to expand, when the device is
invaginated in the stomach wall, wherein said structure comprising a bellow adapted to take
into account the fibrosis surrounding the device when implanted, such that the movement of
the bellow is substantially unaffected of said fibrosis.
[0465]      Aspect 115.     An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device comprises at least one operable stretching device implantable
in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's stomach wall and wherein
the stretching device comprising a expandable structure, adapted to expand and stretch the
stomach wall portion, when the assembled volume filling device being invaginated in the
stomach wall, wherein said structure comprising a special bellow adapted to take into account
the fibrosis surrounding the device when implanted, such that the movement of the bellow is
substantially un-affected of said fibrosis.
[0466]      Aspect 116.     An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 115,
comprising
[0467]      an operation device for operating the stretching device when implanted to stretch the
stomach wall portion such that satiety is created.
[0468]      Aspect 117.     An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 115, wherein
the volume filling device comprises an implantable control unit for automatically controlling the
operable stretching device, when the control unit and stretching device are implanted, to
stretch the stomach wall portion in connection with the patient eating such that satiety is
created.
[0469]      Aspect 118.     An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
volume filling device comprises a stretching device comprising at least one operable stretching
device implantable in an obese patient and adapted to stretch a portion of the patient's
stomach wall such that satiety is created.

                                                - 84
[0470]     Aspect 119.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 118, wherein
said control device comprising a wireless remote control adapted to control the stretching
device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0471]     Aspect 120.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 118, wherein
said control device comprising a subcutaneously placed switch or reservoir adapted to control
the stretching device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0472]     Aspect 121.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 118, wherein
said control device comprising an implantable control unit for controlling said stretching device.
[0473]     Aspect 122.       The device according to anyone of aspect 121, comprising a sensor
or sensing device adapted to be implanted in the patient body, wherein the implantable control
unit is adapted to control the stretching device from the inside of the patient's body using
information from said a sensor or sensing device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food
intake of the patient.
[0474]     Aspect 123.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device, further comprises a stretching device comprising three or
more mechanical parts engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each,
wherein said engagement includes suturing or stapling to the stomach wall or invaginating the
mechanical parts in the stomach wall part with stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the three
or more mechanical parts are adapted to move in relation to each other adapted to stretch
three different wall portions, the stretching device further adapted to having said wall portions
stretched independently from each other regarding force used for stretching the stomach wall
portion, as well as the time periods the stretching is applied, and when the stretching is
applied.
[0475]     Aspect 124.       An apparatus for treating obesity according aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device, further comprises a stretching device comprising two or more
hydraulic parts engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each, wherein said
engagement includes suturing or stapling to hydraulic part to the stomach wall or invaginating
the hydraulic parts in the stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the two
or more hydraulic parts are adapted to move in relation to each other adapted to stretch three
different wall portions, the stretching device further adapted to having said wall portions

                                                - 85
stretched independently from each other regarding force used for stretching the stomach wall
portion, as well as the time periods the stretching is applied, and when the stretching is applied
[0476]     Aspect 125.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device, further comprises a stretching device which is engaged with a
part of the stomach wall, including suturing or stapling the stretching device to the stomach
wall or invaginating the stretching device in the stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach
sutures, wherein the stretching device is further adapted to stretch a stomach wall portion
controlling force used for stretching the stomach wall portion, as well as the time periods the
stretching is applied, and when the stretching is applied.
[0477]     Aspect 126.       An apparatus for treating obesity according aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device, further comprises a stretching device comprising two parts
engaged with different parts of the stomach wall, one part each, wherein said engagement
includes suturing or stapling the parts to the stomach wall or invaginating the parts in the
stomach wall part, with stomach to stomach sutures, wherein the stretching device further
adapted to have different wall portions stretched independently from each other controlling
force used for stretching the stomach wall portion, as well as the time periods the stretching is
applied, and when the stretching is applied.
[0478]     Aspect 127.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device further comprising; an external control unit for controlling the
volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body.
[0479]     Aspect 128.       The device according to aspect 127, wherein the external control
unit comprising a wireless remote control adapted to control the device from the outside of the
patient's body.
[0480]     Aspect 129.       The device according to aspect 127, wherein the external control
unit comprising a subcutaneously placed switch or reservoir adapted to control the device from
the outside of the patient's body.
[0481]     Aspect 130.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
volume filling device, further comprising; comprising a sensor or sensing device adapted to be
implanted in the patient body, wherein the implantable control unit is adapted to control the

                                               - 86
device from the inside of the patient's body using information from said a sensor or sensing
device, adapted to sense, direct or indirect, the food intake of the patient.
[0482]     Aspect 131.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device is adapted to be at least substantially invaginated by a
stomach wall portion of the patient and having an outer surface that includes a biocompatible
material, and wherein the volume filling device is adapted to be placed inside the stomach with
the outer surface of the volume filling device resting against the inside of the stomach wall,
such that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume exceeding the volume of
the volume filling device having a maximum circumference of at least 30 millimeters.
[0483]     Aspect 132.       An apparatus according to aspect 131, wherein the volume filling
device is adapted to be placed inside the stomach with a gastroscope.
[0484]     Aspect 133.       An apparatus for treating obesity according to aspect 1, wherein the
assembled volume filling device is adapted to be at least substantially invaginated by a
stomach wall portion of the patient having an outer surface of a biocompatible material, and
wherein the volume filling device is adapted to be placed on the outside of the stomach wall
with the outer surface of the volume filling device resting against the outside of the stomach
wall, such that the volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially
exceeding the volume of the volume filling device, the volume filling device having a maximum
circumference of at least 30 millimeters.
[0485]     Aspect 134.       The apparatus according to aspect 1 comprising an adjustment
device for adjusting the size and/or shape of the volume filling device and at least one of it
segments.
[0486]     Aspect 135.       The apparatus according to aspect 134, wherein the size of the
volume filling device is hydraulically adjustable, and wherein the adjustment device comprises
a hydraulic fluid reservoir that, when implanted in the patient, is connected to at least to one of
the volume filling device segment, and wherein the size of the volume filling device is non
invasively regulated by moving hydraulic fluid from the reservoir to the at least to one of the
volume filling device segment, thereby adjusting at least one of the volume filling device
segment's size.

                                                 - 87
[0487]     Aspect 136.       The apparatus according to aspect 135, further comprising a
hydraulic regulation device comprising at least one chamber that, when implanted in the
patient, is invaginated in the patient's stomach wall with the volume filling device and
connected to the volume filling device, and wherein the amount of hydraulic fluid contained in
at least one of the volume filling device segments is non-invasively regulated by distributing
fluid between the hydraulic reservoir and the at least one chamber.
[0488]     Aspect 137.       The apparatus according to aspect 136, wherein the at least one
chamber is, when implanted in the patient, filled with the hydraulic fluid using a pump in the
reservoir so as to stretch the fundus wall to create satiety in the patient.
[0489]     Aspect 138.       The apparatus according to aspect 134, wherein the adjustment
device further comprises a reverse servo, comprising three adjustable reservoirs with hydraulic
fluid, wherein a small volume of fluid in a first reservoir placed subcutaneously, being part of a
first closed system including a second reservoir, is compressed with a high force per area unit
for moving a small volume of hydraulic fluid, and wherein the second reservoir affects a larger
volume of hydraulic fluid in a third reservoir, the third reservoir being part of a second closed
system having larger volume than said first reservoir, thereby creating a movement of a larger
total volume of hydraulic fluid with less force per area unit.
[0490]     Aspect 139.       The apparatus according to aspect 134, further comprising a
wireless remote control, wherein the volume filling device, when implanted in the patient, is
non-invasively regulated by the wireless remote control.
[0491]     Aspect 140.       The apparatus according to aspect 134, further comprising an
energy source that powers the adjustable volume filling device, when implanted in the patient.
[0492]     Aspect 141.       The apparatus according to aspect 140, wherein the energy source
comprises an internal energy source implantable in the patient.
[0493]     Aspect 142.       The apparatus according to aspect 140, wherein the energy source
comprises an external energy source transmitting wireless energy.
[0494]     Aspect 143.       The apparatus according to aspect 142, further comprising an
internal energy source implantable in the patient that is, when implanted in the patient,
chargeable by the wireless energy transmitted by the external energy source.

                                               - 88
[0495]     Aspect 144.        The apparatus according to aspect 139, wherein the wireless
remote control comprises at least one external signal transmitter and receiver, further
comprising an internal signal receiver and transmitter implantable in the patient for receiving
signals transmitted by the external signal transmitter and sending feedback signals back to the
remote control.
[0496]     Aspect 145.        The apparatus according to aspect 139, wherein the wireless
control signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic
field.
[0497]     Aspect 146.        The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, further comprising a
wireless energy transmitter for non-invasively energizing any part of the apparatus in need of
energy supplementation.
[0498]     Aspect 147.        The apparatus according to aspect 146, wherein the energy
transmitter transmits energy by at least one wireless energy signal.
[0499]     Aspect 148.        The apparatus according to aspect 147, wherein the wireless
energy comprises a wave signal or a field.
[0500]     Aspect 149.        The apparatus according to aspect 148, wherein the wave signal is
selected from the group consisting of: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an
electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra violet light
signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x-ray radiation signal
and a gamma radiation signal.
[0501]     Aspect 150.        The apparatus according to aspect 148, wherein the wireless
energy signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic
field.
[0502]     Aspect 151.        The apparatus according to aspect 148, further comprising an
implantable accumulator and an energy transforming device transforming wireless energy to
electric energy, wherein the electric energy is used at least partly to charge the accumulator.
[0503]     Aspect 152.        The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, further comprising a
sensor sensing a parameter.

                                                 - 89
[0504]      Aspect 153.       The apparatus according to aspect 152, wherein the parameter is a
functional parameter.
[0505]      Aspect 154.       The apparatus according to aspect 153, wherein the functional
parameter is correlated to a wireless transfer of energy for charging an internal energy source
implantable in the patient.
[0506]      Aspect 155.       The apparatus according to aspect 153 or 154, further comprising a
feedback device that, when implanted in the patient, sends feedback information from inside
the patient's body to the outside thereof, the feedback information being related to the
functional parameter.
[0507]      Aspect 156.       The apparatus according to aspect 153, further comprising an
implantable internal control unit for controlling the volume filling device in response to the
sensor sensing the functional parameter.
[0508]      Aspect 157.       The apparatus according to aspect 152, wherein the parameter is a
physical parameter of the patient.
[0509]      Aspect 158.       The apparatus according to aspect 157, wherein the sensor for
sensing the physical parameter is a pressure sensor.
[0510]      Aspect 159.       The apparatus according to aspect 157, wherein the sensor for
sensing the physical parameter is a motility sensor.
[0511]      Aspect 160.       The apparatus according to aspect 157, further comprising an
implantable internal control unit for controlling the volume filling device in response to the
sensor sensing the physical parameter.
[0512]      Aspect 161.       The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, further comprising an
operation device for operating the volume filling device in order to control its size and/or shape.
[0513]      Aspect 162.       The apparatus according to aspect 161, wherein the operation
device comprises a motor or a pump.
[0514]      Aspect 163.       The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, wherein the volume
filling device is adapted to further receive wireless energy, wherein the wireless energy is used

                                                    - 90
to power the operation device to create kinetic energy for the operation of the volume filling
device.
[0515]      Aspect 164.        The apparatus according to aspect 163, wherein the wireless
energy is used to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for the operation
of the volume filling device, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by the energy
transmission device.
[0516]      Aspect 165.        The apparatus according to aspect 163, wherein the wireless
energy, comprises a wave signal is selected from the group consisting of: a sound wave
signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a
visible light signal, an ultra violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio
wave signal, an x-ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal.
[0517]      Aspect 166.        The apparatus according to aspect 163, wherein the wireless
energy signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and magnetic
field.
[0518]      Aspect 167.        The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, further comprising
implantable electrical components including at least one voltage level guard.
[0519]      Aspect 168.        The apparatus according to aspect 1 or 134, further comprising
implantable electrical components including at least one constant current guard.
[0520]      Aspect 169.        The apparatus according to aspect 164, comprising an energy
transforming device for transforming the wireless energy to electric energy, wherein the electric
energy is used to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for the operation
of the volume filling device, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by the energy
transmission device.
[0521]      Aspect 170.        The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a circumference as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through
the body, and wherein the circumference constantly increases or remains constant when
moving along said axis from a first end point of said axis to a intermediate point with a
maximum, and the circumference constantly decreases or remains constant when moving from
said intermediate point to a second end point of said axis.

                                                - 91
[0522]      Aspect 171.      The apparatus according to aspect 1, wherein the assembled
volume filling device has a circumference as seen in a plane perpendicular to an axis through
the body, and wherein the circumference constantly increases or remains constant when
moving along said axis from a first end point of said axis to a first intermediate point with a first
maximum, the circumference constantly decreases or remains constant when moving from
said first intermediate point to a second intermediate point with a first minimum, the
circumference constantly increases or remains constant when moving along said axis from
said second intermediate point of said axis to a third intermediate point with a second
maximum, and the circumference constantly decreases or remains constant when moving from
said third intermediate point to a second end point of said axis.
[0523]      Aspect 172.      An apparatus according to aspect 20, wherein the first plane and
the second plane are substantially perpendicular.
[0524]      Aspect 173.      An apparatus according to aspect 172, wherein the second
assembly elements are mating elements with matching protrusions and recesses provided on
the volume filling device segments and the core part.
[0525]      Aspect 174.      An apparatus according to aspect 173, wherein the at least one
assembly element further comprises the protrusions and recesses.
[0526]      Aspect 175.      An apparatus according to aspect 174, wherein the at least one
assembly element comprises an assembly slit in the core part and an assembly flange in a
segment, and wherein a mating element comprises a protrusion in said slit and a recess in
said flange; or wherein the at least one assembly element comprises an assembly flange in the
core part and an assembly slit in a segment, and wherein the a mating element comprises a
protrusion in said slit and a recess in said flange.
[0527]      Aspect 176.      The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an inner surface layer of polyurethane, Teflon@, or polytetrafluoroethylene,
Parylene, silicone, metal, or a combination thereof.
[0528]      Aspect 177.      The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an inner surface layer of polytetrafluoroethylene and an outer layer of
silicone.

                                                - 92
[0529]     Aspect 178.       The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an inner surface layer of polytetra-fluoro-ethylene, an intermediate layer of
silicone, and an outer layer of Parylene.
[0530]     Aspect 179.       The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an inner surface layer of polyurethane and an outer layer of silicone.
[0531]     Aspect 180.       The apparatus according to aspect 99, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an inner surface layer of polyurethane, an intermediate layer of silicone, and
an outer layer of Parylene.
[0532]     Aspect 181.       The apparatus according to aspect 43, wherein the volume filling
device comprises an outer layer that includes a biocompatible material.
[0533]     This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
2009302908, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.

                                                - 93
Claims
1.         A method for treating obesity, in a patient having a stomach with a food cavity, by
implanting a volume filling device that, when implanted in a patient, reduces said food cavity in
size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of said volume filling device, the method
comprising the steps of:
               creating a pouch in the stomach wall, sealed from the stomach cavity, from the
outside of the stomach wall, wherein the pouch is created from the tissue of the stomach wall
and adapted for the volume filling device;
               placing the volume filling device on the outside of the stomach wall;
               completely enclosing the volume filling device by invaginating the volume filling
device in the pouch by providing stomach to stomach sutures or staples to the stomach wall
from the outside of the stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the
volume of the food cavity is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of
the volume filling device, and
               introducing a non-invasive regulation apparatus for non-invasively regulating the
volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body.
2.         A method according to claim 1, further comprising at least one of the steps of:
inserting a needle or a tube-like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body;
               using said needle or tube-like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas;
placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body;
               inserting a camera through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars into the
patient's abdomen,
               inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least two laparoscopic
trocars;
               dissecting an area of the stomach; and
               introducing the volume filling device into the abdominal cavity;
3.         A method according to any one of claims 1 and 2, further comprising affixing the
volume filling device to the stomach wall by providing sutures or staples reaching from the
volume filling device to the stomach wall.
4.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising affixing
the stomach wall to the lower part of the patient's esophagus by providing sutures or staples.

                                                - 94
5.          A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising affixing
the stomach wall to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles.
6.          A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising operating
said apparatus to non-invasively regulate the volume filling device.
7.          A method according to claim 6, wherein regulation of the volume filling device
includes changing the volume of a filling body of the volume filling device when implanted.
8.          A method according to claim 7, comprising providing an injection type syringe
comprising a fluid for injection into the implanted filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into
said filling body.
9.          A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pouch has a
volume of more than 15 ml.
10.         A method of treating obesity in a patient having a stomach with a food cavity by
implanting a volume filling device that, when implanted in a patient, reduces said food cavity in
size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device, the method
comprising the steps of:
               creating a hole in the stomach wall;
               introducing a volume filling device into the abdominal cavity;
               introducing the volume filling device through the hole and into the stomach;
               placing the volume filling device on the inside of the stomach wall;
               creating a pouch from tissue of the stomach wall, sealed from the stomach cavity,
on the outside of the stomach cavity for the device placed on the inside of the stomach wall,
and
               completely enclosing the volume filling device by invaginating the volume filling
device in the pouch by providing stomach to stomach sutures or staples from the outside of the
stomach wall, thereby positioning the volume filling device so that the volume of the food cavity
is reduced in size by a volume substantially exceeding the volume of the volume filling device.
11.         A method according to claim 10, further comprising at least one of the steps of:
inserting a needle or a tube-like instrument into the abdomen of the patient's body;
               using the needle or tube-like instrument to fill the patient's abdomen with gas;
               placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in the patient's body;

                                                 - 95
                inserting a camera through one of said at least two laparoscopic trocars into the
patient's abdomen;
                inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least two laparoscopic
trocars; and
                dissecting an area of the stomach.
12.         A method according to any one of claims 10 and 11, further comprising affixing the
volume filling device to the stomach wall by providing sutures or staples reaching from the
volume filling device to the stomach wall.
13.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 12, further comprising affixing the
stomach wall to the lower part of the patient's esophagus by providing sutures or staples.
14.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 13, further comprising affixing the
stomach wall to the patient's diaphragm muscle or associated muscles.
15.         A method according to any one of claims 10- 114, further comprising providing an
apparatus for regulating the volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body.
16.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 15, wherein regulation of the volume
filling device includes changing the volume of a filling body of the volume filling device when
implanted.
17.         A method according to claim 16, comprising providing an injection type syringe
comprising a fluid for injection into the implanted filling body; and injecting volume of fluid into
filling body.
18.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 17, further comprising the step of
operating said apparatus to regulate the volume filling device.
19.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 18, wherein the step of providing an
apparatus for regulating the volume filling device from the outside of the patient's body,
comprises providing a non-invasive regulation apparatus for non-invasively regulating the
volume filling device.
20.         A method according to any one of claims 10 - 19, further comprising the step of
      operating said apparatus to non-invasively regulate the volume filling device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
