The Intact Security Pty Ltd system ("system") is modular and addresses each of the security domains
contained within the ISM. The content for each module include video content which describes the
concepts and provides examples. Text including templated documents are also included as part of this
delivery mechanism. Users are granted access to modules, and are required to contextualise the
content to reflect their experience and environment, before submitting documentation in support of
assessment. The system allows for continuous review and audit of supplied documents whilst
maintaining objectivity for assessment. Training users who are not information security experts in
what the concept is, and then providing guidance on how to develop documentation to suit their
business whilst addressing ISM requirements.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

Description
Title
The Intact Security Pty Ltd Online Learning System ("system") for the delivery of specific information
security instruction regarding the preparation for an IRAP security assessment.
Background
[0001] The present invention relates to the delivery of specific information security instructions for
participants to meet the minimum requirements and prepare for an IRAP security assessment. In
addition, the delivery of templated documents and corresponding video material assist participants in
defining and developing appropriate documentation to meet these minimum requirements.
[0002] Participants face challenges in developing and understating the requirements where they do not
have information security expertise or resourcing. Through the delivery of this invention participants are
able to grasp concepts and requirements as they relate to their organization and develop appropriate
documentation and ultimately implement sufficient information security controls to meet an IRAP
security assessment.
[0003] Success has been achieved through participants obtaining a greater understanding of the
requirements, and formulating and developing documentation to meet the requirements, whilst then
also applying these for implementation.
[0004] Participants who have used the system have found it invaluable in defining their scope,
documentation suite and extend of implementation.
Summarv
[0005] The online learning system allow participants to understand the concepts of information security
as it relates to the ISM and PSPF, and then contextualise this in relation to their environment and
system.
[0006] Participant have found that without a dedicated information security specialist or resource, that
preparing for an assessment is both daunting, time consuming and costly.
[0007] the online learning system for the specific delivery of information security has allowed
participants to grasp the concepts of information security in lay terms, so that staff can then correctly
prepare for an IRAP security assessment through the development of documentation and
implementation of appropriate security controls.
[0008] The advantages of participants utilizing this system, enables them to understand the
requirements, contextualise these as they relate to their system, and document them in the correct
manor required to meet the necessary provisions for an IRAP security assessment.
[0009] Participants who utilise the system are not restricted to size. The online learning system allows
application to both large or small organisations.
Description of Embodiments

[0010] The Online Learning System for the delivery of specific information security, provides
documented examples of; Information Security Policy, Security Risk Management Plan, Incident
Response Plan, System Security Plan, Change Management Policy, Network Security Policy, Key
Management Plan, Information Classification and Handling Policy, Vulnerability and Patch Management
Plan, Physical Security Standards, Clear Desk/Clear Screen Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Access Control
Policy, Audit Logging and Monitoring, Business Continuity Management, Disaster Recovery Plan, Backup
and Restore Policy, Security Awareness Program and Standard Operating Environment.
[0011] The systemis modular and addresses each of the security domains contained within the ISM. The
content for each module include video content which describes the concepts and provides examples.
[0012] Text including templated documents are also included as part of this delivery mechanism. Users
are granted access to modules, and are required to contextualise the content to reflect their experience
and environment, before submitting documentation in support of assessment.
[0013] The system allows for continuous review and audit of supplied documents whilst maintaining
objectivity for assessment.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Patent Claim
Online Learning System for the delivery of specific information security instruction regarding the
preparation for an IRAP security assessment.
Claim Statement
Intact Security Pty Ltd have created an online learning system which is designed to instruct organisations
on how to create policy and procedure documentation to prepare for and meet the control statements
contained within the Australian Signals Directorate Information Security Manual (ISM)
Intact Security Pty Ltd is seeking patent protection on the content and delivery mechanism for the
aforementioned learning system. Intact Security Pty Ltd is seeking patent protection for the content
delivery and content contained within the learning management system not the learning management
system platform itself. The learning management system is understood to already have an established
inventiveness.
Technical Features/Inventive Concept
The Intact Security Pty Ltd system ("system") is modular and addresses each of the security domains
contained within the ISM. The content for each module include video content which describes the
concepts and provides examples. Text including templated documents are also included as part of this
delivery mechanism. Users are granted access to modules, and are required to contextualise the content
to reflect their experience and environment, before submitting documentation in support of
assessment.
The system allows for continuous review and audit of supplied documents whilst maintaining objectivity
for assessment. Training users who are not information security experts in what the concept is, and then
providing guidance on how to develop documentation to suit their business whilst addressing ISM
requirements.

