   ABSTRACT
   An animal identification ear tag includes a male pin and a female portion that
   receives the male pin on application of the tag to an animal's ear. The tag includes
 5 a single piece moulded panel which extends from a first end at the base of the male
   pin to a second end where the female portion is arranged. The tag may thus form a
   closed loop after application to an animal's ear. The female portion includes an
   opening configured to receive an end of the male pin including a locking shoulder,
   and a plurality of locking projections positioned around the periphery of the opening
10 and extending towards the centre of the opening, the locking projections being
   configured to cooperate with the locking shoulder to lock the male pin to the female
   portion after application of the tag to an animal's ear.
                                               22

      1/8
      enN
          CON
      coo
              000
                  c.
r-                    L
   LO                LL

                               ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION TAG
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The invention relates to animal identification tags.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   Ear tags are used for identification of animals. Existing ear tags are usually formed
10 of plastic and include an identifier such as a number, barcode or electronic ID
   device.    Tags include male components with a punch that is forced through the
   animal's ear by an applicator tool. The tool brings the male punch into alignment
   with an opening in a female component. The male punch locks into place in the
   female component, such that the tag is securely coupled to the animal's ear.
15
   Known ear tags include the Applicant's "Flexitag" range, which includes a male pin
   and a single piece panel extending from a first end of the male pin. The other end
   of the panel includes an opening that receives the other end of the male pin to form
   a closed loop after application. This is a simple and cost-effective tag. The tag
20 does not include any electronic component.        The Applicant has devised further
   improvements in construction of the tag attachment mechanism and provision of
   electronic identification capability.
   W091/10982 and W095/04455 disclose tags including a similar male pin and
25 single panel configuration, forming a closed loop after application. In each case an
   electronic tag component may be located within the male pin.      The structure of the
   male pin and the female opening is complex and expensive to manufacture.
   Further, the tag structure does not adequately protect the electronic components
   from damage.
30
   It would be desirable to provide an improved animal ear tag or at least to provide
   the public with a useful choice.
                                               1

   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   In a first aspect the invention provides an animal identification ear tag including:
 5 a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an animal's ear
   and a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end; and
   a single piece moulded panel including:
            a first portion formed integrally with the male pin or configured to couple to
            the first end of the male pin;
10          a female portion including:
                      an opening configured to receive the second end of the male pin
                      including the locking shoulder, and
                      a plurality of locking projections positioned around the periphery of
                      the opening and extending towards the centre of the opening, the
15                    locking projections being configured to cooperate with the locking
                      shoulder to lock the male pin to the female portion after application
                      of the tag to an animal's ear; and
            a panel body extending from the first portion to the female portion.
20 Preferably the first portion of the moulded panel has a thickness greater than a
   thickness of the panel body.
   Preferably the male pin has a section that is generally frustoconical in cross-section
   and extends from its widest point at or near the first end of the male pin to its
25 narrowest point along the length of the male pin, thereby providing increased
   rigidity at the first end of the male pin.
   Preferably the ear tag includes a blind bore in the male pin and an electronic tag
   component arranged in the blind bore. Preferably the blind bore is open at the first
30 end of the male pin. Preferably the electronic tag component is an HDX RFID tag
   component.
                                                  2

   Preferably the electronic tag component is an encapsulated tag component.
   Preferably the electronic tag component includes an elongate antenna that resides
   at least partly within the thickness of the first portion of the moulded panel.
 5
   Preferably the ear tag includes a blind bore in the male pin and an electronic tag
   component arranged in the blind bore, the electronic tag component including an
   elongate antenna that resides at least partly within the frustoconical section.
10 Preferably the electronic tag component is smaller than the blind bore, such that
   the electronic tag component has freedom of movement within the blind bore.
   Preferably the ear tag further includes a fluid, grease or foam filling a space
   between the electronic tag component and the wall of the blind bore.
15 Alternatively, the electronic tag component may be contained within a capsule
   received in the blind bore, such that the electronic tag component has freedom of
   movement within the capsule.         Preferably the ear tag further includes a fluid,
   grease or foam filling a space between the electronic tag component and the
   internal wall of the capsule.
20
   Preferably the ear tag is configured to form a closed loop after application to an
   animal's ear.
   Preferably the locking projections form a generally conical arrangement around the
25 opening.
   Preferably the ear tag includes a plurality of slots separating the locking projections.
   Preferably the ear tag includes between 3 and 8 locking projections.
30
   Preferably the male pin has an asymmetric cross-section.
                                                3

   Preferably the male pin has a generally oval cross-section with the long axis of the
   oval substantially parallel to a line from the male pin to the female portion.
   In a second aspect the invention provides an animal identification ear tag including:
 5 a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an animal's ear,
   a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end and a blind bore open at the
   first end and extending part way along the length of the male pin;
   an elongate electronic tag component arranged within the blind bore, with its
   antenna element extending towards the first end; and
10 a single piece moulded panel including:
            a panel body extending from the first portion and having a first thickness;
            a thickened portion including an opening configured to couple to the first
            end of the male pin in a push-fit arrangement, the thickened portion having
            a thickness greater than the first thickness, at least part of an antenna of the
15          electronic tag component residing in the thickness of the thickened portion;
            and
            female portion including an opening configured to receive the second end of
            the male pin including the locking shoulder.
20 Preferably the thickened portion extends to both sides of the panel body.
   Preferably the electronic tag component is smaller than the blind bore, such that
   the electronic tag component has freedom of movement within the blind bore.
   Preferably the ear tag further includes a fluid, grease or foam filling a space
25 between the electronic tag component and the wall of the blind bore.
   Alternatively, the electronic tag component may be contained within a capsule
   received in the blind bore, such that the electronic tag component has freedom of
   movement within the capsule.          Preferably the ear tag further includes a fluid,
30 grease or foam filling a space between the electronic tag component and the
   internal wall of the capsule.
                                                4

   In a third aspect the invention provides an animal identification ear tag including:
   a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an animal's ear
   and a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end; and
   a single piece moulded panel including:
 5     a first portion configured to couple to the first end of the male pin and allowing
       free rotation of the moulded panel around the male pin;
       a female portion including:
                             an opening configured to receive the second end of the male
                             pin including the locking shoulder, and
10     a panel body extending from the first portion to the female portion.
   In a further aspect the invention provides an animal identification ear tag including:
   a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an animal's ear,
   a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end; a cavity in the male pin;
15 an electronic tag component within the cavity, the cavity containing a material, and
   the material configured to cushion the electronic tag component to minimise impact
   or shock damage; and
   a single piece moulded panel including:
                        a first portion formed integrally with the male pin or configured to
20                      couple to the first end of the male pin;
                        a female portion including:
                             an opening configured to receive the second end of the male
                             pin including the locking shoulder; and
                        a panel body extending from the first portion to the female
25                      portion.
   Preferably the electronic tag component is suspended within the material.
   Preferably the material is a viscous substance.
30
   Preferably the material is foam or foam like material.
                                                 5

   Preferably the material is a substance which allows some movement of the
   electronic tag component.
   Preferably the electronic tag component is an RFID tag component.
 5
   Preferably the electronic tag component is an encapsulated tag component.
   Preferably the electronic tag component is an unencapsulated tag component.
10 Preferably the material is a gel.
   Preferably the electronic tag component includes an elongate antenna that resides
   at least partly within the first portion of the moulded panel.
15 Preferably the electronic tag component is substantially smaller than the cavity.
   Preferably the material is a gel, fluid, grease or foam filling a space between the
   electronic tag component and the wall of the cavity.
20 Preferably the electronic tag component is contained within a capsule received in
   the cavity.
   Preferably the material is a gel, fluid, grease or foam filling a space between the
   electronic tag component and the internal wall of the capsule.
25
   Preferably the ear tag is configured to form a closed loop after application to an
   animal's ear.
   Preferably the ear tag comprises a plug or cap formed as part of the male pin or the
30 single piece moulded panel.
                                                  6

   Preferably the plug or cap seals the cavity to substantially prevent ingress of
   moisture or other contaminants.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention will now be described by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
10 Figure 1       is a first perspective view of a tag according to one embodiment;
   Figure 2       is a second perspective view of the tag of Figure 1;
   Figure 2A      shows the female component of the tag of Figure 1 in greater detail;
   Figure 3       is a side view of the tag of Figure 1;
   Figure 4       is a front view of the tag of Figure 1;
15 Figure 5       is a cross-section along the line 5'-5' shown in Figure 4;
   Figure 6       shows the tag of Figure 1 after application;
   Figure 6A      is a cross-section along the line 6A-6A shown in Figure 6;
   Figure 7       is a cross-section through a tag according to a second embodiment;
   Figure 8       is a cross-section through the tag of Figure 7, after application;
20 Figure 9       is a cross-section through a male pin according to a further
   embodiment;
   Figure 10      is a first perspective view of a tag according to a further
   embodiment;
   Figure 11      is a second perspective view of the tag of Figure 10;
25 Figure 12      is a perspective view of the male pin of the tag of Figure 10;
   Figure 13      is a second perspective view of the male pin of the tag of Figure 10;
   Figure 14      is a side view of the male pin of the tag of Figure 10;
   Figure 15      is a second side view of the male pin of the tag of Figure 10; and
   Figure 16      is a cross-section through a tag according to a further embodiment.
30
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                                               7

   Figures 1 and 2 show an animal identification tag 1. The tag 1 includes a male pin
   or punch 2 and a panel 3. The panel 3 is formed as a single moulded piece. The
   panel 3 includes a panel portion 4 and a female portion 5, which includes an
   opening 6. The panel 3 also includes a number of recesses 8, which provide a
 5 local weakening, helping the panel 3 to bend during application, as will become
   apparent below. Similarly the recess 9 may help bending of the tag near the male
   pin 2, assisting in application of the tag using an applicator, such as the Flexitag
   applicators available from Allflex.
10 As shown in Figures 1 and 2, and in further detail in Figure 2A, the opening 6 is
   surrounded by a locking flange 10 formed by a number of fingers or projections 11,
   which project inwards at an angle towards the centre of the opening 6. The fingers
   11 therefore form a generally conical arrangement or flange 10, with slots or
   spaces 12 between the fingers 11.        The locking flange and its fingers are also
15 formed integrally as part of the panel 3, in a single moulded piece.               In the
   embodiment shown there are five fingers 11, but any suitable number of fingers
   may be used. Preferably between 3 and 8 fingers are used.
   The male pin 2 has a shaft 15, a base portion 16 (see Figure 5) and a distal tip
20 portion 17. The base portion 16 is shaped to couple with an opening in the panel 3,
   preferably by a push-fit although other couplings may be used. As shown in Figure
   5, the base portion 16 includes a base flange 18, and a locking projection 19
   defining a groove 20 running around the circumference of the male pin 2. A lip 21
   on the panel 3 locks into this groove 20 when the male pin is fully inserted into the
25 panel 3. The male pin 2 and the panel 3 may therefore be formed as separate
   components before assembly into the complete tag 1. However, the invention
   encompasses tags formed by overmoulding or integral forming of the male pin 2
   and panel 3.
30 As shown in Figure 5, the first portion 23 of the panel 3, i.e. that portion surrounding
   the base of the male pin 2, may be formed as a thicker region than the main part of
   the panel 3. This thicker region provides improved rigidity at the mounting of the
                                              8

   male pin 2 to the panel 3, and may provide improved rigidity to that part of the male
   pin that resides within the thickness of the panel 3. This increased rigidity improves
   the performance of the tag, in particular the application of the tag using a plier or
   automatic applicator.     In some embodiments this region may be 5 to 10mm in
 5 thickness, preferably around 6-8mm in thickness. In contrast, the thinner sections
   of the panel 3 may be around 1 to 3 mm, preferably 1 to 2 mm, ideally around 1.25
   to 1.45 mm thick.
   The distal or tip portion 17 of the male punch may be formed with a sharp tip with a
10 number of sharp ridges 24 (see Figure 1) in order better to penetrate the tissue of
   an animal's ear during application.
   The tip portion 17 has a generally conical section 25 leading to a locking shoulder
   26. The locking shoulder 26 cooperates with the locking flange 10 on application of
15 the tag 1 to an animal. An applicator receives the tag 1 in a generally U-shape and
   drives the male pin through the animal's ear.        The conical section 25 passes
   through the animal's ear and then into the opening 6, forcing the locking fingers 11
   to bend slightly, allowing the locking shoulder 26 to pass beyond the locking fingers
   11. The locking fingers then return to their natural position, snapping inwards and
20 acting against the locking shoulder 26 as shown in Figure 6. The male pin cannot
   be retracted from the opening because of the locking of the male pin 2 into the
   opening 6. The tag then forms the closed U-shape as shown in Figure 6.
   Figure 5 also shows the position of an electronic tag component 30. The electronic
25 component 30 sits in a blind bore 31 (i.e. a bore open at only one end) formed in
   the male pin 2. The blind bore may be open at the base of the male pin 2, and may
   be sealed after insertion of the electronic tag component using any suitable sealant
   or plug. The electronic component 30 may be of any desired construction and may
   or may not be encapsulated in glass or other suitable encapsulation material.        In
30 one embodiment the electronic component may include an ID element 32 with an
   elongate antenna 33 consisting of a conductive wire wound around a core (e.g.
   copper wire wound around a ferrite core).      The electronic tag component may be
                                               9

   an HDX (half-duplex) RFID (Radiofrequency identification) tag, but other types of
   electronic tag component may be used.
   Figure 6 shows the ear tag in a closed configuration. During application, the male
 5 pin 2 penetrates the animal's ear before entering the female portion of the panel 3,
   the tag forming a closed loop after application. Figure 6A is a cross-section along
   the line 6A-6A in Figure 6. Figure 6A shows the locking projections of the conical
   flange 10 acting against the locking shoulder 26 to lock the male and female
   components together.
10
   Figure 7 shows a further embodiment, in which the first portion 23 of the panel is
   formed with still greater thickness. In this tag the male pin has the same length
   from the opening of the blind bore 31 to the tip. However, the distance from the tip
   to the plane of the panel 3 is less than in the tag of Figures 1 to 6A. This alters the
15 position of the electronic tag component with respect to the panel 3. The first
   portion 23 is significantly thickened on both sides of the panel 3. This provides
   further support to the male pin 2.     Furthermore, a larger section of the antenna
   portion of the electronic tag component resides within the thickness of the first
   portion 23.
20
   Figure 8 shows the ear tag of Figure 7 in a closed configuration.
   Figure 9 shows a further embodiment of male pin 2, which may be used with a
   panel 3 such as those described above. In this embodiment a frustoconical section
25 35 extends from the base end of the male pin to a point part way along the male pin
   2. This frustoconical section may be formed integrally in a single moulding with the
   male pin 2 and provides improved rigidity, particularly in the region of the electronic
   tag component antenna, which resides at least partly within the frustoconical
   section.
30
   In any embodiment disclosed herein, the panel 3 may be made from polyamide or
   any other suitable plastic material with some flexibility but sufficient rigidity to form
                                              10

   the locking projections 11.    The male pin 2 may be made from a hard plastic
   material in order to pierce the animal's ear and protect the electronic tag
   component.
 5 The arrangement of the locking projections 11 provides a strong, rigid locking
   mechanism. However, this arrangement also requires more force to be applied in
   order to engage the male and female components during application of the tag than
   is the case for tags with a simple resilient female opening. These greater forces
   may create undesirable bending of the male component during application, which
10 may lead to damage to the male pin, or to the electronic tag component housed
   within the male pin.     Electronic tag components employing ferrite cores have
   somewhat fragile antenna sections, particularly when unencapsulated, and such
   bending of the male pin may damage the antenna, leaving the tag useless.           In
   order to address this problem, the rigidity of the male pin may be improved, or the
15 male pin may be supported, e.g. as described above.            Increasing the overall
   diameter of the male pin is generally undesirable.        However, the frustoconical
   section 35 (see Figure 9) and/or supporting thickness in the region 23 (see Figure
   5) may be used to improve rigidity in the male tag, particularly the base section of
   the male pin where the antenna portion of the electronic tag component resides.
20
   Figures 10 to 15 illustrate a further embodiment of tag 1. In this embodiment the
   male pin 2 has an asymmetric cross-section, as will be described below. The
   electronic tag component may be contained within the hollow male pin, as
   described above.    The panel 3 and other features of the tag are otherwise as
25 described above.
   The asymmetric cross-section can be seen in Figures 10 to 13, but is most
   apparent by comparison of the two side views in Figures 14 and 15. The width W of
   the male pin 2 in the view of Figure 15 is greater than the width W' in Figure 14. In
30 this embodiment the cross-section is preferably generally elliptical or oval.
                                             11

   As shown in Figure 10, the male pin is preferably arranged in the panel 3 such that
   the longer axis of its cross-section is parallel to the length of the panel 3, or more
   generally the long axis of the oval is substantially parallel to a line from the male pin
   to the female portion of the panel. This can be achieved reliably by forming the
 5 base of the male pin and the cooperating opening and portion 21 of the panel 3
   with cooperating asymmetric formations to position the male pin correctly. This
   positioning means that the longer axis is positioned to resist the bending forces
   created during application of the tag.     Less strength is required perpendicular to
   that axis, as the lateral bending forces are less.
10
   Figures 16 shows a further embodiment of the invention.              This embodiment is
   similar to that of Figures 7 and 8, except for the following points.
   In Figure 16, the electronic tag component 30 is positioned within a blind bore 31.
15 In this embodiment the electronic tag component 30 has a size that is significantly
   smaller than the bore 31. This results in a space 31' surrounding the electronic tag
   component 30. This can be contrasted with Figure 7, where the electronic tag
   component fits relatively closely within the bore.
20 The electronic tag component 30 may simply float within an air space 31' within the
   bore 31.    However, in preferred embodiments the space 31' may be filled with a
   fluid, viscous substance (such as a grease or gel), a foam material or the like.
   Preferably the substance allows some movement of the electronic tag component
   30. Optionally the space 31' may be sealed by a plug or cap 38. The plug or cap
25 38 may be secured to the male pin by any suitable attachment means, including but
   not restricted to; laser welding, hot melt welding, gluing or by some other
   mechanical means.       The plug or cap may be a plastic component that may be
   formed separately or optionally may be formed as part of the male pin or panel
   moulding, Alternatively, the plug or cap may be a resin or similar cap formed in situ.
30
   The plug or cap closes the bore 31. Further, the plug or cap 31 may seal the bore
   to prevent ingress of moisture or other contaminants.
                                              12

   This arrangement provides some freedom of movement of the electronic tag
   component and helps to cushion the electronic tag component after application of
   the tag. This will help to prevent damage to the electronic tag component caused
 5 by impact or shock stresses. Further, this arrangement limits the bending forces
   applied to the electronic tag component during application of the tag, because the
   male pin must bend through a greater angle in order to transmit that bending force
   to the electronic tag component.
10 In conventional tags, the RFID transponder is generally encapsulated in glass or a
   similar material. Inside this is a resin that holds the transponder in a fixed position.
   The encapsulated transponder is a single, rigid component.
   In a further alternative, the electronic tag component may be loosely enclosed in a
15 capsule (formed from e.g. plastic, glass or the like), which may be filled with a fluid,
   viscous substance (such as a grease or gel), a foam material or the like. In this
   embodiment the capsule forms a close fit to the bore 31 (as in e.g. Figure 7), but
   the electronic tag component has some freedom of movement within the capsule.
   This provides similar benefits to those of the embodiment of Figure 16.
20
   Either of these arrangements of the electronic tag component within the male pin
   may be used with any of the other embodiments described herein.
   In any of the embodiments described above, except the asymmetric pin
25 embodiment of Figures 10-15, the panel may be free to rotate with respect to the
   male pin.    This may help to prevent damage to the tag or the animal's ear, for
   example if the panel catches on a branch or the like.
   The Applicant's tag may be particularly suited to identification of sheep, but may
30 also be used for identification of other animals.
                                               13

   While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of the
   embodiments thereof, and while the embodiments have been described in detail, it
   is not the intention of the Applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the
   appended claims to such detail.        Additional advantages and modifications will
 5 readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore, the invention in its broader
   aspects is not limited to the specific details, representative apparatus and methods,
   and illustrative examples shown and described.        Accordingly, departures may be
   made from such details without departure from the spirit or scope of the Applicant's
   general inventive concept.
10
                                              14

   CLAIMS
   1. An animal identification ear tag including:
          i.  a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an
 5            animal's ear and a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end;
              and
          ii. a single piece moulded panel including:
                  a. a first portion formed integrally with the male pin or configured to
                      couple to the first end of the male pin;
10                b. a female portion including:
                          an opening configured to receive the second end of the male
                          pin including the locking shoulder, and
                          a plurality of locking projections positioned around the
                          periphery of the opening and extending towards the centre of
15                        the opening, the locking projections being configured to
                          cooperate with the locking shoulder to lock the male pin to
                          the female portion after application of the tag to an animal's
                          ear; and
                  c. a panel body extending from the first portion to the female
20                    portion.
   2. An ear tag as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first portion of the moulded panel
      has a thickness greater than a thickness of the panel body.
25 3. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the male pin has a
      section that is generally frustoconical in cross-section and extends from its
      widest point at or near the first end of the male pin to its narrowest point along
      the length of the male pin, thereby providing increased rigidity at the first end of
      the male pin.
30
   4. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim including a blind bore in the male
      pin and an electronic tag component arranged in the blind bore.
                                              15

   5. An ear tag as claimed in claim 4 wherein the blind bore is open at the first end
       of the male pin.
 5 6. An ear tag as claimed in claim 4 or 5 wherein the electronic tag component is
       an HDX RFID tag component.
   7. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein the electronic tag
       component is an encapsulated tag component.
10
   8. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the electronic tag
       component includes an elongate antenna that resides at least partly within the
       thickness of the first portion of the moulded panel.
15 9. An ear tag as claimed in claim 3 including a blind bore in the male pin and an
       electronic tag component arranged in the blind bore, the electronic tag
       component including an elongate antenna that resides at least partly within the
       frustoconical section.
20 10. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein the electronic tag
       component is smaller than the blind bore, such that the electronic tag
       component has freedom of movement within the blind bore.
   11. An ear tag as claimed in claim 10, further including a fluid, grease or foam filling
25     a space between the electronic tag component and the wall of the blind bore.
   12. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein the electronic tag
       component is contained within a capsule received in the blind bore, such that
       the electronic tag component has freedom of movement within the capsule.
30
                                               16

   13. An ear tag as claimed in claim 12, further including a fluid, grease or foam filling
       a space between the electronic tag component and the internal wall of the
       capsule.
 5 14. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim, configured to form a closed loop
       after application to an animal's ear.
   15. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the locking projections
       form a generally conical arrangement around the opening.
10
   16. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim including a plurality of slots
       separating the locking projections.
   17. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim, including between 3 and 8
15     locking projections.
   18. An ear tag as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the male pin has an
       asymmetric cross-section.
20 19. An ear tag as claimed in claim 14 wherein the male pin has a generally oval
       cross-section with the long axis of the oval substantially parallel to a line from
       the male pin to the female portion.
   20. An animal identification ear tag including:
25         i.   a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an
                animal's ear, a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end and
                a blind bore open at the first end and extending part way along the
                length of the male pin;
           ii. an elongate electronic tag component arranged within the blind bore,
30              with its antenna element extending towards the first end; and
           iii. a single piece moulded panel including:
                                              17

                   a. a panel body extending from the first portion and having a first
                      thickness;
                   b. a thickened portion including an opening configured to couple to
                      the first end of the male pin in a push-fit arrangement, the
 5                    thickened portion having a thickness greater than the first
                      thickness, at least part of an antenna of the electronic tag
                      component residing in the thickness of the thickened portion;
                      and
                   c. female portion including an opening configured to receive the
10                    second end of the male pin including the locking shoulder.
   21. An ear tag as claimed in claim 20 wherein the thickened portion extends to both
       sides of the panel body.
15 22. An ear tag as claimed in claim 20 or 21, wherein the electronic tag component
       is smaller than the blind bore, such that the electronic tag component has
       freedom of movement within the blind bore.
   23. An ear tag as claimed in claim 22, further including a fluid, grease or foam filling
20     a space between the electronic tag component and the wall of the blind bore.
   24. An ear tag as claimed in claim 20 or 21, wherein the electronic tag component
       is contained within a capsule received in the blind bore, such that the electronic
       tag component has freedom of movement within the capsule.
25
   25. An ear tag as claimed in claim 24, further including a fluid, grease or foam filling
       a space between the electronic tag component and the internal wall of the
       capsule.
                                             18

   26. An animal identification ear tag including:
          i.   a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an
               animal's ear and a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end;
 5             and
          ii. a single piece moulded panel including:
                   a. a first portion configured to couple to the first end of the male pin
                       and allowing free rotation of the moulded panel around the male
                       pin;
10                 b. a female portion including:
                            an opening configured to receive the second end of the male
                            pin including the locking shoulder, and
                   c. a panel body extending from the first portion to the female
                       portion.
15
   27. An animal identification ear tag including:
          i.   a male pin having a first end, a second end configured to penetrate an
               animal's ear, a locking shoulder positioned adjacent the second end; a
               cavity in the male pin;
20        ii. an electronic tag component within the cavity, the cavity containing a
               material, and the material configured to cushion the electronic tag
               component to minimise impact or shock damage; and
          iii. a single piece moulded panel including:
                   a. a first portion formed integrally with the male pin or configured to
25                     couple to the first end of the male pin;
                   b. a female portion including:
                            an opening configured to receive the second end of the male
                            pin including the locking shoulder; and
                   c. a panel body extending from the first portion to the female
30                     portion.
                                                19

   28. An ear tag as claimed in claim 27 wherein the electronic tag component is
       suspended within the material.
   29. An ear tag as claimed in claim 27 wherein the material is a viscous substance.
 5
   30. An ear tag as claimed in claim 27 wherein the material is foam or foam like
       material.
   31. An ear tag as claimed in claim 27 wherein the material is a substance which
10     allows some movement of the electronic tag component.
   32. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 31 wherein the electronic tag
       component is an RFID tag component.
15 33. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 32 wherein the electronic tag
       component is an encapsulated tag component.
   34. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 32 wherein the electronic tag
       component is an unencapsulated tag component.
20
   35. An ear tag as claimed in claim 27 wherein the material is a gel.
   36. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 35, wherein the electronic tag
       component includes an elongate antenna that resides at least partly within the
25     first portion of the moulded panel.
   37. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 36, wherein the electronic tag
       component is substantially smaller than the cavity.
30 38. An ear tag as claimed in claim 37, wherein the material is a gel, fluid, grease or
       foam filling a space between the electronic tag component and the wall of the
       cavity.
                                            20

   39. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 37, wherein the electronic tag
       component is contained within a capsule received in the cavity.
 5 40. An ear tag as claimed in claim 39, wherein the material is a gel, fluid, grease or
       foam filling a space between the electronic tag component and the internal wall
       of the capsule.
   41. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 40 configured to form a closed
10     loop after application to an animal's ear.
   42. An ear tag as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 41, further comprising a plug
       or cap formed as part of the male pin or the single piece moulded panel.
15 43. An ear tag as claimed in claim 42, wherein the plug or cap seals the cavity to
       substantially prevent ingress of moisture or other contaminants.
                                              21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
