Il:\kmh\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\KMI 1\6053740 ldocx-23
                                                   11l2017
                                                           ABSTRACT
                A method and apparatus for performing ophthalmic laser surgery using a pulsed
laser beam is provided. The method includes establishing an initial cutting pattern
comprising a plurality of original photodisruption points, establishing an enhanced cutting
pattern comprising a plurality of enhanced photodisruption points selected to decrease
potential adverse effects due to patient movement and having increased density over a
fixed area as compared with the plurality of original photodisruption points, and
performing an ocular surgical procedure according to the enhanced cutting pattern.
Enhanced cutting patterns may include circular cuts around the periphery of a capsule,
vertical side cuts for lens fragmentation, raster lamellar cuts, and grid lamellar cuts. Each
photodisruption point in the initial cutting pattern and the enhanced cutting pattern
comprises a laser target point.
FIGS. 5A and 5B

        5/7
FIG. 5A     FIG. 5B

     ROBUST LASER CUTTING METHODS FOR OPHTHALMIC SURGERY
                 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
              This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional
 Application No. 61/753,319, filed January 16, 2013, the entire content of which is
 incorporated herein by reference.
                                            BACKGROUND
         I.       Field
 [0001]       This invention generally relates to the field of ophthalmic surgery, and more
 particularly to particular cutting techniques and methods used during ophthalmic laser
 surgery, including cataract and refractive surgeries.
         II.      Background
 [0002]       Vision impairments such as myopia (i.e. near-sightedness), hyperopia (i.e.
 far-sightedness), and astigmatism can be corrected using eyeglasses or contact lenses.
 Alternatively, ophthalmic surgery can be used to address these same problems. Eye
 surgery is also commonly used to treat conditions such as cataracts, which, if left
 untreated, may cause blurred vision and/or blindness.
 [0003]       Laser surgery is becoming a preferred technique for ophthalmic procedures
 as a laser is generally more precise and accurate when compared to manual surgical
 tools. In laser refractive surgery, such as the commonly known LASIK (Laser Assisted
 in Situ Keratomileusis) procedure, a surgeon uses a laser to reshape the cornea. The
 LASIK procedure has three steps, namely: (1) preparation of a corneal flap; (2) ablation
 of the corneal stroma with an excimer laser; and (3) repositioning the flap.
[0004]        Previously, a microkeratome was used for corneal flap cutting and
 preparation, but these days, it is more common to use a non-ultraviolet (UV) laser that
 emits radiation with ultra-short pulse durations in the femtosecond or picosecond range.

Besides cutting corneal flaps, pulsed lasers are also useful for making incisions in the
corneal stroma to correct astigmatism. Ophthalmic lasers provide improvements over
microkeratomes as more patients achieve an improved level of post-operative visual
acuity in the months after surgery. Further, laser surgery tends to lessen the chance of
irregular, imprecise, and inaccurate cuts and related complications.
[0005]      Non-ultraviolet, ultra-short pulsed lasers are also being used for cataract
surgery, including capsulotomy procedures. During cataract surgery, a pulsed laser
beam may be used to create an initial incision in the cornea, to create openings in the
anterior or posterior capsular bag for capsulotomy, as well as to crack or break-up the
clouded cataractic lens. For example, a pulsed laser beam can be used to create an
opening in the anterior capsule for an anterior capsulotomy procedure to allow access to
the cataractic lens. Sometimes, a posterior capsulotomy procedure is required after
cataract surgery when the posterior capsule becomes cloudy and causes vision
problems. In posterior capsulotomy, the pulsed laser can be used to create an opening in
a clouded posterior capsule, thereby allowing light to pass freely through the opening.
In both types of capsulotomies, pulsed laser systems reduce the possibility of irregular,
inaccurate, and imprecise incisions and related complications that may occur with
manual surgical techniques.
[0006]      Laser eye surgeries are generally performed while the patient is awake.
Because a patient's eye movement can reduce the procedure's accuracy and precision,
the laser system needs to compensate for and/or reduce or stabilize eye movement. One
approach to do so uses an eye stabilizing device, such as a patient interface that
physically attaches to the patient's eye and prevents movement. Typically, the patient
interface is attached to the eye using mechanical pressure, such as vacuum suction,
which can be uncomfortable for the patient, and may even cause post-operative pain and
                                              2

scarring. Thus, certain alternate devices have been proposed to compensate for eye
movement. These include an eye tracker, which tracks the position of the eye during
surgery, and provides the system with real time signals about eye position. The laser
system then uses the position information from the eye tracker to adjust or reposition the
laser beam before making an incision. To ensure accuracy and precision, the trajectory
of the laser beam's focus must be corrected in real time to compensate for eye
movement monitored by the eye tracker. But, there are delays inherent to eye trackers
and their interactions with the laser system. Because the eye tracker and the laser beam
delivery mechanics tend to introduce positional errors due to latency between eye
movement and laser adjustment, the resulting incision pattern in the eye may deviate
from that which is programmed or desired. These can result in less than ideal incisions.
[0007]      Therefore, it would be beneficial to provide a pulsed laser surgical system
that uses an eye tracker and allows the laser beam to make robust and accurate incisions
despite eye tracker/laser beam adjustment latency issues.
                                             3

                                              SUMMARY
[0008]      An objective of this invention is to provide a laser ophthalmic system that
uses an eye tracker and allows the laser beam to make robust and accurate incisions
despite latency between the eye tracker and laser beam adjustment, which substantially
obviates one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.
To achieve this and other advantages, an embodiment of the present design provides a
method for performing an ophthalmic laser surgery using a non-ultraviolet ultra-short
pulsed laser system. The method includes establishing an initial cutting pattern
comprising a plurality of original photodisruption points, establishing an enhanced
cutting pattern comprising a plurality of enhanced photodisruption points selected to
decrease potential adverse effects due to patient movement and having increased density
over a fixed area as compared with the plurality of original photodisruption points, and
performing an ocular surgical procedure according to the enhanced cutting pattern.
Each photodisruption point in the initial cutting pattern and the enhanced cutting pattern
comprises a laser target point. Examples of cutting patterns may include circular cuts
around the periphery of a capsule, vertical side cuts for lens fragmentation, raster
lamellar cuts, and grid lamellar cuts. Various aspects and features of the disclosure are
described in further detail below.
[0009]      The above summary and the following detailed description are merely
exemplary, illustrative, and explanatory, and are not intended to limit, but to provide
further explanation of the invention as claimed. Additional features and advantages of
the invention will be set forth in the descriptions that follow, and in part, will be
apparent from the description, or may be learned by practicing various embodiments of
the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be realized by
                                               4

the structures and methods particularly pointed out in the written description and claims
as well as the accompanying drawings.
                                            5

                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]      FIG. 1 illustrates a general overview of a pulsed laser system configured to
employ an embodiment of the present design.
[0011]      FIG. 2 is a general diagram including a controller configured to control
various components illustrated in FIG. 1.
[0012]      FIGs. 3A-3C illustrate a first general cutting technique for use in a
capsulotomy during laser cataract surgery.
[0013]      FIGs. 4A and 4B illustrate a second capsulotomy procedure.
[0014]      FIGs. 5A and 5B illustrate a further embodiment of the present design for
use in performing a vertical side cut.
[0015]      FIGs. 6A and 6B show a raster lamellar cut pattern.
[0016]      FIGs. 7A and 7B illustrate an arrangement for performing a lamellar cut for
a corneal flap which is created to expose the corneal stroma in laser refractive surgery.
                                              6

                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0017] The following detailed description is merely illustrative and exemplary in nature
and is not intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter or the application,
and uses of such embodiments. As used in this disclosure, the words "exemplary" and
"illustrative" mean "serving as an example, instance, or illustration." Any
implementation described as exemplary or illustrative is not meant to be necessarily
construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. Further, there is no
intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding
background of the invention, brief summary, or the following detailed description.
[0018]       FIG. 1 illustrates a general overview of a non-ultraviolet pulsed laser system
configured to employ an embodiment of the present design. In FIG. 1, laser engine 100
includes laser source 101 which provides laser light in ultra-short pulses to variable
attenuator 102 configured to attenuate the beam, and energy monitors 103 to monitor
beam energy level, and first safety shutter 104 serving as a shutoff device if the beam is
unacceptable. Beam steering mirror 105 redirects the resultant laser beam to the beam
delivery device 110, through articulated arm 106 to range finding camera 111. The
range finding camera 111 determines the range needed for the desired focus at the eye
120. Beam delivery device 110 includes second safety shutter 112 and beam monitor
113, beam pre-expander 114, X-Y (position) scanner 115, and zoom beam expander
116. Zoom beam expander 116 expands the beam toward IR mirror 117 which reflects
and transmits the received beam. Mirror 118 reflects the received beam to video camera
119, which records the surgical procedure on the eye 120. IR mirror 117 also reflects
the laser light energy to objective lens 121, which focuses the laser light energy to eye
120.
                                              7

[0019]       In ophthalmic surgery, a non-ultraviolet (UV), ultra-short pulsed laser can
produce pulsed laser beams having pulse durations measured in femtoseconds. Such a
device as shown in FIG. 1 can provide an intrastromal photodisruption technique for
reshaping the cornea using a non-UV, ultra-short (e.g., femtosecond or picosecond pulse
duration), pulsed laser beam produced by laser source 101 that propagates through
corneal tissue and is focused at a point below the surface of the cornea to photodisrupt
stromal tissue at the focal point. The focusing optics, such as beam pre-expander 114,
zoom beam expander 116, IR mirror 117 and objective lens 121, direct the pulsed laser
beam toward an eye 120 (e.g., onto or into a cornea) for plasma mediated (e.g., non-UV)
photoablation of superficial tissue, or into the stroma of the cornea for intrastromal
photodisruption of tissue. In this embodiment, the system may also include a lens to
change the shape (e.g., flatten or curve) of the cornea prior to scanning the pulsed laser
beam toward the eye. The system is capable of generating the pulsed laser beam with
physical characteristics similar to those of the laser beams generated by a laser system
disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,764,930, U.S. Pat. No. 5,993,438, or the like.
[0021]       The ophthalmic laser system can produce an ultra-short pulsed laser beam
for use as an incising laser beam. This pulsed laser beam preferably has laser pulses
with durations as long as a few nanoseconds or as short as a few femtoseconds. For
intrastromal photodisruption of the tissue, the pulsed laser beam has a wavelength that
permits the pulsed laser beam to pass through the cornea without absorption by the
corneal tissue. The wavelength of the pulsed laser beam is generally in the range of
about 3 pm to about 1.9 nm, preferably between about 400 nm to about 3000 nm, and
the irradiance of the pulsed laser beam for accomplishing photodisruption of stromal
tissues at the focal point is typically greater than the threshold for optical breakdown of
the tissue. Although a non-UV, ultrashort pulsed laser beam is described in this
                                                8

embodiment, the pulsed laser beam may have other pulse durations and different
wavelengths in other embodiments. Further examples of devices used in performing
ophthalmic laser surgery are disclosed in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,549,632,
5,984,916, and 6,325,792, the contents of each of which are each incorporated herein by
reference.
[0022]      FIG. 2 illustrates a general diagram including a controller configured to
control various components illustrated in FIG. 1. Not shown in FIG. 1 is an eye tracker
typically used and placed on or adjacent to the eye to track eye movements. A series of
sensors may be provided to sense beam diameter, location, and intensity at the various
mirrors provided. FIG. 2 shows a control unit 201 configured to interface with the laser
source 202 to transmit the laser, the attenuator 203 to attenuate the laser beam, the first
safety shutter 204 to enable shutoff in extreme circumstances, a sensor 205 provided
with beam steering mirror 206, and camera 207. The control unit 201 also interfaces
with the x-y scanning device 208 to enable x-y scanning of the beam delivery device,
and controls range finding camera 209, second safety shutter 210, a sensor 211 attached
to beam monitor 212, the beam pre-expander 213, zoom beam expander 214, and the
sensor 215 attached to IR mirror 216. The control unit 201 interfaces with video camera
217 and objective lens unit 218 which contains the objective lens, and eye tracking
system 219.
[0023]      The present design seeks to control the position of the laser with respect to
the eye and provide patterns and techniques that enable more robust cuts than previous
systems and methods allowed. Certain techniques using eye tracking systems have been
used in the past to make specific cuts. But, because there is latency between the
tracking system 219 and the control unit 201 sensing eye movement, and the beam
                                              9

delivery device adjusting position of the beam to compensate for such movement, the
resulting cuts may be imprecise.
[0024]      In ophthalmic surgery using a non-ultraviolet, pulsed laser beam, a tissue cut
is realized when a 2D array of microscopic photodisruption points are connected by the
emitted beam, resulting in a macroscopic tissue separation. The present design uses an
enhanced laser treatment pattern so that the tolerance for microscopic positional
deviations of photodisruption points is increased and the likelihood of intended
macroscopic tissue separation is improved.
[0025]      Based on an existing pattern of photodisruption points, the present design
establishes an enhanced pattern that increases the probability that nearest-neighbor
photodisruption points will connect. As part of the enhanced pattern, the present design
places secondary, backup, or redundant photodisruption points such that multiple
connections are available between the photodisruption points, thus increasing the
likelihood that sufficient connections exist among the photodisruption points to result in
the intended macroscopic tissue separation even in the presence of positional errors.
[0026]      The present design includes descriptions of various patterns of
photodisruption points. However, the design is not specifically limited to the techniques
and patterns disclosed herein. Various other patterns and designs may be used as ocular
surgery can change depending on a variety of circumstances and new techniques. In
general, however, the specific patterns employed are intended to provide robust cuts
depending on a number of variables, including the surgical needs, the desired cut shape
and orientation, the range of actual and potential position errors, the eye movement
characteristics, the laser depth of focus, and the laser pulse rate.
[0027]      In laser ophthalmic surgery, it is generally understood that virtually any laser
position can be attained by device and laser beam movement in addition to the precision
                                              10

focus mechanisms available to the laser. In this regard, a number of different patterns
and positions can be executed or attained. While primarily discussed with respect to
making certain cuts, it is to be understood the present design may also be employed to
perform fragmentation or chopping of a lens.
[0028]      FIGs. 3A-3C illustrate a first general cutting technique for use in a
capsulotomy during laser cataract surgery. FIG. 3A is a side view of a capsule region
desired to be cut, wherein a cut resembling a sine wave is employed around the outside
or periphery of the capsule region. In FIG. 3A, the laser scans in the z-direction in a
depth range of a certain number of micrometers, i.e. scans up and down an
approximately equal distance in micrometers around the periphery of the capsule. If a
patient moves his or her eye during this procedure, there is a possibility that the cut will
not close or complete.
[0029]      FIG. 3B is a top view of one such scan where patient movement results in
the pattern not being completed, i.e. the end of the pattern does not meet the beginning
of the pattern and thus leaves an uncut gap 301, resulting in incomplete separation and
tear of the capsule material. FIG. 3C shows an improved scan according to the present
design, wherein the pattern is altered such that overlap exists, i.e. the side cut is over
360 degrees. In this arrangement, the side cut forms a closed loop. Hence in this
embodiment, an initial pattern is contemplated, here having a 360 degree profile, and an
improved pattern is established, here a greater than 360 degree pattern, going from a
revised start point 302, cutting according to the pattern, and ending at a revised end
point 303 resulting in a greater than 360 degree cut. The result is a likely cut with an
overlap at or around point 302.
                                             11

[0030]      In the drawings, the photodisruption points that are pictured represent
desired target points for the laser and not the actual cuts or incisions, which may differ
in size and shape and may be slightly off-set from the photodisruption points pictured.
[0031]      Thus the design of FIGs. 3A-3C can be thought of as having one disruption
point as a baseline cut pattern, and a revised or enhanced cut pattern that includes two
disruption points, the start and end point in FIG. 3C, selected to increase the likelihood
of a complete cut and decrease potential adverse effects due to patient movement.
[0032]      FIGs 4A and 4B illustrate a second capsulotomy procedure. The top of
FIG. 4A is a side perspective view of the capsule while the bottom of FIG. 4A is a side
view of the capsule. The top view of FIG. 4A illustrates a series of circles used to cut
the capsule in a series of slices. The bottom view is a side cut-away view illustrating
the various photodisruption points in the circular pattern. In FIG. 4A, the laser cuts a
circle from point 401 to point 402 and back around to point 401, and then proceeds to
the next cut. In the presence of position errors, this circular laser cutting trajectory will
not return to a point exactly beneath or above the previous turn, potentially resulting in
no connectivity between turns forming the cut, and therefore, an incomplete cut.
[0033]      FIG. 4B illustrates a spiral pattern for a capsulotomy wherein a series of
additional photodisruption points are established, in this arrangement both vertically and
horizontally offset from the prior set of photodisruption points, i.e. the baseline pattern
of FIG. 4A. In operation, a cut is made around the capsule at points 403 and 404, and
the laser proceeds to a cut around the capsule at points 405 and 406, and progresses in
this manner via all the remaining points. Thus, the design of FIGs. 4A and 4B provide
a baseline cut pattern and a modified or enhanced cutting pattern including an additional
number of photodisruption or cut points selected to provide an enhanced likelihood of
tissue separation in the presence of position errors.
                                              12

[0034]       FIGs. 5A and 5B illustrate a further embodiment of the present design for
use in a vertical side cut, useful in lens fragmentation and typically employed during
refractive surgery to create a corneal flap. From FIG. 5A, a single layer vertical cut is
provided, with a series of photodisruption points. As is understood to those skilled in
the art, the photodisruption points represent points where the laser is focused, and use of
the laser at such photodisruption points causes penetration of the tissue and adjacent
points are in sufficient proximity to prevent tearing, i.e. a small enough amount of tissue
remains such that the tissue separates and a cut made. In the depiction of FIG. 5A, the
laser progresses sequentially through each of the diagonal lines presented. Again, such
a pattern is sensitive to position error in that movement of the eye can result in an
incomplete or inadequate cut.
[0035]       FIG. 5B illustrates a multi-layered vertical side cut in accordance with the
present design, wherein additional disruption points are provided at an offset, both
vertically and horizontally, from the baseline cut pattern of FIG. 5A. This enhanced
multi-layered vertical side cut pattern may be traversed in different ways using the ultra
short pulsed laser, such as going over and cutting a first (topmost) diagonal line,
followed by a cut of a second (lower) diagonal line, and progressing sequentially
downward through successive diagonal lines. Thus, the present embodiment includes
establishing a baseline cut pattern and adding a series of photodisruption points to the
baseline profile selected to provide an enhanced likelihood of tissue separation in the
presence of position errors.
[0036]       FIGs. 6A and 6B illustrate a raster lamellar cut for lens fragmentation
according to the present design. FIG. 6A shows a baseline raster laser cutting pattern
comprising a series of linear cuts to a plurality of points, such as upper point 601 and
lower point 602. Such a linear cutting profile is subject to positional errors, possibly
                                                13

resulting in portions of the pattern being uncut, with an increased risk of tearing. The
time to complete one raster scan, such as a scan from point 601 to 602, is generally less
than 10 milliseconds, and this can be enough time to result in positional errors if the eye
moves.
[0037]       FIG. 6B illustrates a raster scan with two sets of cuts and two sets of
photodisruption points, including upper first point 603 and upper second point 604, and
lower first point 605 and lower second point 606. The time to complete one scan, i.e.
from upper first point 603 to upper second point 604, is typically much less than 10
milliseconds. A briefer traversal of the raster pattern, and a smaller raster pattern used,
results in a reduction in the likelihood of position error. Using the pattern of FIG. 6B,
the two halves of the raster period (upstroke/downstroke) will more likely connect even
in the presence of eye movement.
[0038]       For the case of a longer depth of laser focus, which depends on the system's
numerical aperture, the two raster patterns tend to be thick in the z-direction, and will be
connected when there is an overlap between the two shorter raster patterns shown in
FIG. 6B. However, if the depth of focus is small, the system can apply a three
dimensional (3D) laser pattern or laser pattern array, shown as pattern 610, to reliably
connect the two raster patterns to result in big lamellar cut.
[0039]       From FIG. 6B, it is apparent that the disruption points 604 in the upper
raster scan and 605 in the lower raster scan enter, in this view, the 3D region, pattern
610. A different sized 3D region, pattern 610 that touches the end points of a raster scan
or raster scans that do not touch or barely touch the 3D region may be used. In general,
overlap between the raster scans and the 3D pattern can provided enhanced likelihood of
successful cutting. Thus, the present embodiment comprises again establishing a
baseline pattern and providing an increased number of photodisruption points designed
                                               14

or intended to increase likelihood of a robust cut, or decrease the potential effects of
position errors.
[0040]       FIGs. 7A and 7B illustrate an arrangement for performing a lamellar laser
cut for a flap created to expose the stroma in photoablative refractive surgery. FIG.7A
shows a regular pattern, here a square comprising a series of cut points shown in a
Cartesian grid pattern. In this case, a non-edge, non-corner photodisruption point has
four closest neighbors, and distance between, for example, points diagonal from one
another is longer than points laterally or vertically separated. Position errors can be an
issue with the arrangement of FIG. 7A.
[0041]       FIG. 7B illustrates a triangular or hexagonal distribution of photodisruption
points. In FIG. 7B, a triangular cutting pattern is presented, and use of such a triangular
photodisruption point pattern effectively reduces issues related to position errors.
Cutting using the triangular/hexagonal arrangement of FIG. 7B provides a closer
proximity of nearest neighbor photodisruption points, decreasing issues of improper
cuts when the patient moves.
[0042]       The design of FIGs. 7A and 7B again begin with a baseline pattern of
photodisruption points and provide an additional quantity of photodisruption points
intended to decrease positional errors. In the arrangement of FIGs. 7A and 7B, the
photodisruption points do not include the original pattern with additional
photodisruption points added, as in previous embodiments, but instead include an
increased number of photodisruption points in an equivalent area.
[0043]       The present design is therefore an apparatus and method for performing
ophthalmic laser surgery using a pulsed laser beam, wherein the method comprises
establishing an initial cutting pattern comprising a plurality of original photodisruption
points, and establishing an enhanced cutting pattern comprising a plurality of enhanced
                                               15

photodisruption points, the plurality of enhanced disruption points selected to decrease
potential adverse effects due to patient movement and having increased density over a
fixed area than the plurality of original photodisruption points. The apparatus or
method further includes performing an ocular surgical procedure according to the
enhanced cutting pattern. Each photodisruption point comprises a laser target point.
Examples of cutting patterns may include circular cuts around the periphery of a
capsule, vertical side cuts for lens fragmentation, raster lamellar cuts, and grid lamellar
cuts.
[0044]       For example, in the vertical side cut arrangement, the method directs the
pulsed laser beam to make a vertical side cut thereby creating a flap, the vertical side cut
traversing a plurality of generally diagonal paths according to the enhanced
fragmentation cutting pattern. Each photodisruption point in the initial fragmentation
cutting pattern and the enhanced fragmentation cutting pattern comprises a laser target
point, and wherein the vertical side cut traversing the plurality of generally diagonal
paths provides an increased length scanning pattern relative to a cut made according to
the initial fragmentation cutting pattern.
[0045]       Alternately, the present design comprises an apparatus for performing an
ocular laser surgical procedure based on an initial cutting pattern comprising a plurality
of original photodisruption points. The apparatus comprises a laser system configured
to emit a pulsed beam, optical elements configured to focus the pulsed beam emitted by
the laser at a desired position on an eye of a patient, and a controller configured to
control the laser and the optical elements, wherein the controller is configured to use an
enhanced cutting pattern comprising a plurality of enhanced photodisruption points
selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to patient movement and has increased
density over a fixed area as compared with the plurality of original photodisruption
                                              16

points. Each photodisruption point in the initial cutting pattern and the enhanced cutting
pattern comprises a laser target point. Examples of cutting patterns may again include
circular cuts around the periphery of a capsule, vertical side cuts for lens fragmentation,
raster lamellar cuts, and grid lamellar cuts, but other patterns or scans may be used.
[0046]      In either the method or the apparatus, the plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points may comprise a non-zero percentage of the plurality of original
photodisruption points, or the plurality of enhanced photodisruption points may
comprise none of the plurality of original photodisruption points.
[0047]      An apparatus implementing the techniques or circuits described herein may
be a stand-alone device or may be part of a larger device or system. In one or more
exemplary designs, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software,
firmware, or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may
be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer
readable medium. Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and
communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer
program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that
can be accessed by a computer. By way of example, and not limitation, such computer
readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM, CD-ROM or other optical disk
storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium
that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or
data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also, any connection is
properly termed a computer-readable medium. For example, if the software is
transmitted from a website, server, or other remote source using a coaxial cable, fiber
optic cable, twisted pair, digital subscriber line (DSL), or wireless technologies such as
infrared, radio, and microwave, then the coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, twisted pair,
                                               17

I: \kmh\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KMII\16053411l.docx-23 /t12017
DSL, or wireless technologies such as infrared, radio, and microwave are included in
the definition of medium. Disk and disc, as used herein, includes compact disc (CD),
 laser disc, optical disc, digital versatile disc (DVD), floppy disk and blu-ray disc where
disks usually reproduce data magnetically, while discs reproduce data optically with
 lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of
 computer-readable media.
 [0048]                      This disclosure has been provided in an exemplary form with a certain
 degree of particularity, and describes the best mode contemplated of carrying out the
 invention to enable a person skilled in the art to make or use embodiments of the
 invention. Those skilled in the art will understand, however, that various modifications,
 alternative constructions, changes, and variations can be made in the apparatus, method,
 and parts and steps thereof, without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.
Hence, the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific examples and designs
that are described. Rather, it should be accorded the broadest scope consistent with the
 spirit, principles, and novel features disclosed as generally expressed by the following
 claims and their equivalents.
 [0049]                      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
 derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an
 acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or
 information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
 [0050]                      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
 context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or
 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
 group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
 integers or steps.
                                                               18

H-\kmhreroven\NRPonbl\DCC\KM1I6053551_ .dox-23/lU2017
The claims defining the present invention are as follows:
 1.           A method for performing ophthalmic laser surgery using a device configured to
transmit a pulsed laser beam, including:
              establishing an initial cutting pattern including a plurality of original
photodisruption points;
              establishing an enhanced cutting pattern including a plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to patient
movement and having increased density over a fixed area as compared with the plurality of
original photodisruption points; and
              directing the pulsed laser beam to make a generally circular cut around a periphery
of a patient capsule according to the enhanced cutting pattern.
2.            A method for performing ophthalmic laser surgery using a device configured to
transmit a pulsed laser beam, including:
              establishing an initial fragmentation cutting pattern including a plurality of original
photodisruption points;
              establishing an enhanced fragmentation cutting pattern including a plurality of
enhanced photodisruption points selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to
patient movement and having increased density over a fixed area as compared with the
plurality of original photodisruption points; and
              directing the pulsed laser beam to make a vertical side cut thereby creating a flap,
the vertical side cut traversing a plurality of generally diagonal paths according to the
enhanced fragmentation cutting pattern.
3.            A method for performing ophthalmic laser surgery using a device configured to
transmit a pulsed laser beam, including:
              establishing an initial cutting pattern including a plurality of original
photodisruption points;
              establishing an enhanced cutting pattern including a plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to patient
movement and having increased density over a fixed area as compared with the plurality of
                                                      19

H-\kmhreroven\NRPonbl\DCC\KMH1653551_1.doex-23/lU2017
original photodisruption points; and
              directing the pulsed laser beam to make a raster lamellar cut, the raster lamellar cut
traversing two raster regions in at least one raster scanning pattern according to the
enhanced cutting pattern.
4.            A method for performing ophthalmic laser surgery using a device configured to
transmit a pulsed laser beam, including:
              establishing an initial cutting pattern including a plurality of original
photodisruption points;
              establishing an enhanced cutting pattern including a plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to patient
movement and having increased density over a fixed area as compared with the plurality of
original photodisruption points; and
              directing the pulsed laser beam to make a lamellar cut according to the enhanced
cutting pattern to produce a flap, wherein at least three of the enhanced photodisruption
points form a triangular shape.
5.            The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points include a nonzero percentage of the plurality of original
photodisruption points.
6.            The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points include none of the plurality of original photodisruption points.
7.            An apparatus for performing an ocular laser surgical procedure based on an initial
cutting pattern including a plurality of original photodisruption points, including:
              a laser configured to emit a beam;
              optical elements configured to focus the beam emitted by the laser at a desired
position on an eye of a patient; and
              a controller configured to control the laser and the optical elements, wherein the
controller is configured to use an enhanced cutting pattern including a plurality of
enhanced photodisruption points selected to decrease potential adverse effects due to
                                                      20

  kmh reroven\NRPonbl\DCC\KM \1I6h3551_ .dox-23/lU,2017
patient movement and has increased density over a fixed area as compared with the
plurality of original photodisruption points.
8.          The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the enhanced cutting pattern includes a generally
circular cut around a periphery of a patient capsule.
9.          The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the enhanced cutting pattern includes a vertical
side cut thereby creating a flap, the vertical side cut traversing a plurality of generally
diagonal paths.
10.         The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the enhanced cutting pattern includes a raster
lamellar cut traversing two raster regions in at least one raster scanning pattern.
11.         The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the enhanced cutting pattern further includes a
3D laser array pattern generally between the two raster regions.
12.         The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the enhanced cutting pattern includes a lamellar
cut producing a flap, wherein at least three of the enhanced photodisruption points form a
triangular shape.
13.         The apparatus of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points include a nonzero percentage of the plurality of original
photodisruption points.
14.         The apparatus of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the plurality of enhanced
photodisruption points include none of the plurality of original photodisruption points.
                                                        21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
