                                       ABSTRACT
[0200] Methods are presented for attenuating myelosuppressive side effects of treatment
regimens, promoting thrombopoiesis and neutrophil production, and increasing efficacy of
treatment regimens, by administering PF4-interacting heparinoids.

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
                         TREATMENT OF MYELOSUPPRESSION
  1.      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  [00011 This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional
  Application nos. 61/724,836, filed November 9, 2012; 61/702,207, filed September 17,
  2012; 61/678,053, filed July 31, 2012; 61/668,709, filed July 6, 2012; 61/664,611, filed
  June 26, 2012; 61/653,362, filed May 30, 2012; 61/648,043, filed May 16, 2012;
  61/644,623, filed May 9, 2012; and 61/644,556, filed May 9, 2012, the contents of all of
  which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference thereto.
  2.      BACKGROUND
  [0002] Platelets play a critical role in the blood clotting mechanism. Depletion of
  platelets below a certain level results in thrombocytopenia, which can be triggered by a
  number of clinical conditions and disorders and can range from mild to life-threatening.
   [0003] Thombocytopenia can be triggered by diseases and conditions affecting the bone
  marrow, where platelet precursors arise before entering the bloodstream; by diseases and
  conditions affecting the liver, which produces thrombopoietin, the hormone that
  stimulates the production of platelets; by sequestration of platelets; by increased
  destruction of platelets; and by a variety of other causes. In particular, thrombocytopenia
  is a common side effect of certain treatment regimens, such as cancer treatment regimens
  involving antineoplastic agents. Chemotherapy-induced or radiation-induced
  thrombocytopenia can result in delays in treatment and/or compel reductions in treatment
  dose, which in turn can result in reduced efficacy of the treatment.
  [0004] Because severe thrombocytopenia puts a patient at risk of uncontrolled
  hemorrhage, development of safe and effective treatments for thrombocytopenia is highly
  desirable. In spite of the clear need for such treatments, however, very few such
  treatments exist. Attempts to develop a recombinant form of human thrombopoietin have
  proved unsuccessful. While a recombinant human thrombopoietin showed early promise,
  it showed a tendency to induce the development of auto-antibodies when tested in
  patients. Currently, standard therapy of thrombocytopenia, such as immune-mediated
  thrombocytopenia, can include treatment with corticosteroids, rituximab, and/or
  thrombopoietin receptor agonists, splenectomy, and platelet transfusions. However, each
                                                 -1-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  has drawbacks, including incomplete response, development of side effects to treatment,
  and risks attendant to any form of surgery. For chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia,
  only one therapeutic agent, interleukin- 11, has proven sufficiently effective to merit
  regulatory approval, but is rarely prescribed by physicians because of the severity of its
  side effects. For radiation-induced thrombocytopenia, there is no approved therapeutic
  agent that attenuates the thrombocytopenia. Thus, there remains a significant need for
  agents that attenuate thrombocytopenias of varying etiology, including immune-mediated
  thrombocytopenias, drug-induced thrombocytopenias, especially chemotherapy-induced
  thrombocytopenia, and radiation-induced thrombocytopenia.
  [0005] Neutrophils, also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes, are the most numerous of
  the blood cells known as granulocytes. Neutrophils, like other blood cells, are produced
  by the bone marrow. Neutrophils are an important component of natural immunity.
  When neutrophil levels fall below normal, a condition called neutropenia occurs,
  increasing the risk of infection. Neutropenia can arise from a number of different causes,
  ranging from congenital defects to viral infections, but a context in which neutropenia
  frequently occurs is as a side effect of a treatment regimen. Neutropenia is a common
  side effect in patients being treated for cancer with antineoplastic agents, putting patients
  at risk of developing serious and even life-threatening infections, and forcing delays in
  treatment and/or compelling reduction in treatment dose, resulting in reduced efficacy.
  [0006] A variety of agents and therapies have been tested to combat neutropenia, with
  varying degrees of success. Administration of glucocorticoids, androgenic steroids, and
  vitamins to stimulate bone marrow to produce more neutrophils has not proved
  successful. At present, only two agents - granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)
  and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) - are widely used to
  treat patients with severe neutropenia, most often after intensive cancer chemotherapy
  and/or bone marrow transplantation. These agents exhibit adverse effects such as bone
  pain, abnormalities of liver dysfunctions and pleural and pericardial effusions. Thus,
  there is a need for compounds that are safe and effective for treating neutropenia and
  promoting neutrophil production.
                                                 -2-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
  3.       SUMMARY
  [00071 In a first aspect, methods are provided for attenuating a myelosuppressive side
  effect of a patient treatment regimen. The methods comprise adjunctively administering
  to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a platelet factor 4-interacting
  heparinoid (hereinafter "PF4-interacting heparinoid"). As provided herein, a
  myelosuppressive side effect is the occurrence of thrombocytopenia and/or neutropenia,
  and a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is a treatment
  regimen that induces, as a side effect, one or both of thrombocytopenia and neutropenia.
  In various embodiments, this aspect provides uses of a PF4-interacting heparinoid, e.g.,
  ODSH, in the attenuation of a myelosuppressive side effect of a patient treatment
  regimen.
  [0008] Numerous patient treatment regimens have myelosuppressive side effects,
  including antineoplastic treatment regimens, such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy,
  antibody therapy, including treatment regimens used to treat cancer and/or auto-immune
  diseases, and transplant procedures, such as bone marrow or stem cell transplant. In
  certain embodiments, the patient treatment regimen comprises chemotherapy and/or
  radiation therapy and/or antibody therapy. In an exemplary embodiment, the patient
  treatment regimen is a chemotherapeutic regimen comprising gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel. In an exemplary embodiment, the patient treatment regimen is a
  chemotherapeutic regimen comprising ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide, optionally
  including rituximab. In certain embodiments, the patient treatment regimen comprises
  one or more regimens suitable for the treatment of subjects diagnosed with acute
  myelogenous or myeloid leukemia ("AML"). In an exemplary embodiment, a regimen
  suitable for the treatment of subjects diagnosed with AML comprises a chemotherapy
  regimen suitable for inducing remission of AML (known in the art as induction
  chemotherapy), a chemotherapy regimen for preventing remission of AML (known in the
  art as consolidation chemotherapy), or both induction and consolidation chemotherapy.
  Optionally, a regimen suitable for the treatment of subjects diagnosed with AML can also
  comprise one or more non-chemotherapy-based regimens for preventing remission of
  AML, which can be used instead of or in combination with consolidation chemotherapy.
  These non-chemotherapy-based regimens include stem cell transplant, such as allogeneic
                                               -3-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
  stem cell transplant, and immunotherapy. Further patient treatment regimens are
  described in Section 5.1.1.
  [0009] In various embodiments, the methods are useful for treating subjects diagnosed
  with cancer, for example pancreatic cancer, solid tumors including osteosarcoma,
  neuroblastoma, or AML. The subject being treated can be an adult or a pediatric patient.
  In some embodiments, the subject is diagnosed with a cancer in which PF4 levels are
  elevated either in platelets or in blood (referred to hereinafter as "PF4-positive cancer").
  Examples of PF4-positive cancers include pancreatic cancer and colorectal cancer.
  Further suitable subjects are described in Section 5.1.2.
  [00101 In some embodiments, the methods may further comprise adjunctive
  administration of one or more additional agent or therapy that is pro-thrombopoietic, anti
  thrombocytopenic, anti-neutropenic, pro-granulopoietic, and/or anticoagulant. Suitable
  agents and therapies for further adjunctive administration are described herein at Section
  5.1.3. In some embodiments, two or more agents and/or therapies are administered. The
  two or more agents can have the same activity (e.g., anti-thrombocytopenic), different
  activity (e.g., a first agent is pro-thrombopoietic and a second agent is anti-neutropenic),
  or overlapping activity (e.g., a first agent is pro-granulopoietic and anticoagulant and a
  second agent is anti-coagulant).
  [0011] The PF4-interacting heparinoid, and any adjunctively administered additional
  agent(s) or therapy, can be administered concurrently, sequentially, or separately from
  administration of the patient treatment regimen. Suitable routes and modes of
  administration are provided below in Section 5.8.
  [00121 In a second aspect, methods are provided for promoting thrombopoiesis in a
  subject. The methods comprise administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid to the subject. The subject can be thrombocytopenic or non
  thrombocytopenic, as described below in Section 5.2.        In various embodiments, the
  methods comprise treating myelosuppression caused by a disease or condition that
  reduces platelet count in a subject. In an exemplary embodiment, the subject is diagnosed
  with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), sepsis, or septicemia.
  Optionally, the subject has elevated serum or plasma level of PF4. In some embodiments,
  the methods further comprise adjunctive administration of one or more additional agent or
                                                  -4-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  therapy that is pro-thrombopoietic, anti-thrombocytopenic, anti-neutropenic, pro
  granulopoietic, and/or anticoagulant. Suitable agents and therapies for further adjunctive
  administration are described herein at Section 5.2.1.
  [0013] In a third aspect, methods are provided for promoting neutrophil production in a
  subject. The methods comprise administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid to the subject. The subject can be neutropenic or non-neutropenic, as
  described below in Section 5.3. In various embodiments, the methods comprise treating
  myelosuppression caused by a disease or condition that reduces neutrophil count in a
  subject. Optionally, the subject has elevated serum.or plasma level of PF4. In some
  embodiments, the methods further comprise adjunctive administration of one or more
  additional agent or therapy that is pro-thrombopoietic, anti-thrombocytopenic, anti
  neutropenic, pro-granulopoietic, and/or anticoagulant. Suitable agents and therapies for
  further adjunctive administration are described herein at Section 5.3.1.
  [0014] In a fourth aspect, methods are provided for increasing the efficacy of a patient
  treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect. The methods comprise
  administering a therapeutically effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to the
  subject patient as an adjunct to the patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive
  side effect, without reducing the dose and/or dosage frequency of the patient treatment
  regimen following a reference treatment administration or treatment cycle.
  [0015] In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a dose higher
  than is typically used for such administration or cycle in the absence of adjunctive
  administration of a PF4-interacting heparinoid.
  [0016] In certain embodiments, the methods further comprise determining an initial
  platelet count in a blood sample from a patient and administering an amount of a PF4
  interacting heparinoid effective to raise the patient's platelet count above a threshold level
  below which therapy with patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side
  effect is contraindicated. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is administered sufficient to maintain platelet levels above levels that indicate
  grade 3 (severe) or grade 4 (life-threatening) thrombocytopenia. Optionally, the methods
  can further comprise administering adjunctively to the PF4-interacting heparinoid one or
  more agents or therapies that is anti-thrombocytopenic, anti-neutropenic, anticoagulant, or
                                                 -5-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  has some other therapeutic activity. In some embodiments, the methods comprise a
  further step of administering a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side
  effect to the patient whose platelet count is above a threshold level that contraindicates
  such therapy. Optionally, the dose amount and/or frequency of the patient treatment
  regimen can be increased.
  [00171 In certain embodiments, the methods comprise determining an initial neutrophil
  count in a blood sample from a patient and administering an amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid effective to raise the patient's neutrophil count above a threshold level below
  which therapy with patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is
  contraindicated. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  administered sufficient to maintain neutrophil levels above levels that indicate grade 3 or
  grade 4 neutropenia, i.e., above about 1000 neutrophils/pl of blood and above about 500
  neutrophils/pl of blood, respectively. Optionally, the methods can further comprise
  administering adjunctively to the PF4-interacting heparinoid one or more agents or
  therapies that is anti-neutropenic, anti-thrombocytopenic, anticoagulant, or has some
  other therapeutic activity. In some embodiments, the methods comprise a further step of
  administering a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect to the
  patient whose neutrophil count is above a level that contraindicates such therapy.
  Optionally, the dose amount and/or frequency of the patient treatment regimen can be
  increased.
  [0018] The PF4-interacting heparinoids of the present disclosure are heparinoids that are
  capable of interacting with PF4 and counteracting PF4's ability to suppress production of
  platelets and neutrophils. PF4-interacting heparinoids bind to PF4 and/or compete with
  PF4 for binding to progenitor cells in the myeloid cell lineage, e.g., megakaryocytes.
  Preferably, PF4-interacting heparinoids have an average molecular weight above about 8
  kDa, such as an average molecular weight between about 8 kDa and about 15 kDa, more
  preferably between about 11 kDa and 13 kDa. The PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  preferably partially desulfated. In some embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  substantially sulfated at the 6-0 and/or the N position. An exemplary PF4-interacting
  heparinoid, which is suitable for use in the methods described herein, is substantially 2-0,
  3-0 desulfated, referred to herein as ODSH. See also Section 5.6.
                                                -6-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0019] The present disclosure further provides pharmaceutical compositions and unit
  dosage forms comprising PF4-interacting heparinoids, suitable for use in the methods
  described herein, either alone or adjunctive to a patient treatment regimen and/or one or
  more additional agent or therapy. The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared for
  parenteral administration, such as intravenous or subcutaneous administration. For
  intravenous administration, pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated for
  administration as a bolus or as a continuous infusion.
  [0020] Pharmaceutical compositions for use in the methods disclosed herein comprise an
  amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid, as described below in Section 5.9, sufficient to
  allow effective doses to be administered.
  [0021] In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of PF4-interacting heparinoid
  are suitable for intravenous administration at doses ranging from about 0.1 mg/kg/hr to
  about 2.5 mg/kg/hr for infusions and from about 1 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg for bolus
  doses. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of PF4-interacting heparinoid
  are suitable for subcutaneous administration and are formulated for administration at
  doses ranging from about 25 mg to about 400 mg, in volumes of 2.0 ml or less per
  injection site.
  4.      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
  [0022] FIG. 1 provides a graph illustrating the effect of 8 different treatment regimens on
  tumor weight in an in vivo murine xenograft model of human pancreatic cancer, as
  described further in Example 1 and at Table 1: vehicle control (Group 1, e); ODSH alone
  (Group 2, 0); oxaliplatin/gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel (Group 3, m); gemcitabine alone
  (Group 4, o); oxaliplatin/gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel with ODSH (Group 5, A);
  gemcitabine with ODSH (Group 6, A); oxaliplatin/gemcitabine (Group 7, x); and
  oxaliplatin/gemcitabine with ODSH (Group 8, *).
  [0023] FIG. 2 provides a graph illustrating the effect on tumor weight of a subset of the
  treatment regimens used in Example 1 and shown in FIG. 1: vehicle control (Group 1, e);
  ODSH alone (Group 2, 0); gemcitabine alone (Group 4, o); and gemcitabine with ODSH
  (Group 6, A).
                                               -7-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0024] FIG. 3 provides a graph illustrating the effect on body weight of the 8 different
  regimens used in Example 1: vehicle control (Group 1, e); ODSH alone (Group 2, 0);
  oxaliplatin/gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel (Group 3, m); gemcitabine alone (Group 4, o);
  oxaliplatin/gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel with ODSH (Group 5, A); gemcitabine with
  ODSH (Group 6, A); oxaliplatin/gemcitabine (Group 7, x); and oxaliplatin/gemcitabine
  with ODSH (Group 8, *).
  [0025] FIG. 4 provides a graph illustrating the effect on tumor weight of 4 different
  treatment regimens in an in vivo murine xenograft model of human ovarian cancer, as
  described further in Example 2: vehicle control (Group 1, e); ODSH alone (Group 2, +);
  carboplatin (Group 3, m); and carboplatin with ODSH (Group 4, A).
  [0026] FIG. 5 provides a graph illustrating the effect on tumor weight of the treatment
  regimens shown in FIG. 4, for days 1-21 of the study.
  [0027] FIG. 6 provides a graph illustrating the effect on mouse body weight of the 4
  different regimens used in Example 2: vehicle control (Group 1, e); ODSH alone (Group
  2, *); carboplatin (Group 3, m); and carboplatin with ODSH (Group 4, A), as described
  further in Example 2.
  [0028] FIG. 7 provides a graph illustrating the effect on mouse body weight of the
  treatment regimens shown in FIG. 6 for days 1-21.
  [0029] FIG. 8 provides a chart of the platelet count (in X 103 platelets/pL) of patients
  with metastatic pancreatic cancer entered in the clinical trial described in Example 3, as
  measured in samples taken on day 1, day 8, and day 15 of each chemotherapy cycle as
  indicated (CID1 = cycle 1, day 1; C2D8 = cycle 2, day 8, etc.). Horizontal lines mark the
  lower limit of normal platelet count (LLN) and the lower limit (LL) of the indicated
  grades of thrombocytopenia.
  [00301 FIG. 9 provides a chart of the neutrophil count (in X 103 neutrophils/pL)
  measured in samples taken from the same individuals described in FIG. 8, on day 1, day
  8, and day 15 of each chemotherapy cycle as indicated (CIDI       = cycle 1, day 1; C2D8 =
  cycle 2, day 8, etc.). Horizontal lines mark the lower limit of normal neutrophil count
  (LLN) and the lower limit (LL) of the indicated grades of neutropenia.
                                               -8-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  [00311 FIG. 1OA-10B provide mean and median platelet counts (FIG. 10A) and mean
  and median absolute neutrophil counts (FIG. 10B) for all samples at the indicated days in
  each of the indicated cycles.
  [0032] FIGS. 1 1A-F provides charts of the size of pancreatic and metastatic lesions in
  specific patients enrolled in the clinical trial described in Example 3 who have stable
  disease and who are receiving adjunctive administration of ODSH and chemotherapeutic
  agents. FIGS. 11A shows the size of two pulmonary metastases in patient 2001 at
  baseline and at the end of cycle 4. FIGS. 11B-C show tumor size of metastatic lesions in
  the liver and lymph nodes at the end of treatment cycle 2 (FIG. 11B) and lesions in the
  pancreas, liver and lymph nodes at the end of cycle 5 (FIG. 11C) relative to the start of
  treatment (baseline) for patient 6002. FIG. 11D shows the size of two pulmonary
  metastases in patient 6003 at baseline and at the end of cycle 6. FIG. 11 E shows the size
  of pancreatic tumors and a metastatic liver tumor in patient 6006 at baseline and at the
  end of cycle 4. FIG. 1 IF shows the size of a pancreatic tumor in patient 8001 at baseline
  and at the end of cycle 2.
  [0033] FIGS. 12A-F provide charts showing the tumor response of patients receiving
  adjunctive administration of ODSH and chemotherapy. FIG. 12A provides a chart
  summarizing sites of metastatic disease before the start of chemotherapy, levels of CA19
  9 at baseline and after several chemotherapy cycles, and tumor response for each
  indicated patient. FIG. 12B-12F provides charts of the size of tumors for patients 6004,
  6007, 7001, 7002, and 9001, showing a partial response at the end of treatment cycle 4 or
  5, relative to baseline.
  [0034] FIGS. 13A-B provide charts showing platelet counts at days 1 and 15 of indicated
  cycles for patients treated with gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel, and ODSH ("ODSH arm
  patients") and patients treated with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel ("Control arm
  patients"). FIG. 13A provides a chart showing platelet counts, at day I of cycle 1 (before
  any chemotherapy) and at day 15 of cycle 1 (after two doses of chemotherapy) in 5
  ODSH arm patients and 5 Control arm patients. Median and mean platelet counts for the
  control arm and the ODSH arm at days 1 and 15 are also shown. FIG. 13B provides a
  chart showing median platelet counts at days 1 and 15 of cycles 1 through 6 for Control
  arm patients and ODSH arm patients.
                                                  -9-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
   5.      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0035] It has been discovered that heparinoids that are capable of interacting with platelet
   factor 4 (hereinafter, "PF4-interacting heparinoids") can attenuate thrombocytopenia and
  neutropenia of various etiologies. It has further been found that PF4-interacting
  heparinoids induce or disinhibit thrombopoiesis and granulopoiesis. Without intending to
  be bound by theory, it is thought that these effects are mediated by the ability of such
  heparinoids to reduce PF4 levels and/or counteract a suppressive effect of PF4 on
  megakaryopoiesis and granulopoiesis.
           5.1.    Methods of attenuating myelosuppressive side effects of treatment
                   regimens
   [0036] As described in Example 3 below, patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic
  cancer who were treated adjunctively with an exemplary PF4-interacting heparinoid,
  referred to herein as ODSH (a heparinoid that is substantially desulfated at 2-0 and 3-0
  positions, further described in Section 5.6), had increased platelet counts at the end of a
  first 4 week cycle of a chemotherapy regimen that is known to have a substantial
  myelosuppressive side effect. These effects continued in successive cycles of treatment
  and the results demonstrated that adjunctively administered ODSH attenuates
  thrombocytopenia and neutropenia in patients receiving a chemotherapy treatment
  regimen having myelosuppressive side effects.
   [0037] Thus, in a first aspect, methods are provided for attenuating a myelosuppressive
  side effect of a patient treatment regimen. The methods comprise administering a
  therapeutically effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to the subject patient as
  an adjunct to the patient treatment regimen having myelosuppressive side effect. Thus,
  provided herein are uses of a PF4-interacting heparinoid, optionally ODSH, in the
  attenuation of a myelosuppressive side effect of a patient treatment regimen, as discussed
  further herein. The phrases "adjunctive administration", "adjunctively administering" or
  "administering adjunctive to" are used interchangeably herein to mean administering a
  PF4-interacting heparinoid in therapeutically effective temporal proximity to the
  treatment regimen that has a myelosuppressive side effect. By adjunctively administering
  a PF4-interacting heparinoid to patients receiving treatment regimens having a
  myelosuppressive side effect, either alone or in combination with other adjunctive
                                               -10-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  agent(s) or therapy, Applicant has discovered that it is possible to attenuate the
  myelosuppressive side effect(s) of such treatment regimens.
  [00381 PF4-interacting heparinoids suitable for use in the methods are described below in
  Section 5.6. In an exemplary embodiment, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is ODSH.
  Suitable modes of administration and dosing regimens are described further below, in
  Section 5.8. Effective dosages, and therapeutically effective amounts, of PF4-interacting
  heparinoid are described further below, in Section 5.9.
                  5.1.1.  Treatment regimens with myelosuppressive side effects
  [00391 As used herein, a myelosuppressive side effect is the occurrence of
  thrombocytopenia and/or neutropenia. Thus, in various embodiments, the treatment
  regimen, as a side effect, causes patients to develop thrombocytopenia (low platelet
  count), neutropenia (low neutrophil count), or a combination of thrombocytopenia and
  neutropenia. Such patient treatment regimens are also referred to herein as
  myelosuppressive treatment regimens.
  [00401 In certain embodiments, the treatment regimen causes thrombocytopenia. In
  various embodiments, the treatment regimen causes platelet counts in blood to be less
  than about 150,000 platelets per pl of blood. In particular embodiments, the treatment
  regimen causes the patient to have platelet counts ranging from about 150,000 to about
  75,000 platelets per pl of blood, corresponding to mild or grade 1 thrombocytopenia;
  platelet counts ranging from less than about 75,000 to about 50,000 platelets per pl of
  blood, corresponding to moderate or grade 2 thrombocytopenia; platelet counts ranging
  from less than about 50,000 to about 25,000 platelets per pl of blood, corresponding to
  severe or grade 3 thrombocytopenia; and platelet counts of less than about 25,000
  platelets per gl of blood, corresponding to life-threatening or grade 4 thrombocytopenia.
  Thus, in a variety of embodiments, the patient treatment regimen induces, as a side effect,
  mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening thrombocytopenia.
  [0041] In certain embodiments, the treatment regimen causes neutropenia. In various
  embodiments, the treatment regimen causes patients to have absolute neutrophil counts in
  blood of less than about 2000 neutrophils per pL of blood. In particular embodiments, the
  treatment regimen causes the patient to have neutrophil counts ranging from about 2000
  to about 1500 neutrophils per pl of blood, corresponding to mild or grade 1 neutropenia;
                                               -11-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  absolute neutrophil counts ranging from less than about 1500 to about 1000 neutrophils
  per pl of blood, corresponding to moderate or grade 2 neutropenia; absolute neutrophil
  counts ranging from less than about 1000 to about 500 neutrophils per pl of blood,
  corresponding to severe or grade 3 neutropenia; and absolute neutrophil counts of less
  than about 500 neutrophils per pl of blood, corresponding to life-threatening or grade 4
  neutropenia. Thus, in a variety of embodiments, the patient treatment regimen induces, as
  a side effect, mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening neutropenia.
  [00421 In a variety of embodiments, the patient treatment regimen is an antineoplastic
  treatment regimen. In certain embodiments, the antineoplastic treatment regimen is
  chemotherapy. In certain embodiments, the antineoplastic treatment regimen is radiation
  therapy.
  [0043] In chemotherapy embodiments, the patient treatment regimen includes
  administration of one or more chemotherapeutic agent(s).
  [0044] In exemplary embodiments, at least one of the one or more chemotherapeutic
  agents is selected from the group consisting of: folate antagonists, including
  methotrexate and pemetrexed; purine antagonists, including cladribine, clofarabine,
  fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, nelarabine, pentostatin; pyrimidine antagonists, including
  capecitabine, cytarabine, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, hydroxyurea; biologic response
  modifiers, including interferon-alfa; bleomycin; DNA alkylating agents, including
  nitrosureas, carmustine, lomustine; DNA cross-linking drugs and alkylating agents,
  including bendamustine, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine
  (nitrogen mustard), melphalan, dacarbazine, temozolomide, procarbazine; asparaginase;
  antibiotics, including mitomycin; platinum complexes, including carboplatin, cisplatin,
  oxaliplatin; proteosome inhibitors, including bortezomib; spindle poisons, such as the
  taxanes (including docetaxel, paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane*)) and the vincas
  (including vinblastine, vincristine, vinorelbine); topoisomerase inhibitors, such as the
  anthracyclines (including daunorubicin, daunomycin, doxorubicin, epirubicin), the
  camptothecines, (including irinotecan, topotecan), the podophyllotoxins (including
  etoposide, teniposide and mitoxantrone); tyrosine kinase inhibitors, (including erlotinib
  (Tarceva), gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, pazopanib, sorafenib, sunitinib); and ifosfamide.
  [0045] In various embodiments, one or more other chemotherapeutic agents are used.
                                                -12-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0046] In certain exemplary embodiments, the myelosuppresive chemotherapeutic
  treatment regimen includes administration of a taxane, such as docetaxel, or a taxol, such
  as paclitaxel (e.g., nab-paclitaxel, Abraxane*) in combination with one or more additional
  chemotherapeutic agent(s), including but not limited to any of the agents described above.
  In some embodiments, the patient treatment regimen includes administration of a taxane,
  such as docetaxel, or a taxol, such as paclitaxel (e.g., nab-paclitaxel, Abraxane*) in
  combination with one or more of a folate, purine, or pyrimidine antagonist, a DNA
  alkylating agent, a platinum complex, a vinca, an anthracycline, a camptothecine, a
  podophyllotoxin, and/or a tyrosine kinse inhibitor. In specific embodiments, the patient
  treatment regimen includes administration of a taxane, such as docetaxel, paclitaxel (e.g.,
  nab-paclitaxel, Abraxane*) in combination with one or more agent selected from:
  gemcitabine, vinorelbine, carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, temozolomide, and
  mifepristone. In exemplary embodiments, two or more chemotherapeutic agents are
  administered, the two or more chemotherapeutic agents selected from: cisplatin and
  etoposide; carboplatin and etoposide; cisplatin and irinotecan; carboplatin and irinotecan;
  cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), and vincristine; cyclophosphamide/
  doxorubicin/vincristine (known as the CAV regimen); gemcitabine with vinorelbine or
  paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane@); gemcitabine or capecitabine with oxaliplatin;
  cisplatin or carboplatin plus another chemotherapeutic agent; 5-fluorouracil with one or
  more of leuvocorin, oxaliplatin, irinotecan.
  [00471 The myelosuppressive patient treatment regimen, in various embodiments,
  comprises administration of chemotherapeutic agents according to specific named
  regimens. In exemplary embodiments, the patient chemotherapy treatment regimen
  includes one or more of the following specific regimens: 5FU Mayo, 5FU Roswell Park,
  LVFU2, FOLFOX4, FOLFOX6, bFOL, FUFOX, IFL, XELOX, XELIRI, and CAPIRI,
  which are described in further detail in Chau et al., 2009, Br. J. Cancer 100:1704-19; and
  Field et al., 2007, WorldJ.Gastroenterol.13:3806-15, both of which are incorporated
  herein by reference. Another specific named regimen is CHOP, combining
  cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin (or doxorubicin or adriamycin), vincristine (or
  oncovin), and prednisone or prednisolone, generally used to treat patients with non
  Hodgkin's lymphoma. In some embodiments, e.g., where the patient being treated has a
  history of cardiovascular disease, doxorubicin is omitted from the regimen, which is then
                                               -13-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  referred to as COP or CVP. Optionally, the CHOP regimen can be further combined with
  rituximab (Rituxan) and is then referred to as R-CHOP or CHOP-R. Other combinations
  are also possible. Another specific named regimen is ICE, combining chemotherapeutic
  agents ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide. See Habermann, 2012, Hematology 17
  Supply 1:S93-7, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   [0048] Antineoplastic patient treatment regimens that include radiation therapy have also
  been shown to have myelosuppressive side effects, sometimes referred to as radiation
  induced thrombocytopenia and radiation-induced neutropenia. In various radiation
  embodiments, the patient treatment regimen includes radiation therapy selected from
  radiation therapy with x-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, protons, and other sources, external
  beam radiation therapy, and internal radiation therapy, such as brachytherapy.
   [0049] Patient treatment regimens in which one or more antibodies having a cytotoxic
  effect are administered, referred to herein as antibody therapy, may also have
  myelosuppressive side effects that are usefully treated by adjunctive administration of a
  PF4-interacting heparinoid according to the methods described herein. Thus, in certain
  embodiments, the treatment regimen having myelosuppressive side effects comprises
  antibody therapy. In some embodiments, the antibody therapy includes one or more
  antibodies conjugated to a toxin, where the antibody binds to and/or is internalized by a
  target tumor cell and the toxin kills the cell. In exemplary embodiments, the patient
  treatment regimen includes administration of one or more antibodies having a
  myelosuppressive side effect, such as abciximab (ReoPro), rituximab (Rituxan),
  trastuzumab (Herceptin) conjugated to mertansine (T-DM1), and infliximab (Remicade).
  In some embodiments, the patient treatment regimen includes administration of one or
  more of the following: trastuzumab (Herceptin), cetuximab, bevacizumab (Avastin),
  tigatuzumab.
  [0050] In various embodiments, patient treatment regimens that have myelosuppressive
  side effects, and that are usefully treated by adjunctive administration of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid according to the methods described herein, include combinations of
  chemotherapy, radiation therapy and/or antibody therapy. In some embodiments, the
  patient treatment regimen comprises chemotherapy, e.g. with one or more of the agents
  described herein, and radiation therapy; or chemotherapy, e.g. with one or more of the
                                                 -14-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  agents described herein, and antibody therapy, e.g. with one or more of the antibodies
  described herein; radiation therapy and antibody therapy, e.g., with one or more of the
  antibodies described herein; or any two, three, four, five or more agents or therapies
  described herein. In exemplary embodiments, such as where the patient has non
  Hodgkin's lymphoma, the patient treatment regimen comprises antibody therapy with
  rituxan and chemotherapy with CHOP (also referred to as R-CHOP), COP, CVP, or ICE
  (also referred to as R-ICE) regimen. See Habermann, 2012, Hematology
   17 Suppi 1:S93-97.
   [0051] Patient treatment regimens involving transplantation, such as bone marrow
  transplant or stem cell transplant, may also have myelosuppressive side effects. Thus, in
  some embodiments, the patient treatment regimen comprises an autologous or allogeneic
  bone marrow or stem cell transplant.
   [0052] In a variety of embodiments, the patient treatment regimens include regimens in
  which one or more agents with thrombocytopenic side effects are administered. In
  exemplary embodiments, the one or more agent with a thrombocytopenic side effect is
  selected from: valproic acid, proton pump inhibitors, interferon (e.g. interferon-alpha),
  isotretinoin, panobinostat, thiazide diurectics, montelukast sodium (Singulair), quinidine,
  quinine, gold, sulfonamides, cephalothin, phenylbutazone, diphenylhydantoin, digitoxin
  and phenothiazine tranquilizers, and heparin.
   [0053] In various embodiments, the patient treatment regimens include regimens in
  which one or more agents with neutropenic side effects are administered. In exemplary
  embodiments, the one or more agent with a neutropenic side effect is selected from:
  cyclophosphamide, psychotropic drugs and anticonvulsants such as clozapine and
  olanzapine, thionamides, ticlopidine, carbimazole, dapsone, dipyrone, methimazole,
  penicillin G, procainamide, propylthiouracil, trimethoprim, chloramphenicol, penicillins,
  cephalosporins, aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, nitroimidazoles, nitrofurantoin,
  flucytosine, rifampin, isoniazid, ethambutol, dapsone, sulfonamide antibiotics,
  clomiprimine, thiacetazone, dipyrone, sulfasalazine, mesalazine, ciprofloxacin,
  chloroquin, mebendazole, terbendafine, pyrimethamine, levamisole, ristocetin,
  griseofulvin, phenothiazines, benzodiazepines, amoxapine, meprobamate, barbiturates,
  risperidone, imipramine, desipramine, thiothixene, haloperidol, valproic acid, hydantoins,
                                               -15-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  succinimides, trimethadione, carbamazepine, procainamide, quinidine, propafenone,
  captopril, propranolol, hydralazine, methyldopa, ibuprofen, indomethacin, sulindac,
  tolmetin, aspirin, aminopyine, phenylbutazone, diflunisal, benoxaprofen, allopurinol,
  colchicine, propylthiouracil, thiouracil, methimazole, carbimazole, thiocyanate, potassium
  perchlorate, cimetidine, ranatadine, tripelennamine, methaphenilene, thenalidine,
  mianserin, bromopheneramine, quinine, hydroxychloroquin, quinacrine, 'diazoxide,
  dihydropyridines, vesnarinone, aprindine, imipenem/cilastatin, zidovudine, fludarabine,
  acyclovir, turbinafine, aminoglutethimide, famotidine, bezafibrate, flutamide, tamoxafen,
  penicillamine, retinoic acid, metoclopramide, phenindone, dinitrophenol, ethacrynic acid,
  rauwolfia, ethanol, chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, thiazides, spironolactone,
  methazolamide, acetazolamide, levodopa and combinations thereof. See, Oyesanme et
  al., 1999, Psychosomatics, 40:5 at p.4 1 4 421; the disclosure of which is incorporated
  herein by reference.
  [0054] In certain embodiments, the myelosuppressive patient treatment regimen
  comprises one or more regimens suitable for the treatment of subjects diagnosed with
  acute myelogenous or myeloid leukemia ("AML"). Treatment regimens for AML
  typically consist of two phases, an initial phase intended to induce remission, referred to
  as the induction phase, and a second phase intended to prevent recurrence or relapse,
  referred to as the consolidation phase. Treatments administered during the induction
  phase are referred to as induction treatment regimens and treatments administered during
  the consolidation phase are referred to as consolidation treatment regimens. Standard
  induction treatment regimens include chemotherapy, referred to as induction
  chemotherapy, and are known in the art. In an exemplary embodiment of induction
  chemotherapy, the chemotherapy regimen consists of treatment with cytarabine (araC)
  administered intravenously for 7 consecutive days and an anthracycline agent (e.g.,
  daunorubicin or idarubicin) administered on 3 consecutive days. See Tallman, 2005,
  Hematology 2005:143-150; Robak et al., 2009, Clin. Therap. 31:2349-70. Consolidation
  treatment regimens can comprise chemotherapy, immunotherapy, bone marrow
  transplant, or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, consolidation chemotherapy
  consists of one or more cycles of the same chemotherapy regimen used during the
  induction phase. In other embodiments, consolidation chemotherapy consists of one or
  more cycles of high dose chemotherapy. Exemplary embodiments of consolidation
                                               -16-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  chemotherapy include two, three, four, five, or more cycles of treatment with cytarabine
  and an anthracycline regimen as described above. In some embodiments, the
  consolidation chemotherapeutic regimen comprises a higher dose of the chemotherapeutic
  agent or agents administered during the induction phase. The consolidation phase can
  also comprise immunotherapy with one or more agents such as, but not limited to,
  histamine dihydrochloride and interleukin-2. In certain embodiments, the consolidation
  treatment regimen comprises an allogeneic stem cell transplant. In various embodiments,
  a PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered adjunctively to an induction and/or
  consolidation treatment regimen. In an exemplary embodiment, ODSH is administered
  adjunctively to an induction and/or consolidation treatment regimen.
                   5.1.2. Treatment subjects
  [0055] The subject to be treated (used interchangeably herein with "patient") may be any
  animal, for example a mammal, preferably a human. In certain embodiments, the subject
  is an adult. In certain embodiments, the subject is a child, for example a child diagnosed
  with a pediatric cancer.
  [0056] In some embodiments, suitable subjects are patients diagnosed with cancer, and in
  need of an antineoplastic or cytotoxic treatment regimen. The cancer can be a solid tumor
  cancer in any organ or tissue, including pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, uterine cancer,
  breast cancer, including metastatic breast cancer and chemotherapy-resistant breast cancer
  (e.g., breast cancer that recurs as a relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy
  with or without an anthracycline), head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, urothelial
  cancer, lung cancer (including non-small cell lung cancer), colorectal cancer, gastric
  cancer, esophageal cancer, neuroblastoma, liver cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer,
  osteosarcoma , and can be a hematologic cancer, such as lymphoma (including recurrent,
  Hodgkin's, and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas), and leukemia (including acute myelogenous
  leukemia, or AML, and pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia).
  [0057] The methods described herein are particularly useful for cancers in which PF4
  levels are elevated either in platelets or in the blood. Thus, in some embodiments, the
  subject has been diagnosed with a cancer in which PF4 levels are elevated either in
  platelets or in the blood. In certain embodiments, the cancer is pancreatic cancer,
                                                 -17-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  colorectal cancer, osteosarcoma or leukemia (including acute myelogenous leukemia and
  pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia).
  [0058] Suitable subjects for treatment also include subjects suffering from a disease or
  condition for which the recommended treatment regimen has a myelosuppressive side
  effect, including any of the treatment regimens described above in Section 5.1.1.
  [00591 In various embodiments, the suitable subject is a subject having an elevated level
  of PF4 in blood or in platelets, including various cancers above-described and non
  cancerous conditions with elevated levels of PF4 in blood or in platelets, a subject with an
  autoimmune disease that can be treated with a treatment regimen including one or more
  agents having a myelosuppressive side effect, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus
  erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, inflammatory bowel
  disease, or a subject having decreased thrombopoietin levels, such as patients with liver
  cancer, viral hepatitis, cirrhosis, or impaired liver function.
  [00601 In various embodiments, the suitable subject is a subject who does not have
  immune-mediated thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenia due to an autoimmune condition,
  thrombocytopenia caused by increased destruction of platelets, or heparin-induced
  thrombocytopenia.
  [00611 In embodiments in which the PF4-interacting heparin is partially desulfated, such
  as 2-0, 3-0 desulfated heparin, there is a reduced risk of heparin-induced
  thrombocytopenia, even when administered in combination with heparin (unfractionated
  heparin or low molecular weight heparin) as an anticoagulant agent. See U.S. Pat.
  No. 7,468,358. Consequently, in some embodiments, the patient may be a subject who
  has antibodies against heparin-PF4 complex and is at risk of heparin-induced
  thrombocytopenia.
                  5.1.3. Other adjunctive agents and therapy
  [0062] The PF4-interacting heparinoid can be administered either as a sole agent
  adjunctive to a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect, or in
  combination with one or more additional agents or therapies.
  [0063] Thus, in various embodiments, the methods further comprise adjunctive
  administration of one or more additional agents or therapies that are also capable of
                                                -18-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
  attenuating thrombocytopenia and/or promoting thrombopoiesis, attenuating neutropenia
  and/or promoting granulopoiesis. In certain embodiments, the methods further comprise
  adjunctive administration of an anti-coagulating heparinoid. In some embodiments, two
  or more such agents and/or therapies are administered. The two or more such agents can
  have the same activity (e.g., anti-thrombocytopenic), different activity (e.g., a first agent
  is pro-thrombopoietic and a second agent is anti-neutropenic), or overlapping activity
  (e.g., a first agent is pro-granulopoietic and anticoagulant and a second agent is anti
  coagulant).
  [0064] Suitable additional therapies or agents to attenuate thrombocytopenia and/or
  promote thrombopoiesis include agents or therapies that act to increase platelet count.
  Thus, in some embodiments, the one or more additional agent or therapy is selected from
  platelet transfusion, splenectomy, corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone and dexamethasone),
  platelet clearance inhibitors (e.g., danazol), thrombopoeitin, thrombopoietin mimetics
  (e.g., Nplate@, eltrombopag (Promacta@)), thrombopoietin receptor agonists (e.g.,
  romiplostim and eltrombopag), interleukins, e.g. recombinant human interleukins
  (including interleukin-1, interleukin-3, interleukin-6, interleukin-1 1 (e.g., Numega@)),
  lithium carbonate, and folate.
  [0065] Suitable additional therapies or agents to attenuate neutropenia and/or promote
  granulopoiesis include agents that act to increase neutrophil count. Thus, in some
  embodiments, the one or more additional agent or therapy is selected from recombinant
  human granulocyte colony stimulating factor ("G-CSF") (filgrastim (Neupogen),
  pegfilgrastim (Neulasta)), and recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony
  stimulating factor ("GM-CSF") (sargramostim (Leukine)).
  [0066] In some clinical presentations, the patient may benefit from anti-coagulation
  therapy. Thus, in some embodiments, the methods comprise administering PF4
  interacting heparinoid in combination with one or more anti-coagulating agents, such as
  one or more anti-coagulant heparinoids, preferably in such amounts, or in such ratios, as
  to provide anticoagulation without risk of inducing or triggering heparin-induced
  thrombocytopenia. In exemplary embodiments, anti-coagulation agents are selected from
  heparins, such as unfractionated heparin, and low molecular weight heparins, such as
  dalteparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, reviparin, and tinzaperin. Generally, the PF4
                                                -19-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  interacting heparinoid and the anti-coagulant are administered in ratios in which the molar
  or weight amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid exceeds the molar or weight amount of
  anti-coagulant. In some embodiments, molar ratios of PF4-interacting heparinoid to
  anticoagulant heparin range from about 1:2 to about 10:1. Equivalent weight ratios are
  also contemplated. In some embodiments, weight ratios of PF4-interacting heparinoid to
  anticoagulant heparin range about 1:1 to about 4:1.
  [0067] In various embodiments, the one or more additional adjunctive agents or therapies
  is administered concurrently, sequentially, or separately with PF4-interacting heparinoid.
  In some embodiments, the one or more additional agents or therapies is administered both
  concurrently and sequentially with PF4-interacting heparinoid.
          5.2.    Method of promoting thrombopoiesis
  [00681 It has now been discovered that PF4-interacting heparinoids can increase platelet
  counts in human patients. As described in Example 3 below, patients treated with ODSH
  had increased platelet counts at the end of a first 4 week cycle of a chemotherapy regimen
  for pancreatic cancer that has a substantial myelosuppressive side effect. This effect
  continued through successive cycles, with patients showing platelet counts above levels
  seen at screening (i.e., prior to treatment with ODSH), after two, three, or even four
  cycles of adjunctive administration of ODSH and the chemotherapy treatment regimen.
  Thus, in another aspect, methods for promoting thrombopoiesis in a subject are provided.
  The methods comprise administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid
  to the subject. PF4-interacting heparinoids for use in the methods are described below in
  Section 5.6. In an exemplary embodiment, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is ODSH.
  Suitable modes of administration and dosing regimens are described further below, in
  Section 5.8. Effective dosages, and therapeutically effective amounts, of PF4-interacting
  heparinoid are described further below, in Section 5.9.
  [0069] The method can be carried out in a thrombocytopenic subject or a non
  thrombocytopenic subject.
  [0070] In embodiments in which the subject is thrombocytopenic, the thrombocytopenia
  can be of varying etiology. Thus, in various embodiments, the thrombocytopenia is (1)
  thrombocytopenia caused by a treatment regimen with a myelosuppressive side effect, as
  described above in Section 5.1.1, and the subjects may include those described above in
                                               -20-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  Section 5.1.2, (2) thrombocytopenia caused by impaired production of platelets by the
  bone marrow, (3) thrombocytopenia caused by platelet sequestration in the spleen
  (splenomegaly), or (4) thrombocytopenia caused by increased destruction of platelets in
  the peripheral circulation, optionally due to an autoimmune condition.
   [00711 In various embodiments, the subject's platelet count is reduced as a result of
  and, optionally, thrombocytopenia caused by - a disease or condition. Accordingly, in
  certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from an infection. In some embodiments,
  the infection results in sepsis, with or without disseminated intravascular coagulation. In
  some embodiments, subjects have elevated plasma levels of PF4, for example, more than
  about 5 ng/ml, more than about 6 ng/ml, more than about 7 ng/ml, more than about 8
  ng/ml, more than about 9 ng/ml, more than about 10 ng/ml, more than about 11 ng/ml,
  more than about 12 ng/ml, more than about 15 ng/ml, more than about 17 ng/ml, more
  than about 20 ng/ml, more than about 22 ng/ml, more than about 25 ng/ml, more than
  about 27 ng/ml, more than about 30 ng/ml, more than about 40 ng/ml, up to about 45
  ng/ml, up to about 50 ng/ml or greater. Lorenz et al., 1988, Infection 16(5):273-6 and
  PF4 assay therein. In some embodiments, the subjects have thrombocytopenia that is not
  heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
   [00721 In exemplary embodiments, the thrombocytopenia is selected from radiation
  induced thrombocytopenia; drug-induced thrombocytopenia; consumption
  thrombocytopenia; immune-mediated thrombocytopenia, including alloimmune
  thrombocytopenia and auto-immune thrombocytopenia, including immune
  thrombocytopenic purpura (or ITP); infectious cyclic thrombocytopenia; myelophthisic
  thrombocytopenia caused by neoplastic invasion of the bone marrow; surface-induced
  thrombocytopenia; vaccine-induced thrombocytopenia; liver, bone marrow or stem cell
  transplant-induced thrombocytopenia; and thrombocytopenia attendant to autoimmune
  disease (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus) or lymphoproliferative
  disorder (e.g., chronic lymphocytic leukemia). In some embodiments, the
  thrombocytopenia is not or is other than: immune-mediated thrombocytopenia,
  thrombocytopenia due to an autoimmune condition or thrombocytopenia caused by
  increased destruction of platelets. In some embodiments, the thrombocytopenia is other
  than heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
                                                -21-

WO 2013/169355                                                                PCT/US2013/031053
   [0073] In various embodiments, the methods of promoting thrombopoiesis are useful for
  treating a subject who has radiation-induced thrombocytopenia caused by radiation
  therapy or by non-therapeutic exposure to ionizing radiation, for example a subject who
  has radiation poisoning or radiation sickness as a result of a radiological or nuclear
  accident or attack.
   [00741 In various embodiments, suitable subjects include patients who would benefit
  from an increased platelet count, such as in advance of surgery, transfusion, therapy with
  a treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect, or other procedure or
  treatment that could lower platelet count or increase the need for clotting. In exemplary
  embodiments, the subject is diagnosed with cancer, and/or is in need of surgery,
  transfusion, or therapy with a treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect.
  In some embodiments, the subject is at risk for radiation-induced thrombocytopenia due
  to radiation therapy or non-therapeutic exposure to ionizing radiation, for example as a
  result of a radiological or nuclear accident or attack.
                  5.2.1.  Additional agents and therapy
   [0075] In methods of promoting thrombopoiesis, the PF4-interacting heparinoid can be
  administered either as a sole agent or in adjunctive combination with one or more
  additional agents or therapies. In some embodiments, the one or more additional agents
  or therapy is capable of promoting thrombopoiesis. In various embodiments, the one or
  more additional agents or therapy is anti-coagulating.
  [0076] Suitable additional therapies or agents to promote thrombopoiesis include agents
  or therapies that act to increase platelet count. In exemplary embodiments, the one or
  more additional agents or therapy is selected from platelet transfusion, splenectomy,
  corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone and dexamethasone), platelet clearance inhibitors (e.g.,
  danazol), thrombopoeitin, thrombopoietin mimics, thrombopoietin receptor agonists (e.g.
  romiplostim and eltrombopag), interleukins, e.g. recombinant human interleukins
  (including interleukin-1, interleukin-3, interleukin-6, interleukin- 11), lithium carbonate,
  and folate. Other additional agents and therapy are described in Section 5.1.3.
  [0077] In some clinical presentations, the patient may need anti-coagulation therapy,
  despite requiring thrombopoiesis. Thus, in some embodiments, the PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is administered adjunctive to one or more anti-coagulating agents, preferably
                                                -22-

WO 2013/169355                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
  without risk of inducing or triggering heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Anti
  coagulation agents include heparins, such as unfractionated heparin, and low molecular
  weight heparins, such as dalteparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, reviparin, tinzaperin.
  Generally, the PF4-interacting heparinoid and the anti-coagulant can be administered in
  ratios in which the amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid exceeds the amount of anti
  coagulant. Molar ratios of PF4-interacting heparinoid to anticoagulant heparin range
  from about 1:2 to about 10:1. Equivalent weight ratios are also contemplated.
           5.3.   Method of promoting neutrophil production
  [0078] It has now been discovered that PF4-interacting heparinoids can increase
  neutrophil counts in human patients. As further described in Example 3 below, patients
  treated with ODSH had increased neutrophil counts at the end of a first 4 week cycle of
  chemotherapy, despite receiving concurrent treatment with a chemotherapeutic regimen
  having myelosuppressive side effects, and consistently showed increased neutrophil
  counts at the end of successive 4-week cycles relative to neutrophil counts mid-cycle. In
  some instances, patients showed neutrophil counts above levels seen at screening (i.e.,
  prior to treatment with ODSH), after two, three, or even four cycles of adjunctive
  administration of ODSH and the chemotherapy treatment regimen. Thus, in another
  aspect, methods for promoting neutrophil production in a subject are presented. The
  methods comprise administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid, as
  described further in Section 5.6 below, to the subject. In an exemplary embodiment, the
  PF4-interacting heparinoid is ODSH. Suitable modes of administration and dosing
  regimens are described further below, in Section 5.8. Effective dosages, and
  therapeutically effective amounts, of PF4-interacting heparinoid are described further
  below, in Section 5.9.
  [0079] The method can be carried out in a neutropenic subject or a non-neutropenic
  subject. The subject can be an adult or a child. In various embodiments, the subjects
  include those described above at Section 5.1.2.
  [0080] In embodiments in which the subject to be treated is neutropenic, the neutropenia
  may be chronic or acute. In various embodiments, the neutropenia is congenital (e.g.,
  caused by Kostmann's Syndrome), cyclical or idiopathic. In some embodiments, the
  neutropenia is secondary to another condition, such as cancer, viral infection (e.g.,
                                              -23-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)). In some embodiments, the neutropenia
  is autoimmune. In some embodiments, neutropenia is caused by infiltration and
  destruction of bone marrow due to leukemia, myeloma, lymphoma or a metastatic solid
  tumor such as, for example, breast or prostate cancer. In some embodiments, the
  neutropenia is radiation-induced neutropenia, resulting from intentional or non
  therapeutic exposure to ionizing radiation, for example as a result of a radiological or
  nuclear accident or attack.
  [0081] Neutropenia can be a side effect of agents or procedures. Thus, in some
  embodiments, neutropenia is caused by a treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive
  side effect, e.g., chemotherapy, radiation therapy for cancer, bone marrow transplantation
  associated with cancer therapy and as described above in Section 5.1.1.
  [0082] In some embodiments, neutropenia is immune-mediated, including autoimmune or
  alloimmune (e.g., caused by a non-self antigen that stimulates antibody formation and
  causes a hypersensitive reaction).
  [00831 In various embodiments, the methods of promoting neutrophil production are
  useful for treating a subject diagnosed with radiation-induced neutropenia caused by
  radiation therapy or by non-therapeutic exposure to ionizing radiation, for example as a
  result of a radiological or nuclear accident or attack.
  [00841 The methods of promoting neutrophil production are also useful for treating non
  neutropenic subjects. Suitable subjects include those described above in Section 5.1.2.
  Such methods are particularly useful where the subject would benefit from an increased
  neutrophil count. In exemplary embodiments, the subject has been diagnosed with
  cancer, and/or is in need of surgery, or therapy with a treatment regimen having a
  myelosuppressive side effect. In some embodiments, the subject is at risk for radiation
  induced neutropenia due to radiation therapy or non-therapeutic exposure to ionizing
  radiation, for example as a result of a radiological or nuclear accident or attack. In some
  embodiments, the subject is at increased risk of contracting an infection.
                   5.3.1. Additional agents and therapy
  [0085] In the methods of promoting neutrophil production, the PF4-interacting heparinoid
  can be administered either as a sole agent or in adjunctive combination with one or more
                                               -24-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  additional agents or therapies. In some embodiments, the one or more additional agents
  or therapy are capable of promoting neutrophil production. In various embodiments, the
  one or more additional agents or therapies are anti-coagulating.
  [0086] Suitable therapies or agents to promote neutrophil production include agents that
  act to increase absolute neutrophil count. In exemplary embodiments, the one or more
  additional agent is selected from recombinant human granulocyte colony stimulating
  factor ("G-CSF") (filgrastim (Neupogen), pegfilgrastim (Neulasta)) and recombinant
  human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor ("GM-CSF")(sargramostim
  (Leukine)).
  [0087] In some clinical situations, the patient may need anti-coagulation therapy. Thus,
  in some embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered adjunctive to one or
  more anti-coagulating agents, preferably without inducing or triggering heparin-induced
  thrombocytopenia. Anti-coagulation agents for use in such embodiments include, for
  example, heparins, such as unfractionated heparin, and low molecular weight heparin,
  such as dalteparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, reviparin, tinzaperin. In various
  embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid and the anti-coagulant are administered in
  ratios in which the amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid exceeds the amount of anti
  coagulant. Molar ratios of PF4-interacting heparinoid to anticoagulant heparin range
  from about 1:2 to about 10:1. Equivalent weight ratios are also contemplated.
  [0088] Other suitable additional agents and therapies are described in Section 5.1.3
  above.
           5.4.   Method of increasing efficacy of treatment regimens with
                  myelosuppressive side effects
  [0089] Myelosuppressive side effects such as thrombocytopenia and neutropenia that are
  caused by patient treatment regimens can be dose-limiting, limiting either the dose
  amount, the frequency of administration, or both, thereby decreasing the efficacy of the
  patient treatment regimen. Attenuating such myelosuppressive side effects would permit
  the dose amount and/or frequency of treatment to be maintained or increased, which
  should in turn lead to greater efficacy of the patient treatment regimen. As shown in
  Example 3 below, ODSH, a PF4-interacting heparinoid, attenuated the myelosuppressive
  side effects caused by an antineoplastic treatment regimen for pancreatic cancer; in
                                               -25-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  particular, administering ODSH adjunctively with the chemotherapy treatment increased
  both platelet and neutrophil counts above those before treatment. Thus, administration of
  a PF4-interacting heparinoid adjunctively with such a treatment regimen should permit
  the dose amount and/or frequency of treatment to be maintained or increased, thereby
  increasing efficacy of the patient treatment regimen.
   [0090] Consequently, in another aspect, methods for increasing efficacy of a treatment
  regimen with a myelosuppressive effect are provided. The methods comprise
  administering a therapeutically effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to the
  subject patient as an adjunct to the patient treatment regimen having myelosuppressive
  side effect, such as the ICE regimen, without reducing the dose and/or dosage frequency
  of the myelosuppressive patient treatment following a reference treatment administration
  or treatment cycle. In some embodiments, the reference treatment administration or cycle
  is the first treatment administration or treatment cycle. In various embodiments, the
  reference treatment administration or treatment cycle of the patient treatment regimen is
  subsequent to the first treatment administration or treatment cycle.
   [0091] In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a dose higher
  than is typically used for such administration or cycle in the absence of adjunctive
  administration of a PF4-interacting heparinoid.
  [0092] In some embodiments, the methods further comprise determining an initial
  platelet and/or neutrophil count in a sample of blood from a patient.
  [0093] In various embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered in an
  amount that is effective to raise the patient's platelet and/or neutrophil count above a
  prior-determined threshold level. In certain embodiments, the prior-determined threshold
  level is the level below which administration of the patient treatment regimen having a
  myelosuppressive side effect is contraindicated. Suitable modes of administration and
  dosing regimens are described further below, in Section 5.8. Effective dosages, and
  therapeutically effective amounts, of PF4-interacting heparinoid are described further
  below, in Section 5.9.
  [0094] In certain embodiments, the methods comprise determining an initial platelet
  count in a sample from a patient, and then administering an amount of a PF4-interacting
                                                -26-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  heparinoid effective to raise the patient's platelet count above a threshold level below
  which therapy with a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is
  contraindicated. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  administered sufficient to maintain platelet levels above levels that indicate grade 4 or
  grade 3 thrombocytopenia. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is administered sufficient to maintain platelet levels above levels that indicate
  grade 2 or grade 1 thrombocytopenia. Optionally, the methods can further comprise
  administering adjunctively to the PF4-interacting heparinoid one or more agents or
  therapies that is anti-thrombocytopenic, anti-neutropenic, anticoagulant, or has some
  other therapeutic activity. In some embodiments, the methods comprise a further step of
  administering a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect to the
  patient whose platelet count is above a level that contraindicates such therapy.
  Optionally, the dose amount and/or frequency of the patient treatment regimen can be
  increased.
  [0095] In certain embodiments, the methods comprise determining an initial neutrophil
  count in a blood sample from a patient and administering an amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid effective to raise the patient's neutrophil count above a threshold level below
  which therapy with patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is
  contraindicated. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  administered sufficient to maintain neutrophil levels above levels that indicate of grade 4
  or grade 3 neutropenia, i.e., above about 1000 neutrophils/pl of blood and above about
  500 neutrophils/pl of blood. In various embodiments, an amount of a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is administered sufficient to maintain neutrophil levels above levels that
  indicate of grade 2 or grade 1 neutropenia. Optionally, the methods can further comprise
  administering adjunctive to the PF4-interacting heparinoid one or more agents or
  therapies that is anti-neutropenic, anti-thrombocytopenic, anticoagulant, or has some
  other therapeutic activity. In some embodiments, the methods comprise a further step of
  administering a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect to the
  patient whose neutrophil count is above a level that contraindicates such therapy.
  Optionally, the dose amount and/or frequency of the patient treatment regimen can be
  increased.
                                                -27-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
           5.5.   Method of enhancing efficacy of antineoplastic patient treatment
                  regimens
  [0096] It has been discovered that adjunctive administration of ODSH, a PF4-interacting
  heparinoid, enhances the ability of antineoplastic treatment regimens to inhibit tumor
  growth. As shown in Examples 1 and 2 below, adjunctive administration of ODSH
  results in greater inhibition of tumor growth in murine xenograft models of pancreatic and
  ovarian cancer, than administration of either ODSH or a chemotherapeutic treatment
  regimen alone. Thus, in another aspect, methods are provided herein for enhancing the
  efficacy of an antineoplastic treatment regimen. The methods comprise administering a
  therapeutically effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to a subject patient as an
  adjunct to an antineoplastic treatment regimen.
  [0097] Antineoplastic treatment regimens are patient treatment regimens useful in
  treating cancer. Suitable antineoplastic treatment regimens include chemotherapeutic
  treatment regimens (including induction chemotherapy and consolidation chemotherapy),
  antibody treatment regimens, and combinations thereof, as described further in Section
  5.1.1 above.
  [0098] The subject to be treated may be any animal, for example a mammal, preferably a
  human. In certain embodiments, the subject is an adult. In certain embodiments, the
  subject is a child. Subjects to be treated are patients in need of antineoplastic treatment,
  in particular patients suffering from, or diagnosed with, cancer. The cancer can be in any
  organ or tissue, including pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, breast cancer,
  including metastatic breast cancer and chemotherapy-resistant breast cancer (e.g., breast
  cancer that recurs as a relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy with or without
  an anthracycline), head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, urothelial cancer, lung cancer
  (including non-small cell lung cancer), colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, esophageal
  cancer, lymphoma (including recurrent, Hodgkin's, and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas),
  liver cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, osteosarcoma and leukemia (including acute
  myelogenous leukemia and pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia).
   [0099] The methods described herein are particularly useful for cancers in which PF4
  levels are elevated either in platelets or in the blood. Thus, in some embodiments, the
  subject has been diagnosed with a cancer in which PF4 levels are elevated either in
                                                 -28-

WO 2013/169355                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
  platelets or in the blood. In certain embodiments, the cancer is pancreatic cancer,
  colorectal cancer, osteosarcoma or leukemia (including acute myelogenous leukemia and
  pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia).
  [01001 PF4-interacting heparinoids suitable for use in the methods are described below in
  Section 5.6. In an exemplary embodiment, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is ODSH.
  Suitable modes of administration and dosing regimens are described further below, in
  Section 5.8. Effective dosages and therapeutically effective amounts of PF4-interacting
  heparinoid are described further below, in Section 5.9.
           5.6.    PF4-interacting heparinoids
  [0101] The heparinoids for use in the methods described herein are heparinoids that are
  capable of interacting with PF4, and counteracting PF4's ability to suppress production of
  platelets and neutrophils. As used herein, PF4-interacting heparinoids include
  heparinoids which bind PF4 and heparinoids which compete with PF4 for binding to
  progenitor cells in the myeloid cell lineage, e.g., megakaryocytes. A specific assay for
  binding of a heparinoid to PF4 is provided in Joglekar et al., 2012, Thromb Haemost
  107(4):717-725, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. In some
  embodiments, a PF4-interacting heparinoid is a heparinoid that competes for binding to
  PF4 with unfractionated heparin, as determined by a competition assay, see e.g., Stringer
  et al., 1997, J. Bio. Chem. 272(33) 20508-20514, the disclosure of which is incorporated
  by reference herein.
  [01021 PF4-interacting heparinoids are linear glycosaminoglycan polymers made up of
  alternating or repeating iduronic acid and glucosamine units bearing 0-sulfate, N-sulfate,
  and N-acetyl substitutions. Preferably, PF4-interacting heparinoids for use in the
  methods described herein are polymers having an average molecular weight of at least
  about 8 kDa, for example having an average molecular weight ranging from about 8 kDa
  to about 15 kDa. In certain embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids have an
  average molecular weight of greater than about 8 kDa. More preferably, PF4-interacting
  heparinoids for use in the methods described herein have an average molecular weight
  that ranges in size from about 11 kDa to about 13 kDa. Molecular weight of heparinoids
  can be determined by high performance size exclusion chromatography as is known in the
                                               -29-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  art. See, e.g., Lapierre et al., 1996, Glycobiology 6(3):355-366, at page 363; Fryer et al.,
  1997, J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther. 282: 208-219, at page 209.
  [01031 Optionally, the PF4-interacting heparinoid does not cause platelet activation and
  heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), and is therefore useful for treating subjects at
  risk of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, including subjects with antibodies against a
  PF4/heparin complex. Thus, in various embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid
  does not trigger platelet activation that leads to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia;
  platelet activation can be determined using a serotonin release assay, as described in U.S.
  Pat. No. 7,468,358 and Sheridan et al., 1986, Blood 67:27-30. In some embodiments, the
  PF4-interacting heparinoid binds PF4 but is not recognized by anti-heparin-PF4 complex
  antibodies, even when complexed with PF4.
  [01041 In various preferred embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is substantially
  nonanticoagulant. Anti-coagulation activity can be determined using assays known in the
  art, e.g., activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time, anti-Xa clotting
  and amidolytic assays. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,668,118, Example IV; Fryer et al., 1997,
  J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther. 282: 208-219, at page 209; Rao et al., 2010, Am. J. Physiol.
  299:C97-C 110, at page C98; United States Pharmacopeial Convention 1995 (for USP
  anticoagulant assay and amidolytic assay).
  [01051 In typical embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are partially desulfated.
  Preferably, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are substantially desulfated at the 2-0
  position of a-L-iduronic acid (referred to herein as the "2-0 position") and/or desulfated
  at the 3-0 position of D-glucosamine-N-sulfate (6-sulfate) (referred to herein as the "3-0
  position"). In some embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 85%, at
  least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 99% desulfated at the 2-0 position. In some preferred
  embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 99% desulfated at the 2-0
  position. In some embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 85%, at least
  90%, at least 95%, or at least 99% desulfated at the 3-0 position. In some preferred
  embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 99% desulfated at the 3-0
  position. In some embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 85%, at least
  90%, at least 95%, at least 99% desulfated at the 2-0 position and the 3-0 position. In
                                                -30-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  some preferred embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoids are at least 99% desulfated
  at the 2-0 position and the 3-0 position.
  [01061 In typical embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid comprises substantially N
  sulfated and 6-0 sulfated D-glucosamine. In some embodiments, the carboxylates on a
  L-iduronic acid sugars of PF4-interacting heparinoid are substantially intact.
  [01071 An exemplary PF4-interacting heparinoid is substantially 2-0, 3-0 desulfated
  heparin, referred to herein as ODSH. ODSH for use in the above-described methods can
  be prepared from bovine or porcine heparin. In an exemplary method of preparing ODSH
  from porcine heparin, ODSH is synthesized by cold alkaline hydrolysis of USP porcine
  intestinal heparin, which removes the 2-0 and 3-0 sulfates, leaving N- and 6-0 sulfates
  on D-glucosamine sugars and carboxylates on a-L-iduronic acid sugars substantially
  intact. Fryer, A. et al., 1997, J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther. 282: 208-219. Using this method,
  ODSH can be produced with an average molecular weight of about 11.7            0.3 kDa.
  [01081 In contrast to unfractionated heparin, ODSH is substantially non-anticoagulating:
  administered to a subject at a dose that is equivalent to a fully-anticoagulating dose of
  unfractionated heparin, the clotting time measured in an aPTT assay is no greater than 45
  seconds, and typically in the upper range of normal, where normal clotting time ranges
  from about 27 to 35 seconds. By comparison, unfractionated heparin administered to a
  subject at a fully anticoagulant dose causes time to clot to range from about 60 to about
  85 seconds in an aPTT assay. Another measure of ODSH's anticoagulant activity is its
  anti-Xa activity which can be determined in an assay carried out using plasma treated with
  Russell viper venom. In specific examples, ODSH exhibited less than 9 U of
  anticoagulant activity/ mg in the USP anticoagulant assay (e.g., 7 ± 0.3 U), less than 5 U
  of anti-Xa activity/mg (e.g., 1.9 ± 0.1 U/mg) and less than 2 U of anti-Ila activity/mg (e.g.,
   1.2 ± 0.1 U/mg) (compare to unfractionated heparin which has an activity of 165-190
  U/mg in all three assays). See Rao et al., 2010, Am. J. Physiol. 299:C97-C 110, page
  C 101. Whether or not a heparinoid is substantially non-anticoagulating can be
  determined using any of the above assays. Furthermore, ODSH has a low affinity for
  anti-thrombin III (Kd   -  339 pM or 4 mg/ml vs. 1.56 gM or 22 jg/mil for unfractionated
  heparin), consistent with the observed low level of anticoagulant activity, measured as
  described in Rao et al., supra, at page C98.
                                               -31-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [01091 Methods for the preparation of 2-0, 3-0 desulfated heparin may also be found, for
  example, in U.S. Patent nos. 5,668,118, 5,912,237, and 6,489,311, and WO 2009/015183,
  the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety, and in U.S. Patent nos.
  5,296,471, 5,969,100, and 5,808,021.
           5.7.   Pharmaceutical compositions and unit dosage forms
  [0110] In typical embodiments, the PF4-interacting heparinoid will be administered in the
  form of a pharmaceutical formulation or composition. Pharmaceutical compositions,
  suitable for administration to subjects, may optionally include additional active and/or
  therapeutic agents, as is known in the art. See Remington: The Science and Practice of
  Pharmacy, 21" Ed. (2005), Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, incorporated herein by
  reference. The formulations will typically include one or more pharmaceutically
  acceptable carriers, excipients, or diluents. The specific carriers, excipients, and/or
  diluents used will depend on the desired mode of administration.
  [01111 In various embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions is in the form of a
  sterile, non-pyrogenic, fluid composition.
  [0112] The pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated for administration to subjects
  by a variety of routes, including intranasally, by inhalation, intramuscularly,
  intraperitoneally, and parenterally, including intravenously or subcutaneously.
  Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated in volumes and concentrations suitable
  for bolus administration, for continuous infusion, or for subcutaneous administration.
  [01131 Pharmaceutical compositions can be conveniently presented in unit dosage forms
  which contain a predetermined amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid. In various
  embodiments, unit dosage forms of PF4-interacting heparinoid contain 1 mg to 1 g, or 5
  mg to 500 mg of PF4-interacting heparinoid.
           5.8.   Modes of administration
  [01141 PF4-interacting heparinoids can be administered in the methods described herein
  by a variety of routes, as noted above. In presently preferred embodiments, the PF4
  interacting heparinoid is administered intravenously, either as one or more boluses, as a
  continuous infusion, or as one or more boluses followed by continuous infusion.
                                                -32-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0115] In a variety of embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered for a
  period of 1 day to indefinitely, a period of 1 week to 6 months, a period of 3 months to 5
  years, a period of 6 months to 1 or 2 years, or the like. Optionally, PF4-interacting
  heparinoid administration is repeated; for example, in certain embodiments, PF4
  interacting heparinoid is administered once daily, twice daily, three times daily, four
  times daily, five times daily, every two days, every three days, every five days, once a
  week, once every two weeks, once a month, every other month, semi-annually, or
  annually. In certain embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered at regular
  intervals over a period of several weeks, followed by a period of rest, during which no
  PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered. For example, in certain embodiments, PF4
  interacting heparinoid is administered for one, two, three, or more weeks, followed by
  one, two, three, or more weeks without PF4-interacting heparinoid administration. The
  repeated administration can be at the same dose or at a different dose. PF4-interacting
  heparinoid can be administered in one or more bolus injections, one or more infusions, or
  one or more bolus injections followed or preceded by infusion.
  [0116] In embodiments in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered adjunctively
  to a patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive regimen, and/or adjunctively to
  administration of one or more additional agent(s) or .therap(ies) having anti
  thrombocytopenic, pro-thrombopoietic, anti-neutropenic, and/or pro-granulopoietic
  activity, the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered in therapeutically effective
  temporal proximity to the treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect and/or
  additional agent or therapy. Administration of a PF4-interacting heparinoid can be
  concurrent with (at the same time), sequential to (at a different time but on the same day,
  e.g., during the same patient visit), or separate from (on a different day) administration of
  the patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect or other agent or
  therapy. In various embodiments, the adjunctively administered PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is administered concurrently, sequentially, and/or separately from the patient
  treatment regimen having myelosuppressive side effect or other agent or therapy being
  administered. When administered sequentially or separately, PF4-interacting heparinoid
  can be administered before, after, or both before and after the other treatment.
                                                -33-

WO 2013/169355                                                                  PCT/US2013/031053
   [0117] In embodiments in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered adjunctively,
  the PF4-interacting heparinoid can be administrated via the same or different route as the
  other treatment administered in temporal proximity. In various embodiments, PF4
  interacting heparinoid is administered concurrently or sequentially by the same route. For
  example, in certain embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid and other treatment are
  administered intravenously, either concurrently or sequentially. Optionally, as part of a
  treatment regimen, the PF4-interacting heparinoid can further be administered separately
  (on a different day) from the other treatment by a different route, e.g., subcutaneously. In
  specific embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered intravenously on the
  same day, either at the same time (concurrently), a different time (sequentially), or both
  concurrently and sequentially with other treatment, and is also administered
  subcutaneously on one or more days when the patient is not receiving other treatment. In
  various embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered concurrently or
  sequentially by a different route. Optionally, as part of a treatment regimen, the PF4
  interacting heparinoid can further be administered separately (on a different day) from the
  other treatment by the same or different route as that by which the other treatment is
  administered.
   [0118] In one embodiment, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered on days 1, 8, and
   15 of a 28-day chemotherapy cycle as an initial bolus followed by a 48-hour continuous
  infusion. The course of treatment can further include administration of one or more
  chemotherapeutic agents sequentially before or after PF4-interacting heparinoid.
  Optionally, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered subcutaneously on day 21 and/or
  one, several, or all of days 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
  23, 24, 25, 26, and 27.
           5.9.   Effective dosages
  [0119] PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered to the subject in an amount sufficient
  or effective to provide a therapeutic benefit, i.e., a therapeutically effective amount. The
  therapeutically effective amount depends on the therapeutic benefit that is sought - e.g.,
  attenuation of myelosuppressive side effects such as thrombocytopenia and neutropenia,
  and/or promotion of thrombopoiesis, and/or promotion of granulopoiesis, and/or
  enhancement of antineoplastic effect.
                                                  -34-

WO 2013/169355                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
  [01201 In methods in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered to attenuate a
  myelosuppressive side effect of a patient treatment regimen, a myeloprotective amount of
  PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered, that is, an amount sufficient, in typical
  embodiments, to achieve one or more of the following, as compared to historical data on
  the identical patient treatment regimen without adjunctive administration of PF4
  interacting heparinoid:
          (a)      thrombocytopenia is improved by at least one grade (e.g., from grade 4 to
          grade 3, 2, 1, or 0; from grade 3 to grade 2, 1, or 0; from grade 2 to grade 1 or 0;
          or from grade 1 to grade 0);
          (b)      platelet count is increased by at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at
          least 40%, at least 50%, at least 100%, at least 200%;
          (c)      platelet count is increased by at least 5,000, at least 10,000, at least 15,000,
          at least 20,000, at least 25,000, at least 30,000 platelets per pl of blood;
          (d)      neutropenia is improved by at least one grade (e.g., from grade 4 to grade
          3, 2, 1, or 0; from grade 3 to grade 2, 1, or 0; from grade 2 to grade 1 or 0; or from
          grade 1 to grade 0);
          (f)      absolute neutrophil count is increased by at least 10%, at least 20%, at
          least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 100%, at least 200%;
          (d)      absolute neutrophil count has increased by at least 500, at least 1000, at
          least 1500, at least 2000, at least 2500, at least 3000 neutrophils per ptl of blood.
  [0121] In particular embodiments, an amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  administered sufficient to achieve one or more of the above-described effects as
  compared to pre-treatment levels.
  [0122] In methods in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered to promote
  thrombopoiesis, a thrombopoietically-effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid is,
  in typical embodiments, an amount effective to cause a measureable rise a subject's
  platelet count as compared to pre-treatment levels.
  [0123] In methods in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered to promote
  neutrophil production, a granulopoietically-effective amount of a PF4-interacting
                                                 -35-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
  heparinoid is, in typical embodiments, an amount effective to cause a measureable rise a
  subject's absolute neutrophil count as compared to pre-treatment levels.
   [0124] In methods in which PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered to enhance.
  efficacy of an antineoplastic treatment regimen, a therapeutically effective amount of a
  PF4-interacting heparinoid is an amount effective or sufficient to provide a therapeutic
  benefit. In the context of enhancing the efficacy of an antineoplastic treatment regimen,
  in various embodiments, a therapeutic benefit is achievement of one or more of the
  following: halting or slowing the growth of tumors, reducing the size and/or number of
  tumors within a patient, increasing life expectancy, reduction in constitutional side effects
  of the antineoplastic treatment (e.g., weight loss, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting,
  fatigue), permitting reduction in dosage or frequency of dosage of the antineoplastic
  treatment regimen without reduced efficacy, and/or improving patient quality of life. A
  complete cure, while desirable, is not required for therapeutic benefit to exist. In some
  contexts, a therapeutic benefit can be correlated with one or more surrogate end points, in
  accordance with the knowledge of one of ordinary skill in the art. By way of example
  and not limitation, enhancing the efficacy of an antineoplastic treatment regimen can be
  measured in vivo. Exemplary in vivo assays for measuring tumor growth inhibition are
  described below for two different cancers and two different antineoplastic treatment
  regimens in Examples 1 and 2 below.
   [0125] The amount of PF4-interacting heparinoid administered will depend on various
  factors, including whether the subject is thrombocytopenic and/or neutropenic, the
  severity of any such thrombocytopenia and/or neutropenia, whether PF4-interacting
  heparinoid is being administered adjunctively to a patient treatment regimen, and the age
  and condition of the subject being treated, among others. The appropriate dosage can be
  readily determined by a person of skill in the art. In practice, a physician will determine
  appropriate dosages to be used. This dosage can be repeated as often as appropriate. The
  amount and/or frequency of the dosage can be altered, increased, or reduced, depending
  on the subject's response and in accordance with standard clinical practice. The proper
  dosage and treatment regimen can be established by monitoring the progress of therapy
  using conventional techniques known to skilled artisans.
                                               -36-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  [0126] In some embodiments, PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered at a dose or
  amount per kilogram of patient body weight ranging from about 1 mg/kg to about
  25 mg/kg for intravenous bolus doses, and from about 0.1 mg/kg/hr to about 2.5 mg/kg/hr
  for intravenous infusions. In a specific embodiment, PF4-interacting heparinoid is
  administered as an intravenous bolus at a dose of about 4 mg/kg, optionally followed by
  an intravenous infusion of PF4-interacting heparinoid at a dose of about 0.375 mg/kg/hr
  for 48 hours. In typical embodiments, a bolus dose is administered over less than a
  minute, about a minute, about 2 minutes, about 3 minutes, about 4 minutes, or about 5
  minutes. For subcutaneous administration, PF4-interacting heparinoid can be
  administered at doses ranging from about 25 mg to about 400 mg, in volumes of 2.0 mL
  or less per injection site.
  [0127] Pharmaceutical compositions of PF4-interacting heparinoid can be formulated in
  an amount that permits bolus intravenous administration and/or continuous intravenous
  infusion at such doses. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises
  PF4-interacting heparinoid in a sterile vial at a concentration of 50 mg/mL. When
  formulated for subcutaneous administration, pharmaceutical compositions can contain
  PF4-interacting heparinoid at a concentration ranging from 50 mg/mi to 350 mg/ml
  suitable for administration at doses ranging from about 25 to about 400 mg, in volumes of
  2.0 mL or less per injection site.
  6.       EXAMPLES
           6.1.   Example 1: ODSH, a PF4-interacting heparinoid, enhances the
                  efficacy of gemcitabine in an in vivo murine xenograft model of human
                   pancreatic cancer and demonstrates antineoplastic effect when
                  administered alone
  [01281 This experiment demonstrates that adjunctive administration of ODSH enhances
  the efficacy of gemcitabine against human pancreatic tumors growing as xenografts in
  athymic nude mice, and demonstrates that ODSH inhibits tumor growth when
  administered alone.
  [0129] Materials & methods. Compounds tested in the experiment were as follows.
  ODSH was made by Pyramid Laboratories, Inc. (Costa Mesa, CA). ODSH was provided
  at a stock concentration of 50 mg/ml and stored at room temperature until use. ODSH
  was diluted in a 0.9% NaCI solution (B. Braun Medical Inc., Irvine, CA) to a
                                               -37-

WO 2013/169355                                                           PCT/US2013/031053
  concentration of 2.4 mg/ml to deliver 24 mg/kg, in a 10 ml/kg dose volume when
  administered intravenously. A concentration of 4.8 mg/ml was formulated to deliver a 24
  mg/kg dose at a 5 ml/kg dose volume when administered subcutaneously. ODSH was
  formulated fresh prior to each dose.
   [0130] The chemotherapeutic agents oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel were
  also tested. Oxaliplatin was manufactured by Sanofi-Aventis (Bridgewater, NJ) and
  diluted in a 0.9% NaCl solution to a concentration of 1 mg/ml to deliver 10 mg/kg, in a 10
  ml/kg dose volume. Gemcitabine was manufactured by Eli Lilly and Co. (Indianapolis,
  IN) and diluted in a 0.9% NaCl solution to a concentration of 8 mg/ml to deliver 80
  mg/kg, in a 10 ml/kg dose volume. Nab-paclitaxel was manufactured by Abraxis
  BioScience LLC (Bridgewater, NJ) and diluted in a 0.9% NaCl solution to a
  concentration of 1.5 mg/ml to deliver 15 mg/kg, in a 10 ml/kg dose volume. All standard
  agent preparations were made fresh prior to their administration.
   [0131] BxPC-3 cells were obtained and prepared as follows. The BxPC-3 pancreas
  tumor cell line was received from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas,
  VA). Cultures were maintained in RPMI 1640 medium (Hyclone, Logan, UT)
  supplemented with 5% fetal bovine serum. The cells were housed in a 5% CO2
  atmosphere. The cultures were expanded in tissue culture flasks at a 1:3 split ratio until a
  sufficient amount of cells were harvested.
  [0132] All experiments were conducted on female athymic nude mice (Hsd:Athymic
  Nude-Foxnlnu) supplied by Harlan (Indianapolis, IN). Mice were received at four weeks
  of age, 12-15 grams in weight, and were acclimated for seven days prior to handling. The
  mice were housed in microisolator cages (Lab Products, Seaford, DE) and maintained
  under specific pathogen-free conditions. All procedures were carried out under
  appropriate institutional guidelines for animal care.
  10133] BxPC-3 Human Pancreas Tumor Xenograft Model: Female athymic nude mice
  per treatment condition were inoculated subcutaneously in the right flank with 0.1 ml of a
  50% RPMI 1640/50% Matrige        TM (BD  Biosciences, Bedford, MA) mixture containing a
  suspension of BxPC-3 tumor cells (approximately 5 x 106 cells/mouse).
                                               -38-

WO 2013/169355                                                          PCT/US2013/031053
   [0134] Seven days following inoculation, tumors were measured using calipers and tumor
  weight was calculated using the animal study management software, Study Director
  V.1.7.54k (Study Log). See Britten CD, et al., "Enhanced antitumor activity of 6
  hydroxymethylacylfulvene in combination with irinotecan and 5-fluorouracil in the HT29
  human colon tumor xenograft model", CancerRes 59:1049-1053, 1999. Eighty mice
  with tumor sizes of 93-172 mg were placed into eight groups of ten mice by random
  equilibration (Day 1). Body weights were recorded when the mice were randomized and
  were taken twice weekly thereafter in conjunction with tumor measurements, on each of
  Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, 26, 30, 33, and 36.
  [0135] ODSH, vehicle control (0.9% NaCl solution, referred to as saline), oxaliplatin,
  gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel were administered according to the dosing regimen
  described in Table 1. The study was terminated when the vehicle control reached an
  endpoint of 1500 mg, on Day 36. Table 1, below, provides further details on the eight
  treatment groups.
                                               -39-

  WO 2013/169355                                                                                          PCT/US2013/031053
0
                            000
          o06                                  c1        0
                                                   .0    0~'            .0     .0         .      .
                 00                                  0~00
                                      4-        00                               m0 000     00     0:t
                                             rn0       0                 0       00         00        0
                                         0000                      0>0        *0S           0      0
                 0C                                -0 -0         -                        -.
                   (z   M     0      Cd'     0       O        ,300                                      (    r
               .    0 0         0    0          C ~       ~                 ~
            ro     0                                 00-
                       -E
                                                             00         000 00          14
                                                                                                                 0
                                                             -Cd
                                  00                              .-             CL  '      0
            ~E    0      1>               00             0           0oz0       'fIZ       00('0           100     C'
                                                                                                                 00
                                                                                                                 0

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0136] Treatment for Groups 7 and 8 was ceased on Day 8 due to adverse effects
  resulting from the treatment. The ODSH dosing route was modified from intravenous to
  subcutaneous on Day 12, as a result of tail swelling and bruising. Gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel were introduced into the dosing regimen of Groups 3 and 5 on Day 26.
  [0137] Data and statistical analyses were performed as follows. Mean tumor growth
  inhibition (TGI) was calculated utilizing Formula A below (deaths were not included in
  the TGI calculations). TGI calculations were performed comparing tumor weights of Day
  26 to Day 1, which captures data prior to the addition of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel
  to several groups, and Day 36 (final day of study) to Day 1.
  Formula A:
                                                       ~X TreateDay)    X
                         TGI=[I- TI [Treateoinal)    -                ]100/
                                                                       X
                                         controtFin4 -    cOntrObDayp
  [0138] All statistical analyses in the xenograft study were performed with GraphPad
  Prism v4 software. Differences in Day 26 and 36 tumor weights were confirmed using
  the Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) with the Tukey's Multiple Comparison Test.
  [0139] Results. The antitumor effects of ODSH administered as a single agent or in
  various combinations with one or more of oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel
  were evaluated.
  [0140] The recorded tumor weights for experimental treatment groups 1 through 8 are
  provided below in Tables 2 through 9. See also FIG. 1.
                                                  -41-

    WO 2013/169355                                                                     PCT/US2013/031053
                           .~En
      C             c1           foO -4 k1
                    Fo                0a                                                                 0\o
00
C
00C
                                                                             n7
                        0       --          -             0        :
                               11~ - ~~)\Cg
                             rl-~~~                          ,        -1 -1
              ,00
                                        Cu
                       m  m    r    \o   0         II00               Q
                                     m                                  l 0W
                           W,~             ~          kn ~O'O
                                                      0t        ,     0
                              ~
                             rl-~m tnwON~CD           m     I               '.
                                                       tn CNN  n 00 enei        e
                     -    --       c-         c  -   m t-         IV rN tO- e4
                                                                  eqe4eit,0
                                                                                    -4
                   N      C         knw       - 0    O
                     o~                                                         rI"

WO 2013/169355                                                                                   PCT/US2013/031053
                                        C>   'It)     C)"o
                                                                                                                   CD
                  C=>       00                                             00       a"
               m00
                            00               C0            00
     o-                                ~0             00(O0e
                                                          O -0       -wt
                                                                    00 00
                                             CD
                  r-         -n    'tk         -         W)    kn
                  0\0
                                                                              0o
                0  N    1c,   00 C    - L(N           ',    n     W    -      In
                      000
            nm        Cu    It N             "tOO O -L~-0
                         00                  0O                                        ,
                                                                    epi Cl     I'-R
                         __       0Ctf           C~~CN                 oe4     q    tn    0
                                                                       00,
                                                                    \,                   0
                                -0           -Cl                -   V-C         n      4
                  -~t                -   ,  -     t--                                    CQ0le~e

  WO 2013/169355                                                                        PCT/US2013/031053
0
                      000
                                                                                        000
        00-            CU                      cq0                It<    O
                               -                                               e4
                                  e4  OOCC1O\.9O\  C~q             -
                                                             N "0C14     n  en
                                                                               I
                          CU             a,
                   w      Q
                          -           n             knM                  mt  0
                 CU4                                        \0 C C)F:
                    o                               mU            mC mC              dco
                                     <D 000 \C1     3\C
                                                                                       Cd.
                                 00                                                  0)000
                                        - ~~~0   ic     00-
                                                        -    -~~,~~0\           f
                                                m~      N~C-          "t          -0
                   0                                 w000r
                           -o
                              CU          .2         CU

WO 2013/169355                                                           PCT/US2013/031053
                                                 0     0
                    rl   n m 00                                * 00
         0                                                                                 000
                                                                                           CN
                                                                    " 00
                  CC
                 00     00-k
               00
 000
         00~                   000(
                        0 eq        rl  0O   00  k       0
                  000
                         M   -G      0:      C  D0           n0
                                w I        m  W        m06O
                                                    C.     e
                                                   in
             w
                       ,~O                                    l
                        C>Nk                    %C

WO 2013/169355                                                                                          PCT/US2013/031053
                                                                                                                           cjn
                       0z
                                                                                cn          00            c
                                                                                                      00                   00
          0                                                     0
                                                                                     0000
                                 -l                       V)              '0'
                f       c                                                                                      Cl
                    0\0                                   000
            P-0   .        ..
                          -4           -       -      -       -    -          -        -
                                                    000
                                                                                     (~~e4     en o le        \D
                                    Pr               9                                                         .  ~
                                                                                     e4- C4--         c1- .0 0 ro 0
                                                                       cc                                       +
                                           CD-  - -      - nW        -  -          -     ei -       -    -04         r
                                 .2                                                  Go        t- C40u;
                                                                                                                  00 Q
                                   (~~                           ,cCud
                              o- oo                                                                    rOC
                                                                       - -' -~     -E
                                         kn~                                              m     -:.         r
                                 u~                                                                         a        01111
            0-                                                                                              mC
                                  m      O     C)       Onr-00 00 m                  ro e                         c'

   WO 2013/169355                                                                                                    PCT/US2013/031053
                                                                                                                                       CIO
                                                                                00                                                     0
                                                                                                                                       CD
       -~O                                           t-c Noo        cC                                 4o
                                                                                                  00- 00 00
0
            00-----------------------------------------------------
0
en                                              m      NrOONN"-C
                                                          ink                           I      -w      Zt
                                       00
                           a
                             >                                                                             kn  kn~
                                                                                                  000
                                          000                               l11    I  ~
                              '4-                                                                      00f
                                                CD 00 r-          0 C\ C
                                  0t0n                         00             10m              ~            0A     Z
                                            0~0
               .00
                                                                                                        IV     -V
                                                                                                   000
                                              -       e4 en     qeN   l n         0     ONW4
                                                                  m  rA - m          w    m. - m   .    g

   WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
               0O                                                        t
eq
                                                     (n            C6
                         o                                                                        0C)
                                                                                                  C1
                                                                                                  00
0
               00                                                        I
                           0                                   00
                                                                    kn
                                  r-
                                                      CD~ e4          lC
                            w   ~n00 unC,       0                   t    \
                           01.,          01
                                     000
                                              ~
                                          ~ g--
                                         r-~~     r-     r-       RCi
                            00 m040                    nC
                                -  -        0--   -    -    --
                                                                        ~~(26
                  S 0
                      --
                                                                           ~~72
                             o
                             ~            ~          ~              P p-------------

   WO 2013/169355                                                          PCT/US2013/031053
                      CIA)
                                                                                               C)
00
                   000en6
                                               Fi.    T    PL4     ..    .
                  ok                                                                 -j
                   9o w
                                Cuc                                                    n
                                                                            Cc     +
                                                                                  m00
                             00Z4
                             oo0C1        00                                   a)
                           0  0     0-                     M
                                                                                  C + ~
                                                               000
                             5                            r
                                                                 0
                                                     0CO4  W          )           In c   m 4 i
                                       =:    -     -    ~~Q=           0    C,

WO 2013/169355                                                        PCT/US2013/031053
  [0141] Tables 10 to 13 below show the body weights recorded for treatment groups I to 8
  over the course of the experiment. See also FIG. 3.
                                            -50-

   WO 2013/169355                                                                                                PCT/US2013/031053
                              10                 00             '0          W          00
o1             I               -                 9              9                                                                  0-11
                     t   0-                                                 -     In00cq
             00C               -       lcq~       0-N
             00                        C).       CD~ -      CD'       C,                 a,
00
                          C-i       N)               1l0 0      '.              l        cq
                              00         '0      0 (0                       cq 0
                              Cl       C)            (D         C>          0          '
                                                                                                    CC   C
                    w                D        It              N             mn 00            10            Z
                                0    O C.        NO             C>          C-       C
                                                                                                           C,4
                     '0       '00      CIR      0                   ,       n~      00       '
              t~u      CI     ;I       CD       C4'             CI          CD       C,
                                                                                                             C'4
                         Oo    0              0    0        0             0    0     0         0:
                     -~                                                                            00~00
                          U)  0     CI           00-                  r0    00       '
                                      c0)
                                                                   + CA
                       r                                                                                   +
                                                                   r-O      Cy-q                    (L
                      ,2       2                                                                           a)+
                                                      +         +       tw  +        +      +
                                  0     I   -    0(-            (00         -0S0r         C-     0   "
                                                        .+ C                + 2                     N    u
                  U0       o                  x 0                     .
                              UO0                     00        0(5'              0(0           00
                                                                                                   m
                                                                '0.N00              II       ......

WO 2013/169355                                                                                                      PCT/US2013/031053
                                                                                                       2                              02
                  u                                                                                                                   LO
                      01~                  N     N~'                      C4                               bf
                        ~~~CM          -                                               ,C
    on                         ~0           ~        0~
                                                            r
                                                             00
                                                                 -
                                                                           N
                                                                              -l    1
                                                                                                                  -                   0
             n                                 r-                              -          C
            ot
                              '10                   wl-7
                                C   '  ? -     0                                        0      0
                              0JC     00        ON                                                    ;0-
                                              CM
                                               CM'-                        C
                  QJ~ CMl
                           -,
                                      C)
                                                    ~a
                                                             -0)          r
                                                        rq<            CO
                                  -~~   0   ~~~  M N ~         -            0        0
                                                                    CM              CMX          ~~t
               -0                0       0        0       0    0            N        0    -          ,od
                                                              >~                                                0
                                                                                                     m    00
                                                                                 -t                   4Z 0
                          a                                    -,:         +0           -*'3+              0
                                                                                                              C
                                                    G         0a                                                02.
                           U0                         +~      +o            +        +
                      El,.C                ,           00         0              c:   -*c:        .c
                                                     +        +             +        ++          C7o         O2
                                 0u0                 0          000         0         000         020
                                                     0            0         +00             +        O)
                                              I                      I
                              3.-     M m                                 r-'r       '0      N 0

    WO 2013/169355                                                                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
                                 0~'"                                                                'qenC
000                                              0               O~0'
                            Q~      '          9                                                      m-                                             0
0
                                                               c-3
                        Q             B ONxl          N         '0'0                       00     cq c'
                                    m'         0o               C-r')                     00         7    -
                             c'?    0          '0               r-                         Ox    cn                      0
                   >1 Q   -    x               Ox               r)0C
                                                                                                                         '.
                                                             0~~~c   00            0                                           0
                                                         -~c                   -                 -
                                                                                                                            boZ
                                       -+      '0w                                                               +-            +~
                                          0    -0               C-C                       C')
                                    -     cn                               v)                                              d6
                                   0N          0d                00) +)                                '                            0
                              0)                  -   c-             -                                                   2
                                                                           n6,6
                                                                         -,6,6             ,  '.
                                                                      +-                 +                    +  +
                                            -t      C2                -          -                      w tc-- um"            00-
                                                                                     ttt                               .      .t  5 .5 0
                                   *0                                                        r C)     o       -t    C-
                                            ~~i                                                 0         00                  00
                                  4)Q0       o)      (D                m                                         +x
                             >                      o                0 2"o2.                 0,3         00 C2'
                                                                   <<
                                    Nonk                                                   l           l

  WO 2013/169355                                                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
0
   00                  00      0                                      \          n
              -0C
                                      CD      C>   Cr4C                         t-               ..
        0                                             Int
               e4 o                               4-          ONi c -C-i        cli
                                                                      ~C
                                              ojo 0-        00        0         m
                                                                                                   0)  E
                                                               00
                                r.    0  0                         .0  0    0.0.Om        0.
                            cn       V)           -       on                                      -         m
                                                                                                              c-N
                                                       oc    M
                                                                                      --                          o
                                                                         -/ ------ -----              12,0 00
                                                    c-c
                                                                      0,                            0  X&-'      (D
                    tu  0)       0)          w- m                                           oa    -    Z         0)wtQ
                       bo                                                                           m m~~~ 0~
                               'I  -     D CD kn-                                                                0DrC  : nC
                                                            +         +          +       +
                    0)       00       m 00             00000         m00     "9         000    a)0            x 5
                           >U0          00fz0           ~00           z 00       00      00
                                           I~                                                          bD,
                                                               0)                 +00

WO 2013/169355                                                                     PCT/US2013/031053
  [0142] Efficacy was assessed by comparison of tumor weights at Day 26 and 36 against
  Day 1. Day 26 was chosen to assess data prior to the addition of gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel to groups 3 and 5. Day 36 was assessed as the last day of the study.
  [01431 Tables 14 and 15, below, show the tumor weight and percent tumor growth
  inhibition (%TGI) for all treatment groups relative to Group 1 (the vehicle control group)
  at Day 26 and Day 36. See also FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
                                                   Table 14
                                                             ._Day          26        Day 26
  Group      Treatment'         N          Dose         Schedule      Tumor        % TGI (n)     Deaths
                                                                    Weight (mg)
     1         Vehicle          10           -         BID to end   679.8 ±35.4          -           0
     2          ODSH            10       24 mg/kg      BID to end   616.2 ±50.9         11.5         0
                                                                                      (10/10)
     3        Oxaliplatin       10       10 mg/kg        Wklyx4     635.0 ± 52.3   8.0 (10/10)       0
     4       Gemcitabine        10       80 mg/kg         Q3Dx4     594.7 ±43.8         15.3         0
                                                                                      (10/10)
     5          ODSH            10       24 mg/kg      BID to end   586.6± 48.9         16.7         0
           1 Oxaliplatin                 10 mg/kg        Wklyx4                       (10/10)
     6          ODSH            10       24 mg/kg      BID to end   508.9 ± 47.9        30.7         0
             Gemcitabine                 80 mg/kg         Q3Dx4                       (10/10)
     7        Oxaliplatin       10       10 mg/kg         Day 1     612.4 ± 94.3   15.5 (3/10)       7
             Gemcitabine                 80 mg/kg         Q3Dx3
     8          ODSH            10       24 mg/kg      BID to end         -                         10
              Oxaliplatin                10 mg/kg         Day 1
             Gemcitabine                 80 mg/kg         Q3Dx3
    Treatment administered until Day 26
  2 Total deaths on or before Day
                                   26
                                                   Table 15
                                                                       Day 36      Day 36
    Group         Treatment           n        Dose       Schedule     Tumor       % TGI        Deaths2
                                                                       Weight         (n)
                                                                        (mg)
       1            Vehicle           10        -        BID to end   1524.2±          -           0
                                                                         72.3
       2            ODSH              10    24 mg/kg     BID to end   1270.1±         18.2         0
                                                      1_                 95.5      (10/10)
       3          Oxaliplatin         10    10 mg/kg      2xwklyx4                     -          10
                  Gemcitabine               80 mg/kg        Day
                 nab-paclitaxel             15 mg/kg      26,29,32
                                                            Day
                                                          26,29,32               1            1
       4          Gemcitabine         10    80 mg/kg       Q3Dx4      1288.8 +        16.8         0
                                                                         74.3       (10/10)
                                                     -55-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
                                              Table 15
                                                                 Day 36     Day 36
     Group        Treatment'         n    Dose        Schedule   Tumor      % TGI    Deaths 2
                                                                 Weight        (n)
                                                                  (mg)
       5            ODSH             10 24 mg/kg    BID to end    827.5       51.4      9
                  Oxaliplatin           10 mg/kg     IxWklyx4     (n=1)      (1/10)
                  Gemcitabine           80 mg/kg        Day
                 nab-paclitaxel         15 mg/kg    26,29,32,35
                                                        Day
                                                      26,29,32
       6            ODSH             10 24 mg/kg    BID to end   993.9        37.9      0
                  Gemcitabine           80 mg/kg       Q3Dx4       52.0     (10/10)
       7          Oxaliplatin        10 10 mg/kg       Day 1     1227.7 +     22.5      7
                  Gemcitabine           80 mg/kg     Day 1,4,7    244.7      (3/10)
       8            ODSH             10 24 mg/kg    BID to end      -           -       10
                  Oxaliplatin           10 mg/kg       Day 1
                  Gemcitabine           80 mg/kg     Day 1,4,7 1
    Treatment administered until Day 35
  2 Total deaths on or before Day 36
   [01441 Mean tumor weight in the vehicle control group (Group 1) reached 679.8 mg by
  Day 26 and 1524.2 mg by Day 36. Six of ten tumors demonstrated some level of
  necrosis; however, this is attributed to the normal progression of this tumor xenograft
  model. Tumor necrosis was first observed on Day 30. A maximum weight loss of 3.6%
  was observed at Day 15. The mice recovered their weight by Day 26. Two of ten mice
  demonstrated slightly bruised tails, first observed on Day 11.
  [0145] Mean tumor weight in the group receiving ODSH at 24 mg/kg (Group 2) reached
  616.2 mg by Day 26 and 1270.1 mg by Day 36. This treatment resulted in a TGI of
   11.5% on Day 26 and 18.2% on Day 36, relative to Day 1. No significant difference in
  tumor weight was observed on Day 26 when compared to vehicle control, however by
  Day 36 a significant difference in tumor weight was seen, in Group 2 relative to the
  vehicle control group. Three of ten tumors demonstrated some level of necrosis;
  however, this is attributed to the normal progression of this tumor xenograft model.
  Tumor necrosis was first observed on Day 30. A maximum weight loss of 2.7% was
  reached on Day 11. The mice recovered their weight by Day 22. All ten mice in this
  group demonstrated bruising on the tails or abdomen, at the site of injection. This was
  first observed on Day 8 for the tails and Day 15 for the abdomens. One of the ten mice
  also demonstrated swelling of the tail, first observed on Day 11.
                                                 -56-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  [0146] Oxaliplatin 10 mg/kg or gemcitabine 80 mg/kg, and nab-paclitaxel 15 mg/kg
  (Group 3): The initial regimen of oxaliplatin alone reached a mean tumor weight of 635.0
  mg by Day 26, prior to the addition of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel to the dosing
  regimen. This group produced a TGI of 8.0% on Day 26, when compared to vehicle
  control. No significant difference in tumor weight on Day 26 was observed when
  compared to vehicle control. One mouse exhibited a bruised tail, first observed on Day
   11. Three of ten tumors demonstrated some level of necrosis; however, this is attributed
  to the normal progression of this tumor xenograft model. Tumor necrosis was first
  observed on Day 26.
  [0147] Following data collection on Day 26, the combination treatment regimen of
  gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel was initiated. This regimen proved to be toxic following
  the initial oxaliplatin alone treatment. No efficacy data could be reported for the triple
  combination.
  [0148] Gemcitabine 80 mg/kg (Group 4) reached a mean tumor weight of 594.7 mg by
  Day 26 and 1288.8 mg by Day 36. This treatment resulted in a TGI of 15.3% on Day 26
  and 16.8% on Day 36, when compared to vehicle control. No significant difference in
  tumor weight was observed on Day 26 or Day 36 when compared to vehicle control.
  Four of the ten tumors demonstrated some level of necrosis; however, this is attributed to
  the normal progression of this tumor xenograft model. Tumor necrosis was first observed
  on Day 26. A maximum weight loss of 8.7% was reached on Day 11. The mice
  recovered their weight by Day 18.
  [0149] ODSH 24 mg/kg and oxaliplatin 10 mg/kg or ODSH 24mg/kg, gemcitabine 80
  mg/kg, and nab-paclitaxel 15 mg/kg (Group 5): The initial treatment combination of
  ODSH and oxaliplatin reached a mean tumor weight of 586.6 mg by Day 26. This
  treatment resulted in a TGI of 16.7% on Day 26 when compared to vehicle control. No
  significant difference in tumor weight was observed on Day 26 when compared to vehicle
  control, ODSH (Group 2), or oxaliplatin (Group 3). All ten mice in this group
  demonstrated increased bruising on the tails or abdomen, at the site of injection. This was
  first observed on Day 4 for the tails and Day 15 for the abdomens. Two of the ten mice
  also demonstrated swelling of the tail, first observed on Day 4. Three of the ten mice
  demonstrated some discoloration of the skin, first observed on Day 11.
                                                -57-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0150] The triple combination of ODSH, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel, initiated on
  Day 26, resulted in increased toxicity following the initial treatment regimen of ODSH
  and oxaliplatin. No statistical analysis could be performed on Day 36 because only one
  mouse remained in this group to Day 36 with a tumor size of 827.5 mg (TGI=51.4%).
  [01511 ODSH 24 mg/kg and gemcitabine 80 mg/kg (Group 6) reached a mean tumor
  weight of 508.9 mg by Day 26 and 993.9 mg by Day 36. This treatment resulted in a TGI
  of 30.7% on Day 26 and 37.9% on Day 36 when compared to vehicle control. No
  significant difference in tumor weight was observed on Day 26 when compared to vehicle
  control, ODSH (Group 2), or gemcitabine (Group 4). A significant decrease in tumor
  weight was seen on Day 36 (P<0.05) when compared to vehicle control; however, no
  significant difference in tumor weights resulted when compared to ODSH (Group 2) or
  gemcitabine (Group 4). One of ten tumors demonstrated some level of necrosis;
  however, this is attributed to the normal progression of this tumor xenograft model.
  Tumor necrosis was first observed on Day 30. A maximum weight loss of 13.4% was
  reached on Day 11. The mice recovered their weight by Day 22. All ten mice in this
  group demonstrated bruising on the tails or abdomen, at the site of injection. This was
  first observed on Day 4 for the tails and Day 15 for the abdomens. Two of the ten mice
  also demonstrated swelling of the tail, first observed on Day 4. One of ten mice
  demonstrated discoloration of the skin, first observed on Day 9. Two of ten mice
  demonstrated dry skin, first observed on Day 9.
  [0152] Oxaliplatin 10 mg/kg and gemcitabine 80 mg/kg (Group 7) reached a mean tumor
  weight of 612.4 mg by Day 26 and 1227.7 mg by Day 36. This group produced a TGI of
  15.5% on Day 26 (n=3) and 22.5% on Day 36 (n=3), when compared to the vehicle
  control. No significant difference in tumor weight was observed on Day 26, when
  compared to vehicle control, oxaliplatin (Group 3), or gemcitabine (Group 4). No
  significant difference in tumor weight was observed on Day 36 when compared to vehicle
  control or gemcitabine (Group 4). One of ten tumors demonstrated some level of
  necrosis; this is attributed to the natural progression of the xenograft model. Tumor
  necrosis was first observed on Day 30. A maximum weight loss of 16.6% was reached on
  Day 8. The mice recovered their weight by Day 15 following cessation of gemcitabine
  treatment. This treatment regimen proved to be toxic. Mice were found dead on Days
                                                 -58-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
   10, 11, and 14, and moribund sacrificed on Days 11 and 12. Two of ten mice in this
  group demonstrated bruising on the tails. This was first observed on Day 4.
  (0153] ODSH 24 mg/kg, oxaliplatin 10 mg/kg, and gemcitabine 80 mg/kg (Group 8)
  could not be assessed for efficacy due to the toxicity of the regimen driven by the
  oxaliplatin and gemcitabine doses.
  [01541 Treatment with ODSH alone was well-tolerated although some bruising and
  swelling at the site of injections occurred. Therefore, the dosing route was changed to
  subcutaneous injection at Day 12. The combination treatments of ODSH and
  gemcitabine and ODSH and oxaliplatin were tolerated. Conversely, treatment
  combination regimens that included gemcitabine with oxaliplatin or gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel resulted in toxicity.
  [0155] The combination of ODSH and gemcitabine resulted in the best efficacy at Day 26
  and Day 36. On both comparison days, the combination of ODSH and gemcitabine
  resulted in notably lower tumor weights than gemcitabine alone. The tumor weights of
  mice treated with ODSH and gemcitabine were statistically significantly lower than
  tumor weights in the control (saline alone) group on Day 36. See FIG. 2.
  [01561 The addition, on Day 26 of the study, of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel to the
  oxaliplatin regimen in Groups 3 and 5 demonstrated severe toxicity that led to the death
  of many animals. It is unclear whether these toxicities were due to the combined
  treatment with oxaliplatin, gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, or residual toxicity related to
  the administration of oxaliplatin.
           6.2.   Example 2: ODSH, a PF4-interacting heparinoid, enhances the
                  efficacy of carboplatin in an in vivo murine xenograft model of human
                  ovarian cancer
  [0157] This example demonstrates that adjunctive administration of ODSH enhances the
  efficacy of carboplatin against human ovarian tumors growing as xenografts in athymic
  nude mice.
  [0158] Materials & methods. ODSH (50 mg/mL stock concentration) was made by
  Pyramid Laboratories, Inc. and stored at room temperature until use. As described further
  below, ODSH was administered either intravenously (IV), at a dose of 48 mg/kg and
  volume of 10 mL/kg, or subcutaneously (SC) at a dose of 24 mg/kg and volume of 5
                                               -59-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  mL/kg. Carboplatin obtained from a clinical supplier was stored at 4*C until use.
  Carboplatin was administered by intraperitoneal injection (IP) at a dose of 80 mg/kg and
  volume of 10 mL/kg. Saline solution (0.9% NaCl) was used as a vehicle control for
  ODSH and administered by the same routes and in the same volumes as ODSH.
  [0159] Human ovarian cancer cell line A2780 was used in the murine xenograft
  experiments as follows. Approximately 5 X 106 A2780 cells were used per mouse,
  injected subcutaneously into the right flank in 0.1 mL of 50% Matrigel/ 50% media. The
  study was initiated when tumors reached a size of 90-130 mg. 40 mice were used, 10 per
  treatment regimen. The mice were normal athymic female mice, aged 6-7 weeks, housed
  in microisolator cages and maintained under pathogen-free conditions. Tumor and body
  weights were measured three times per week.
  [0160] ODSH, oxaliplatin, and the vehicle control (0.9% NaCl) were administered
  according to the dosing schedule described in the table below. Four treatment groups
  were studied.
                                             Table A
                                      Treatment regimens
    Treatment Treatment             Agent              Dosing schedule               Route*
      group                         administered,
                                    and amount
         1       Vehicle control    0.9% saline         Days 1, 8, 15                IV
                                                        Twice a day, until end of    SC
                                                        study on days without IV
                                                        dosing
         2       ODSH               48 mg/kg            Days 1, 8, 15                IV
                                    24 mg/kg            Twice a day until end of     SC
                                                        study on days without IV
                                                        dosing
         3       Carboplatin        80 mg/kg            Days 1, 8, 15                IP
         4       ODSH               48 mg/kg            Days 1, 8, 15 administered   IV
                                                        immediately after
                                                        carboplatin
                                    24 mg/kg            Twice a day until end of     SC
                                                        study on days without IV
                                                        dosing
                 Carboplatin        80 mg/kg            Days 1, 8, 15                IP
  *IV= intravenous, SC = subcutaneous, IP =    intraperitoneal.
                                              -60-

WO 2013/169355                                                                PCT/US2013/031053.
  [0161] Results. As shown in FIG. 4, ODSH does not reduce or counteract the anti
  neoplastic effect of carboplatin. On the contrary, adjunctive administration of ODSH
  with carboplatin (FIG. 4, triangles) caused a significant reduction in the weights of
  tumors of human ovarian cancer cells, as compared to the reduction in tumor weights
  seen in mice receiving only carboplatin (FIG. 4, squares). Furthermore, mice treated
  with ODSH adjunctive to carboplatin had an increase in body weight as compared to mice
  receiving only carboplatin. See FIG. 6, triangles versus squares. Thus, ODSH not only
  increased the efficacy of carboplatin, it also contributed to improved body weights,
  indicative of a positive effect on constitutional side effects (e.g., loss of appetite, weight
  loss) often seen with chemotherapeutic treatment regimens.
  [0162] Recorded tumor weights (in mg) for mice in experimental treatment groups 1
  through 4 are provided in the tables below. Tumor weights were measured on days 1, 4, 6,
  8, 11, 14, 18, 21, 25 and 28 as indicated.
                                                -61-

WO 2013/169355                                                                                         PCT/US2013/031053
   Mouse I1                        157      270    438       675       1,                 2,513   2905     2,5
   Mouse 2                  97    1          5
                                             m1    368         7      1171      1723      2,722     75       TS
   Mouse 3                  10     131      164    340       435       790   |  L199       1A37   2,251    3,542
   Mome 4                  104   164        295    435       591       975      1.48      2,231     TS       T5
   Mouse5                  104   164       285     403       710     1,03       1,77       2313      7.      T5
   Mome6                    18    14       259     465       7F4      L66 57     17       2,053   2,547   53A.25
   Mouse 7                  108   202       397    629        47       137      2.51      3.480     T5       TS
   Mouse5                  14      117      303    391       725       00       11563      2,051  2,940    4,020
   Mouse 9                  122   181       350    508
   Mouse60                                                   741      L,171     L,825
                            127    11       277                                            2,600    T5       T5
   Mean                   1073   164,6    2504     396
                                                 4373   |    919
                                                               63
                                                            694.0   1L04,5       1.533
                                                                                 19        ,2391 2,434.
                                                                                           L91    2,388    393
                                                                                                             346
   Median                 106.0  164.     235.   419.1      6.7        03      1,579.1   2,1420  2,387,7   34247
   Std Dev                MA.6   21,07    6L44   a2m$      162       124       292.64     597.23 337.54   52$.10
   Sid Err                 3.37  6,66     19q.43 26.21      49.41     51,37     92.54     188,86 15D.95   2 6,1
          Mos"190                   21       4     33        635      11084     L151..    2W42      TS       TS
   Mouse 2                  96    117       17      3        493       815       91       1681    2,423    2,12
   Mouse3                  10     23       201     296       529       .2       1,422      2,025    T5       TS
   Moue 4                  104    19        309   449        816      ,303      1,796     2,692     T       3T3
   Mose                    104   114       215     321       366       F7       1L150     1,467   2,414    3,909
   Mouse6                  1      2.80     347    639        910     30240           36   2.6       T5       T5
   Mouse 7                 109    131      264    413       653           3    165         6852   2,464    3.784
   Mouse 8                  112   173      235    411        536       88       L9714      L8     2,599    3,252
   Mouse 9                 120    124       139    183       349       559       891       L289   L817     271
   Mouse 10                127    20       282    422        811         253    L69          560    Ts       TS
   Mean                   107.0  146,8    240.3  36.2       60916     934A       50.7    2,072,6 2,343.5  3,349.0
   Median                 105.5  134.2    215.2  392.0      585.5     949J       S9L.5   1,952.  2,422,8  3,251.6
   Std Dev                10.61  32180    62.97  119.75    1932      302.40    336.20     525J6  30 65    505.10
   Std Err                 3,36  10,37      9.91 37.87      60.50     9563     106.32     166.26 135.30   225.59
   Mouse                |   94    137     3200    419        517     287         942       72183 33921     2,461
   Mous 2               |   %6      03      157    245       442       706       73.i      941      TS       T5
   Mouse 3                 IT|
                           10     109*     169   262         402       640       6 71      LO     L,246    1739
   Mouse 4                 3.08  6.32      124     148.      103       96      1.       121 6       TS       T
   Mouse 5              |  105    15    |  264    466        1539      V75      L1349     11790   2,40a    2,877
   Mouse 6                 LAD
                           10     i99      239     3,58      499       799      1,213      L1596  2,127    2.599
                Mos1         1      4      223     371  |    419       128       713       834    1,109    1,539
   Mouse    8           |  113    16       300    605        81.3     U19       LK6       2.675     TS       T5
   Mous9                     N1   147      208     30f       555       795      L160      L.26      TS       T
   Mouse 10             |  127    194      256     386       542       975      L1        L49       T'       T5
   Me~n                 |  07.3  143,2  | 21.3.0 356.5      433,1     719.3     934.2    1,327.3 L76L 3   2,243.0
   rMedia               | 105.6_ 144,5  | 215.6  364.2      503,5     7503     LO0SLO    1,32U.  1192L10  2,L,
           StdDe        |  9.84  34,21  | 55J78  12.6         621    27.         6,6     605      65        75.98
   5td Err              |  3.11  10,82  | 17.64  4.27       55.2      35         4.20    215.20  252,13   257,5!,
     Muse   *1              94      1$8    155    210     .240          19          4        5      4      1.05.3
     Muse 2                 95    10       173    231        .342      414       6,14      724    L,307      175
     Muse 3                103;   107       132    141       146       153       246       406      TS1      TS
   Ms       4              103    153       l79    FO         FD       ID         FD        FD      FD       FD
   Mouse    5              105    11A       lip    129       110       sr,        91,       SS      TS       TS
   Mouse    6              W05     !49     V80    233        41:3      5Ks      L          1.222    Ts       rT5
   Mouse    7               11    130       140    170       192       213       24        463i     T5S      T
   Mouse    3              113    168      238     394       512      LO027     1,732     2,033     T5       T5
   mouse    9              114    .1       i-49    186       229       458       725       887    L198     LS501
   Mof4use 10              127    1'9      147     166       27.1      3a8       429       471     62.9     910
   Mean                   107,2  134,2    1623   206,7      284.      398.3     619.9     76L1    96.6      1, 9
   Median                 105.2  136A     152.9  185J       240A4     38.3      444.3     554J    968.    L,277.2
   Std Dev                 9,73  19,97    32.39  79.09     154.07    276.98    504.37    574.83  334.J3   407.49
   Std Err                 3,08  6.32     10.24  26.36      5L,36     92.33    168,12     19L61  167,06   203,75
      FD=FoundDead
   TS= Temiial Sacrifin
                                                               -62-

WO 2013/169355                                                         PCT/US2013/031053
  [0163] Recorded individual body weights (in grams) for mice in experimental treatment
  groups 1 through 4 are provided in the tables below. Body weights were measured on
  days 1, 4, 6, 8, 11, 14, 18, 21, 25 and 28 as indicated.
                                                -63-

  WO 2013/169355                                                                                                                    PCT/US2013/031053
                     oo
o                                                                                                                                                                  0
                            "'   141                               .                          4       14          41          . .                         1  ,
0
                           19.4~~~~                   I'iiC          f i    Ir   4444      r    iI     4   q'i     i ~i 4  .4    ,i    .    11 .4..44 '1       w H
                        .i     N   1II It, riCi' "IiI~II4            1 0         II          Il     i          t  t  I
                                                     N    4r   .1 N     i KN,
                                                                       M94411I41    1 4. I   4     4     1     9N 9  4  4 9   9  01.94
                                                                                                                                 9       1    I
                                                     In   II otIII III at1
                                                     o. ICI                                                                           4 .   1 14 C    8 .
                                                          IVC'Ii o         14                                                 --
                                                                                                   II        I    t1    7                        o
                 79.                1                      g,,                                                                   1    Nq-          i      I
                                                                                     F,                                       *.14       -1
                                                                                                             rII 14  1M             l                r    ,,
                                         11n
                                                                                          In

    WO 2013/169355                                                                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
                                            a                     Na
                 r4A
00
eno                                   i                                                                                      a o4   m W,
        CCA                                                    ~                              rr
     C3
                     I's                      Nl
                     rt0so  tt-    ~ s~
                                 I-rtM~iririrri
                                               ii 'tI. flN
                                                        gikflN
                                                           iri
                                                                 A'   N6
                                                                       Umr
                                                                             i Sma
                                                                            ri.qri
                                                                                    a II
                                                                                   ,sLJNJNM
                                                                                    N.1       !rrri
                                                                                                    aII4Vflfl
                                                                                                       04 g
                                                                                                              77N 14 7.w.1   a 0
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                         HI r
                                                                                                                                          1,  .r' a4  0W1
                                ,4    0   M'                      4M4   4  W.o 't   to   l1i'      e.7    P 47       so      N      ,~fI.           t
                           1N- .~N.                                        'A4,s    4      0
                                                                                         NCN6J4      '      >
                                                                                                                                                             In
                   9    It                                0                                            4                   10                  i i    t.t 00
                                ONn                                                &di
                        &                  Rin
                                                            sPO
                                                            150

   WO 2013/169355                                                                  PCT/US2013/031053
                                                                                                              Cdl
0
0
en
                                                        'i0                              - rrn
             0,0
                    '112~  2 2 ~  in 12 " 12 12 t2 "~12     1   127- -r- 12-                   m~ 0'~ 111 2 2221
                  I                   'J                                                                  1221 M .12 14 112
                                                              4              14    cJ~~J
                               in1                                              -6
                          ~J ~           V          "1~
                                                                               2A
                                                                             W                      p

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
           6.3.   Example 3: ODSH, a PF4-interacting heparinoid, attenuates
                  thrombocytopenia and neutropenia, induces thrombopoiesis and
                  neutrophil production, and reduces constitutional symptoms in
                  patients receiving a chemotherapy treatment regimen having
                  myelosuppressive side effects
  [0164] Patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer were treated with ODSH as
  an adjunct to treatment with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane@, albumin-bound
  paclitaxel) in an unblinded clinical trial.
  [01651 Inclusion criteria. Male and non-pregnant, non-lactating, female patients, aged
  18 to 75, with histologically confirmed metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were
  enrolled in the trial. Further inclusion criteria were: presence of at least one metastatic
  tumors (measurable by conventional techniques or CT scan), serum CA 19-9
  measurement of greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal, no radiation therapy or
  chemotherapy for locally advanced disease within six months of enrollment into the trial,
  absolute neutrophil count of at least 1.5 X 109/L, platelet count of at least 100,000/mm 3
  (or 100 X 109/L), hemoglobin level of at least 9 g/dL, prothrombin and partial
  thromboplastin times within normal limits (+/- 15%) at time of screening, Eastern
  Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 1 or more. In addition, patients were
  screened for blood chemistry levels, including serum creatinine levels within normal
  limits, serum transaminase levels of 2.5 or greater than the upper limit of normal, and
  bilirubin levels of 1.5 times the upper limit of normal or more.
  [0166] Dosing regimen. Treatment consisted of a series of 28-day cycles, wherein the
  last day of one cycle (e.g., day 28, cycle 1) was immediately followed by the first day of
  the next cycle (e.g., day 1, cycle 2). In each 28-day treatment cycle, patients were dosed
  at days 1, 8, and 15 (three weeks of medication followed by one week of rest) as follows.
  First, nab-paclitaxel at 125 mg/m 2 was administered as an intravenous infusion over 30
  minutes. Next, gemcitabine was administered at 1000 mg/m 2 as an intravenous infusion
  over 30 minutes. Nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine therapy was given as described in the
  prescribing information for Abraxane@ and Gemzar@. See also, Von Hoff et al., 2011, J.
  Clinical Oncology 29:1-7).
                                                -67-

WO 2013/169355                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
  [0167] ODSH was administered immediately after gemcitabine administration, as
  follows: an initial loading dose was administered as a bolus of 4 mg/kg over 5 minutes
  followed by a continuous intravenous infusion over 48 hours, at a dose of 0.375 mg/kg/hr.
  These doses are, respectively, 9-fold higher and 3.75-fold higher than the bolus and
  maintenance doses of unfractionated heparin routinely used to confer full anticoagulation
  in a clinical setting (0.44 mg/kg for bolus injection, and 0.1 mg/kg/hr for maintenance).
  As a substantially non-anticoagulant heparinoid, ODSH can be administered at a dose that
  is greater than the fully anticoagulant dose of unfractionated heparin, without concern for
  anticoagulant effect, as shown in the Results below.
  [0168] An initial run-in period was conducted in which ten patients were treated with the
  gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel, and ODSH regimen described above. After all ten patients
  had completed at least one 28-day cycle, the data were reviewed and an open-label
  randomized study initiated, with two arms (ODSH arm and Control arm). In the ODSH
  arm, the dosing regimen was the same as in the run-in period (gemcitabine, nab
  paclitaxel, and ODSH). In the Control arm, patients were given the same gemcitabine
  and nab-paclitaxel regimen as in the run-in period, but without ODSH.
  [0169] Testing. Blood was drawn before treatment administration on days 1, 8, and 15 of
  each 28 day cycle. Platelet counts, total white blood cell counts, and absolute neutrophil
  counts were performed. Grading of thrombocytopenia and/or neutropenia was performed
  according to the following standards:
                  Thrombocytopenia             Grade             Platelet count
                                                                 (X 10 3 /pl blood)
                                                  0*                   >150
                                                   1                <150-75
                                                   2                 <75-50
                                                   3                 <50-25
                                                   4                    <25
                   *(non-thrombocytopenic)
                      Neutropenia              Grade             Platelet count
                                                                 (X 103/pl blood)
                                                  0*                      _2
                                                   1                  <2-1.5
                                               -68-

WO 2013/169355                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
                      Neutropenia             Grade             Platelet count
                                                                 (X 10 3 /Il blood)
                                                 2                    <1.5-1
                                                 3                   <1.0-0.5
                                                 4                     <0.5
                   *(non-neutropenic)
  Blood samples were also tested on day 1 of each treatment cycle for the serum level of
  CA19-9 (carbohydrate antigen 19-9) a marker used to assess the efficacy of the
  chemotherapy agents in treating pancreatic cancer. See, e.g., Maeda, 2011, Int. J. Clin.
  Oncol. 16(5):539-45. Reduction in the serum level of CA19-9 is indicative of
  chemotherapeutic efficacy against the pancreatic cancer. Tumor response and disease
  status was measured according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
  (RECIST) Guidelines Version 1.1. Eur.J. Cancer,2009, 45:228-247. A reduction of at
  least 30% in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (measurable lesions present at
  screening, up to 2 lesions per involved organ) was scored as a partial response. Patients
  were scored as having stable disease where the smallest sum of target lesion diameters
  neither decreased nor increased sufficiently to qualify as a partial response or progressive
  disease.
  [0170] Lack of anticoagulation by ODSH was confirmed by monitoring partial
  thromboplastin time (aPTT) during ODSH infusion, at days 1, 3, 10, and 17 of treatment
  cycle 1. Normal range of aPTT is about 27 to 35 seconds +/- 15%.
  [0171] Patients were also assessed for other side effects of chemotherapy, including
  fatigue, sensory neuropathy, nausea, and vomiting, each of which was graded according
  to severity. Grades were: 0 (normal), 1 (mild), 2 (moderate), 3 (severe) and 4 (life
  threatening).
  [0172] Results. Platelet counts are shown in Table 16 below. Counts shown in the
  "Screen" column are counts prior to entry into the clinical trial protocol.
  [0173] Ten out of 10 patients who completed the first cycle of chemotherapy and who
  also had blood drawn at the beginning of the second cycle had platelet counts at the
  beginning of the second cycle that were greater than their platelet counts at the beginning
  of the first cycle, before any chemotherapy had been administered. Eight out of 9 patients
                                              -69-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
  who completed the second cycle of chemotherapy and who also had blood drawn at the
  beginning of the third cycle had platelet counts at the beginning of the third cycle that
  were greater than their platelet counts at the beginning of the first cycle, before any
  chemotherapy had been administered. This trend was robust, continuing into subsequent
  cycles of chemotherapy. For example, 9 out of 10 patients who completed the third cycle
  of chemotherapy and who also had blood drawn at the beginning of the fourth cycle had
  platelet counts at the beginning of the fourth cycle that were greater than their platelet
  counts at the beginning of the first cycle, before any chemotherapy had been
  administered.
                                                -70-

   WO 2013/169355                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
                                                                                                         00                                                00
                                                                                                        Cl                                                 0
    en                                                                                                                                                                00
         o    .fCU
                                                                 r-
                                                                       00O
                                                                             00
                                                                                      00
                                                                                         r
                                                                                              CD         0t
                                                                                                         Cl
                                                                                                                   CD
                                                                                                                   00                         0
                                                                                kn        mcq        cq    q       I0
                               000
                          00
               0.   ____                                                                                           C)                                      C
00
                                                   m             0l                      00
                                                                                         ON              eq        ON                      0
                      ca         G       CU I )      ON                        m         0tN                         0d                                    ON 0
                                                                 00          o=            -n            -
                      cc            C) N         cq              00                 0       0    kn                                C 00
                         C   )      O0 N            0q           00           mN         00D~                         C         ON1         al                l
                                                (D               r- -                    r- Cl              t      110          ZtN
                                     N                   N.     00           ON                         \O         ON      00          m    .                0l
         1-                    -    0         C                  00                        mN           '.0        0o          Nl          0
                                   ON0
                                    c-
                                                cl
                                                0. 0             00          0
                                                                                          0-
                                                                                          C
                                                                                                         01
                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                ~  t-0
                                                                                                                               ON
                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                           ON
                                                                                                                                              00
                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                             C)
                                                   m              ml         VN                                                110 -        -                It
                                     N              0       n             ON                   r-                        00                 mN             00
                  S   cUc    0                                   00           C)0        r-              10        '0                                      0
                                    vn                           0--0        kn                          c-                     m~         CN
                                   '.0      r-                               '0                    m     %l        00          NA                          W)'.
                                    0- CU -n                                                                                   0l 0     0        0              N N 0  00 0
                               -      N          00               N1          0                          1'0       00          N              '.              0
                                                                        -                r-              CA        r-co0
                                   00              N-            It            0                            l      L0                               0    e
                         CU    -       -         W) 00                         m.          m Cl         '.0                    kn          C           00     C
                                     m.         cq                            I                          cq                     m.
                                     m-         \.-         ______
                                                                 \C___          -D                _       -       --r__     -    -        -        -   -
                                    \ .O               0n                          ON          N            0 C      N              '         C 0          CD
                      Cc       00                   N                         00          0D               C)         '0        m     00      N              m
                                     -                 -                         l             a3          r-         CI        -           1
          ,00
                     ~     U 0                  CN
                                                CD
                                                                    N4
                                                                 CDClC                                   CD
                                                                                                                      ml
                                                                                                                      C>        CD         CD
                                                                                                                                                      IN 0
                                                                                                                                                             C
                                    C)          C)                           ONC         C)              C)        C>          CIN         CIN              N
                                                                               --                        \C        rCl                     0-              ON

WO 2013/169355                                                                  PCT/US2013/031053
  [0174] FIG. 8 shows a plot of the platelet counts for individual patients as measured in
  samples taken before treatment on indicated days (D1= day 1, D8= day 8, and D15= day
  15) of the indicated cycles (C1= cycle 1; C2= cycle 2, etc.). There is a clear trend of
  increasing platelet count at the start of each successive cycle of treatment, relative not
  only to the platelet count after two weeks of treatment in a previous cycle, but also
  relative to the platelet count at the start of the initial cycle of treatment, i.e. before any
  treatment was administered. None of the patients exhibited thrombocytopenia at the start
  of the second cycle and only one of 8 patients exhibited thrombocytopenia at the start of
  the third cycle.
  [0175] Table 17 shows the percentage of patients with thrombocytopenia after two doses
  (day 15, first cycle) or after five or more doses (day 15, second cycle or day 1, third
  cycle) of treatment with ODSH adjunctive to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. Also
  shown in Table 17, at row 3, are historical data, showing the percentages of patients with
  varying grades of thrombocytopenia who had been treated with gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel in the same amounts and on the same dosing schedule as described herein, but
  without adjunctive administration of ODSH. The data presented in row 3 are reproduced
  from Table 3 of Von Hoff et al., 2011, J. ClinicalOncology 29:1-7, which provides the
  overall number and percent of patients exhibiting selected adverse events throughout the
  trial. Total number of patients in each category is shown in parentheses.
                                               Table 17
               Toxicity (% patients with thrombocytope ia of indicated grade
     Row        Treatment (no.        Grade 0       Grade        Grade       Grade        Grade
                of patients)                        1            2           3            4
         1      Gemcitabine +         40            50           10          0            0
                nab-paclitaxel +
                ODSH, first
                cycle, day 15
                (10)
         2      Gemcitabine +         70             10          20          0            0
                nab-paclitaxel +
                ODSH, second
                cycle day 15
              1 (10)                  _
                                                  -72-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
                                            Table 17
              Toxicity (% patients with thrombocytopenia of indicated grade)
         3     Von Hoff et al.       9            42          21          19         9
               Gemcitabine +
               nab-paclitaxel
               (44) (historical)
  [0176] As shown above, after two doses of treatment, 40% of the patients treated
  adjunctively with ODSH showed no thrombocytopenia, and 90% of the patients had no
  more than mild thrombocytopenia. After five doses of treatment (day 15 of cycle 2), 7
  out of 10 patients had no thrombocytopenia.
  [0177] Table 18 shows the platelet counts for each patient at day 1 of successive
  treatment cycles (e.g., treatment cycle 1, 2, 3, etc.). As can be seen from the platelet
  counts at the beginning of cycles 2 and 3, even after receiving one or two full cycles
  (equal to three or six doses) of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, only one of the patients
  was thrombocytopenic, exhibiting mild (Grade 1) thrombocytopenia. All other patients
  showed platelet counts well above the lower limit of normal. This trend continued into
  Cycle 4 for patients 2001, 6002, 6003, 6004, 6006, 6007, 7001, 8001, and 9001. Overall,
  platelets counts in 10/10 patients were higher at the beginning of cycle 2 than at the
  beginning of cycle 1, and platelets counts in 6/9 patients were higher at the beginning of
  cycle 3 than at the beginning of cycle 2.
                            Table 18 Platelet count at start of cycle
    anuer      Cycle 1      Cycle 2    Cycle 3        Cycle 4    Cycle 5     Cycle 6    Cycle 7
    2001         342          614         628            626
    6002         429          532         387            382       427         503
    6003         180          274         361            387       288         275
    6004         313          419         510            586       499         288
                                               -73-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
                            Table 18 Platelet count at start of cycle
   Patient     Cycle 1     Cycle 2     Cycle 3       Cycle 4      Cycle 5     Cycle 6    Cycle 7
  number
    6006         264         322         327           402          351
    6007          191        312         362           292
    7001         274         574         655           478          389         489         454
    7002         276         445         418           667          275
    8001          120        175         123            184
    9001         271         417                       406          512         371
  [01781 As shown further in FIG. 10A, mean and median platelet counts across all
  samples were consistently above 150,000 on the first day of treatment cycles 2 and 3,
  even when numbers were below 150,000 on day 15 of the first treatment cycle. In fact, in
  treatment cycles 2 and 3, mean and median platelet counts at day 15 -when platelet
  counts are expected to be at their lowest- remained in the normal range. Furthermore,
  mean and median platelet counts at the start of the third cycle were greater than at the
  start of the second cycle and were greater at the start of the second cycle than at the
  screening measurement and the start of the first cycle (before any chemotherapy was
  administered).
  [0179] In the randomized stage of the trial, a statistically significant difference in platelet
  counts was detected between the ODSH arm and the Control arm of the study, as shown
  in Table 19 below, demonstrating that ODSH attenuates thrombocytopenia associated
  with myelosuppressive treatment regimens.
                                              -74-

WO 2013/169355                                           PCT/US2013/031053
                             Table 19
                           ODSH ARM
         Patient Cycle 1    Cycle 2      Cycle 3 Cycle 4
         number  Day 15     Day 15       Day 15  Day 15
         6009    199        92           96      138
         8002    172        165
         8005    162
         9002    232
         9004    231        110          124
         11001   216        156
         14001   121        95           74      31
         14002   103        74           76
                         CONTROL ARM
         Patient Cycle 1    Cycle 2      Cycle 3 Cycle 4
         number  Day 15     Day 15       Day 15  Day 15
         4002    64
         6008    92         81           38
         8003    186        200
         9003    71         119          53      78
         11002   77
         14003   95         80           94
         14005   104        118          117
                                    -75-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
                                         Table 19
                                    One tail t-test       Two tail t-test
          Effect on platelets       .021                  .042
  [0180] Table 20 below provides absolute neutrophil counts for the patients treated
  adjunctively with ODSH. Eight out of 10 patients who completed the first cycle of
  treatment showed normal neutrophil counts on the first day of the second treatment cycle.
  Five out of 10 patients who completed the first cycle also had increased or unchanged
  neutrophil counts on the first day of the. second treatment cycle as compared to the first
  day of the first cycle (prior to chemotherapy). Furthermore, 8 out of 9 patients showed
  normal neutrophil counts at the start of the third cycle of treatment and 10 out of 10
  patients showed normal neutrophil counts at the start of the fourth cycle of treatment.
                                                -76-

WO 2013/169355                                                     PCT/US2013/031053
                      Cl!     -                                                      C
               000
                                  Cl  Cl                             l!
     on                                  Clnm
  00        -I
          00l         Cl              0
      rrI
                                                               ~        CD
                   00  0                      Cl
                                     Cll
                             cl-f             Cl)
                                               14   C               01
                             oq                   N       Ci
                                              00                         0     mf
                          en                        MO    c         c=
                          Ci WC               I-       l        00
                                              00                        Cl4
                                                       00    -            .
                                                                         00   o

WO 2013/169355                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
  [0181] FIG. 9 shows a plot of the neutrophil count for individual patients as measured in
  samples taken before treatment on indicated days (D1= day 1, D8= day 8, and D15= day
  15) of the indicated cycles (C1= cycle 1; C2= cycle 2, etc.). There is a clear trend of
  increasing neutrophil count at the start of the second cycle of treatment, relative to the
  neutrophil count at the start of the initial cycle of treatment, i.e. before any treatment was
  administered.
  [01821 Table 21 shows the percentage of patients with neutropenia after two doses (day
  15, first cycle) or after five or more doses (day 15, second cycle or day 15, third cycle) of
  treatment with ODSH adjunctive to gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. Also shown in Table
  21, at row 3, are historical data showing the percentages of patients with varying grades
  of neutropenia who had been treated with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in the same
  amounts and on the same dosing schedule as described herein, without ODSH. The data
  presented in row 3 are reproduced from Table 3 of Von Hoff et al., 2011, J. Clinical
  Oncology 29:1-7, which provides the overall number and percent of patients exhibiting
  selected adverse events throughout the trial. The total number of patients in each
  category is shown in parentheses.
                                               Table 21
                   Toxicity (% patients with n utropenia of indicated grade)
     Row      Treatment (no. of       Grade 0      Grade       Grade        Grade       Grade
              patients)                            1           2            3           4
       1      Gemcitabine +              33           11           22          33          0
              nab-paclitaxel +
              ODSH, first cycle
              day 15
              (9)
       2      Gemcitabine +              20           50           20           10         0
              nab-paclitaxel +
              ODSH, second
              cycle day 15 or
              third cycle day 15
              (10)
       3      Von Hoff et al.             9           14            2          26         49
              Gemcitabine +
              nab-paclitaxel
              (44)
                                                 -78-

WO 2013/169355                                                                PCT/US2013/031053
  [01831 As shown above, after two doses of treatment, 44% of the patients treated
  adjunctively with ODSH showed no more than mild neutropenia. After five doses of
  treatment (day 15 of cycle 2) or eight doses of treatment (day 15 of cycle 3) 7 out of 10
  patients had no more than mild neutropenia. As shown.further in FIG. 10B, mean and
  median absolute neutrophil counts across all samples, were consistently above 2,000 on
  the first day of treatment cycles 2 and 3, even when numbers were below 2,000 on day 15
  of the previous cycle. With successive cycles and without dose reduction, patients with
  grade 3 neutropenia at the nadir of the first cycle, had no more than grade 1 or 2
  neutropenia in cycles 2 or 3 (see patients 6004, 6004, and 7001). Only one patient (7001)
  out of 10 was treated with G-CSF, receiving a single dose in cycle 1.
  [01841 In the randomized stage of the trial, a statistically significant difference in
  neutrophil counts was detected between the ODSH arm and the Control arm of the study,
  as shown in Table 22 below, demonstrating that ODSH attenuates neutropenia associated
  with myelosuppressive treatment regimens.
                                           Table 22
                                         ODSH Arm
              Patient        Cycle 1      Cycle 2        Cycle 3       Cycle 4
              number         Day 15       Day 15         Day 15        Day 15
              6009           4.7          3.7            5.4           4.1
              8002           3.0          3.7
               8005           0.3
               9002          4.0
               9004           2.4          1.8            1.0
               11001          1.4          1.8
                                                -79-

WO 2013/169355                                                           PCT/US2013/031053
                                         Table 22
             14001        4.0           1.6          1.6          4.8
             14002         0.8          0.8          0.8
                                       Control Arm
             Patient       Cycle 1      Cycle 2      Cycle 3      Cycle 4
             number       Day 15        Day 15       Day 15       Day 15
             4002          0.6
             6008          1.1          1.1          0.3
             8003          1.7          1.7
             9003          0.8          0.8          1.0          0.9
             11002         1.4
             14003         3.3          2.2          3.1
             14005        2.3           1.8          1.3
                                   One tail t-test        Two tail t-test
             Effect on             .009                   .017
             neutrophils
  [0185] Total white blood cell counts were consistent with neutrophil counts, as shown
  below in Table 23.
                                            -80-

WO 2013/169355                                       PCT/US2013/031053
                                     -44
                00                                                     C,
                       000
                       T-0
  -        C     -4
  00
       uu0
       U
             uu
                              00OR                cl
           -
           Q                       0
                Cu
                 Q         00            mO 00 00
                    -l                                0

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  [0186] Assessment of fatigue, sensory neuropathy, nausea, and vomiting, all of which are
  common side effects of chemotherapy, and notably in the gemcitabine-abraxane regimen
  described in Von Hoff et al., revealed that patients treated adjunctively with ODSH
  experienced mild to moderate symptoms, with more than 50% of the patients
  experiencing no more than Grade 1 side effects. Table 24 below provides the percentage
  of patients experiencing different grades of each side effect, as compared to the
  percentages reported in Von Hoff et al., 2011, J. Clinical Oncology 29:1-7.
                                             Table 24
                                            Toxicity (% patients per indicated grade)
   Side Effect   Treatment (no.          Grade 0           Grade 1      Grade 2     Grade 3
      __________   of patients)      ___    ____      _______
     Fatigue      Von Hoff et al.          20                 23           30         27
                       (44)
                  Gemcitabine +
                 nab-paclitaxel +          45                 55           0           0
                    ODSH (9)
     Nausea       Von Hoff et al.          53                 25           20          2
                        (44)
                  Gemcitabine +
                 nab-paclitaxel +          45                 55           0           0
                    ODSH (9)
    Vomiting      Von Hoffetal.            63                 23           7           7
                  Gemcitabine +
                 nab-paclitaxel+           91                  9           0           0
                    ODSH (9)
     Sensory      Von Hoff et al.          26                                         20
  Neuropathy            (44)                                  34           20
                  Gemcitabine +
                 nab-paclitaxel +          90                  0            0          10
                    ODSH (9)
  [0187] Serum CA19-9 level, a marker correlated with extent of tumor, and therefore
  correlated with efficacy of the chemotherapeutic treatment, decreased in 8 of 10 patients,
  showing that the ability of ODSH to attenuate thrombocytopenia and neutropenia and
  induce thrombopoiesis and neutrophil production did not interfere with the efficacy of the
                                                 -82-

WO 2013/169355                                                                 PCT/US2013/031053
  chemotherapy (indicated by the decrease in CA19-9 serum levels), consistent with the
  results obtained in the pancreatic xenograft animal model described in Example 1. See
  Table 25 below.
                            Table 25 - CA19-9 Serum levels (U/mL)
  Patient ID           Cycle 1              Cycle 2            Cycle 3           Cycle 4
                       Day 1               Day 1               Day 1             Day 1
         2001                4,775                5,934             8,529              9,926
         6002                 125                   71                27                 15
         6003                6,186                4,392             2,669              2405
         6004                6,275                4,018             1,433               348
         6006                 395                   490              251                108
         6007               70,086               22,958             10,286
         7001                2,138                  502              328                288
         7002                 483                   453              205                110
         8001                  11                    17               15                 20
         9001                 326                   710              164                 69
   [0188] All ten patients showed a response to treatment despite extensive metastatic
  disease at the start of the clinical trial: 5 patients showed a partial response and 5 patients
  showed stable disease, as measured using RECIST Criteria. See FIG. 12A. After three or
  four full cycles of treatment, no patient showed any clinical or radiographic evidence of
  progressive disease. Patients 2001 and 6002 also exhibited reduction in the size of liver
  and lung or nodal metastases by the fourth cycle of treatment. As shown in FIG. 11A,
  Liver metastases in patient 2001 have disappeared and pulmonary lesions have decreased
  in size, with minimal clinical symptoms of metastatic disease, despite rising CAI 9-9
  levels. Patient 6002 showed stable disease and a reduction in the size of metastatic
  lesions in the liver and lymph nodes. See FIGS. 11B-C. Patient 6003, who presented
                                                   -83-

WO 2013/169355                                                          PCT/US2013/031053
  with lung metastases, also showed stable disease, as shown in FIG. 11D.Patient 6006
  showed stable disease and some reduction in the size pancreatic and metastatic lesions in
  the liver. See FIG. 11E. Patient 8001 showed stable disease with a reduction in the size
  of pancreatic tumor at the end of cycle 2. See FIG. 11F. FIGS. 12B-F show that patients
  6004, 6007, 7001, 7002, and 9001 had a partial response. Eastern Cooperative Oncology
  Group (ECOG) Performance status in 7 evaluable patients was stable or improved after 8
  weeks in the trial (at day 1 of treatment cycle 3).
  [0189] The treatment regimen also appears to have minimal adverse effects on weight, as
  most patients have experienced minimum weight loss or even some weight gain. See
  Table 26 below.
                                             Table 26
                                       Weight (in pounds)
  Patient ID    Cycle 1       Cycle 2       Cycle 3     Cycle 4     Cycle 5        Cycle 6
                Day1          Day1          Day1        Day1        Day1          Day1
      2001          125            124          119        120
      6002          163            164          169        173          177           176
      6003          147            140          144        139          137           133
      6004          158            155          157        153          156           157
      6006          189            187          188        185          188
      6007          110            115          112        115
      7001          163            164          162        164          163
      7002          197            191          186        170          167
      8001          160            164          166         166
                                               -84-

WO 2013/169355                                                         PCT/US2013/031053
                                          Table 26
                                    Weight (in pounds)
  Patient ID   Cycle 1      Cycle 2       Cycle 3      Cycle 4      Cycle 5      Cycle 6
               Day 1        Day 1        Day 1        Day 1         Day 1        Day 1
     9001         137          135           134           129         127
  [0190] As shown in Table 27 below, ODSH infusion did not result in anticoagulation, as
  determined by partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) in the patients.
                              Table 27 -- aPTT (in seconds)
  Patient ID    Cycle 1 Day 1        Cycle 1 Day 3      Cycle 1 Day 10    Cycle 1 Day 17
      2001               26                34                  33                33
      6002               25                31                  36
      6003               29                33                  34
      6004               27                31                  31               29
      6006               29                                    34                34
      6007               24                28                                   28
      7001                                 33                  32                30
      7002               36                43                  38                42
      8001               33                38                  35                36
      9001               28                31                  31                30
                                            -85-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  [0191] In the open-label randomized trial initiated after the run-in period, a significant
  difference in platelet count was observed between the ODSH arm and the Control arm
  (no ODSH), as shown in FIGS.13A and 13B. The median and mean platelet counts at
  day 15 of the first cycle of chemotherapy (after three doses of chemotherapy) were
  significantly higher in the patients receiving ODSH in addition to gemcitabine and nab
  paclitaxel than in the patients not receiving ODSH (p = 0.013 using unpaired t-test, 5
  patients in each treatment arm). See FIG. 13A. This effect held true in subsequent cycles
  2 through 6 (p = 0.0003 after 6 cycles in unpaired t-test). See FIG. 13B and Table 28
  below. Furthermore, adjunctive administration of ODSH enhanced platelet recovery by
  day 1 of a subsequent cycle. FIG. 13B and Table 28 below (compare day 1 of cycles in
  control arm patients versus ODSH arm patients, p = 0.0004 after 6 cycles, unpaired t
  test).
                                            Table 28
                                           Day 1      Day 15      Day 1      Day 15
                                                                    (n)        (n)
              CONTROL         Cycle 1       223         95          16          13
                 ARM
                              Cycle 2       331         107         11          9
                              Cycle 3       286         95           9          8
                              Cycle 4       242         101          7          7
                              Cycle 5       255         85           6          6
                              Cycle 6       257         50           6          5
              ODSH ARM        Cycle 1       248         143         26         26
                              Cycle2        336         135         24         21
                              Cycle 3       393         171         14          13
                              Cycle 4       404         156         12          12
                              Cycle 5       389         121         11          8
                              Cycle 6       371         132          8          8
  [0192] In conclusion, ODSH attenuated the myelosuppressive side effects of the
  gemcitabine/Abraxane regimen (as compared to patients reported in Von Hoff et al.,
  2011, J. ClinicalOncology 29:1-7 and as compared to patients randomized to receive
  gemcitabine/Abraxane alone, in the randomized portion of this trial), and increased
  platelet and neutrophil counts in the patients above levels seen prior to treatment, while
  preserving the efficacy of the chemotherapy regimen. Furthermore, a reduction in side
                                                -86-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  effects which manifest as constitutional symptoms, such as fatigue, nausea, and vomiting,
  was also observed. ODSH and other PF4-interacting heparinoids attenuate constitutional
  symptoms associated with chemotherapy.
  [0193] Overall, the observed effects may permit intensification of the chemotherapeutic
  regimen with improved antineoplastic efficacy.
          6.4.    Example 4: ODSH attenuates thrombocytopenia associated with the
                  treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML)
  [01941 A clinical trial is conducted to confirm the therapeutic advantage of ODSH
  administered adjunctively to induction and consolidation therapy and subsequent
  allogeneic or autologous bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of acute
  myelogenous leukemia (AML). Subjects included in the trial are subjects diagnosed with
  AML who are undergoing induction and consolidation therapy. Subjects are randomly
  assigned to either a control group (receiving only induction and consolidation therapy) or
  a treatment group (receiving adjunctive administration of ODSH). ODSH is administered
  as a continuous infusion (0.375 mg/kg/hr). Subjects in each arm of the trial are evaluated
  for platelet counts and the need for platelet transfusion. Further metrics evaluated include
  measurement of circulating levels of PF4 and rate of granulocyte recovery.
  [0195] Results are obtained which demonstrate that addition of ODSH to standard
  induction and consolidation therapy attenuates thrombocytopenia.
  [0196] A second clinical trial is conducted to confirm the advantage of ODSH
  administered adjunctively to induction and consolidation chemotherapy in the treatment
  of AML. The trial is an open-label pilot study of ten patients newly diagnosed with AML
  and not previously treated for AML. Patient treatment regimens are as follows. During an
  induction phase, 100 mg/m 2 /day of cytarabine is administered continuously by
  intravenous infusion for 7 days (Day 1- Day 7) and 12 mg/m 2 /day of idarubicin is
  administered by intravenous injection on each of Day 1, Day 2, and Day3. Four mg/kg
  ODSH is administered intravenously as a bolus on Day 1 immediately after idarubicin,
  and is then administered at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg/hr continuously by intravenous infusion
  on Day 1 to Day7. For patients under 60 years of age, the induction phase is followed by
  up to four cycles of consolidation chemotherapy, each cycle consisting of 3 g/m 2
  cytarabine administered over a period of 3 hours, every 12 hours on Days 1, 3, and 5 or a
                                                -87-

WO 2013/169355                                                              PCT/US2013/031053
  5-day cycle. During the consolidation phase, 4 mg/kg ODSH is administered
  intravenously as a bolus on Day 1 immediately after cytarabine, and is then administered
  at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg/hr continuously by intravenous infusion on Day I to Day 5.
  Consolidation chemotherapy is initiated no sooner than 28 days from the start of
  induction chemotherapy. Subjects are evaluated for the degree and duration of
  thrombocytopenia, based on platelet counts and need for transfusion.
  [0197] Results are obtained which demonstrate that addition of ODSH to standard
  induction and consolidation therapy attenuates thrombocytopenia.
  [0198] All publications, patents, patent applications and other documents cited in this
  application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes to the
  same extent as if each individual publication, patent, patent application or other document
  were individually indicated to be incorporated by reference for all purposes.
  [0199] While various specific embodiments have been illustrated and described, it will be
  appreciated that various changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope
  of the invention(s).
                                              -88-

WO 2013/169355                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1.     A method of attenuating a myelosuppressive side effect of a patient treatment
         regimen comprising:
                 adjunctively administering a therapeutically effective amount of a PF4
         interacting heparinoid to the patient.
  2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the myelosuppressive side effect is
         thrombocytopenia.
  3.     The method of claim 2, wherein the patient is diagnosed with grade 1, 2, 3, or 4
         thrombocytopenia.
  4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the myelosuppresive side effect is neutropenia.
  5.     The method of claim 4, wherein the patient is diagnosed with grade 1, 2, 3, or 4
         neutropenia.
  6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the myelosuppresive side effect is
         thrombocytopenia and neutropenia.
  7.     The method of claim 6, wherein the patient is diagnosed with grade 1, 2, 3, or 4
         thrombocytopenia and grade 1, 2, 3, or 4 neutropenia.
  8.     The method of claim 1, wherein the patient treatment regimen comprises an
         antineoplastic treatment regimen.
  9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the antineoplastic treatment regimen comprises
         one or more chemotherapeutic agents.
  10.    The method of claim 9, in which the one or more chemotherapeutic agents is
         selected from a folate antagonist, methotrexate and pemetrexed; a purine
         antagonist, cladribine, clofarabine, fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, nelarabine,
         pentostatin; a pyrimidine antagonist, capecitabine, cytarabine, 5-fluorouracil,
         gemcitabine, hydroxyurea; a biologic response modifier, interferon-alfa;
         bleomycin; a DNA alkylating agent, nitrosureas, carmustine, lomustine; a DNA
         cross-linking drug, a DNA alkylating agent, bendamustine, chlorambucil,
                                              -89-

WO 2013/169355                                                                PCT/US2013/031053
         cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine, melphalan, dacarbazine,
         temozolomide, procarbazine; asparaginase; an antibiotic, mitomycin; a platinum
         complex, carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin; a proteosome inhibitor, bortezomib; a
         spindle poison, a taxane, docetaxel, paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, a vinca, vinblastine,
         vincristine, vinorelbine; a topoisomerase inhibitor, an anthracycline, daunorubicin,
         daunomycin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, a camptothecine, irinotecan, topotecan, a
         podophyllotoxin, etoposide, teniposide, mitoxantrone; a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,
         erlotinib, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, sorafenib, sunitinib; and ifosfamide.
  11.    The method of claim 10, in which one of the one or more chemotherapeutic agents
         is gemcitabine.
  12.    The method of claim 10 or 11, in which one of the one or more chemotherapeutic
         agents is a taxane.
  13.    The method of claim 12, in which the taxane is taxol.
  14.    The method of claim 12, in which the taxane is paclitaxel.
  15.    The method of claim 13 or 14, in which the paclitaxel is nab-paclitaxel.
  16.    The method of any one of claims 12-15, in which one or more additional
         chemotherapeutic agents are administered to the patient.
  17.    The method of any one of claims 12-15, in which one or more therapeutic
         antibodies are administered to the patient.
  18.    The method of any one of claims 12-17, in which the subject has breast cancer,
         optionally metastatic breast cancer.
  19.     The method of any one of claims 12-17, in which the subject has recurrent breast
         cancer.
  20.    The method of any one of claims 12-17, in which the subject has pancreatic
         cancer, optionally metastatic pancreatic cancer.
  21.    The method of claim 19, wherein an antineoplastic treatment regimen comprising
         one or more chemotherapeutic agents was administered to the patient within 6
         months of breast cancer recurrence.
                                                -90-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  22.    The method of claim 21, wherein the antineoplastic treatment regimen
         administered to the patient within 6 months of breast cancer recurrence comprised
         an anthracycline.
  23.    The method of claim 9 or claim 10, in which two or more chemotherapeutic
         agents are administered to the patient, wherein the two or more agents are selected
         from cisplatin and etoposide; carboplatin and etoposide; cisplatin and irinotecan;
         carboplatin and irinotecan; cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), and
         vincristine; cyclophosphamide/ doxorubicin/vincristine; gemcitabine with
         vinorelbine or paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane@); gemcitabine or
         capecitabine with oxaliplatin; cisplatin or carboplatin plus another
         chemotherapeutic agent; 5-fluorouracil with one or more of leuvocorin,
         oxaliplatin, irinotecan.
  24.    The method of claim 9 or claim 10, in which the two or more chemotherapeutic
         agents are administered according to a specific regimen is selected from 5FU
         Mayo, 5FU Roswell Park, LVFU2, FOLFOX4, FOLFOX6, bFOL, FUFOX, IFL,
         XELOX, XELIRI, CAPIRI, and ICE.
  25.    The method of claim 8, wherein the antineoplastic treatment regimen comprises
         radiation therapy.
  26.    The method of claim 25, wherein the radiation therapy is selected from x-ray
         radiation, gamma ray radiation, neutron radiation, proton radiation, external beam
         radiation therapy, and brachytherapy.
  27.    The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein the antineoplastic treatment regimen
         further comprises one or more chemotherapeutic agents.
  28.    The method of claim 27, wherein the radiation therapy is selected from x-ray
         radiation, gamma ray radiation, neutron radiation, proton radiation, external beam
         radiation therapy, and brachytherapy and the one or more chemotherapeutic
         agents is selected from a folate antagonist, methotrexate and pemetrexed; a purine
         antagonist, cladribine, clofarabine, fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, nelarabine,
         pentostatin; a pyrimidine antagonist, capecitabine, cytarabine, 5-fluorouracil,
         gemcitabine, hydroxyurea; a biologic response modifier, interferon-alfa;
                                               -91-

WO 2013/169355                                                                PCT/US2013/031053
         bleomycin; a DNA alkylating agent, nitrosureas, carmustine, lomustine; a DNA
         cross-linking drug, a DNA alkylating agent, bendamustine, chlorambucil,
         cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine, melphalan, dacarbazine,
         temozolomide, procarbazine; asparaginase; an antibiotic, mitomycin; a platinum
         complex, carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin; a proteosome inhibitor, bortezomib; a
         spindle poison, a taxane, docetaxel, paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, a vinca, vinblastine,
         vincristine, vinorelbine; a topoisomerase inhibitor, an anthracycline, daunorubicin,
         daunomycin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, a camptothecine, irinotecan, topotecan, a
         podophyllotoxin, etoposide, teniposide, mitoxantrone; a tyrosine kinase inhibitor,
         erlotinib, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, sorafenib, and sunitinib.
  29.    The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein the patient treatment regimen further
         comprises a bone marrow transplant.
  30.    The method of claim 29, wherein the bone marrow transplant is autologous or
         allogeneic.
  31.    The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein the patient treatment regimen further
         comprises a stem cell transplant.
  32.    The method of claim 31, wherein the stem cell transplant is autologous or
         allogeneic.
  33.    The method of claim 1, wherein the patient treatment regimen comprises antibody
         therapy.
  34.    The method of claim 33, in which one or more antibodies selected from abciximab
         and rituximab is administered to the patient.
  35.    The method of claim 33 or 34, wherein the patient treatment regimen further
         comprises chemotherapy.
  36.    The method of claim 35, in which one or more chemotherapeutic agent
          administered to the patient is selected from a folate antagonist, methotrexate and
         pemetrexed; a purine antagonist, cladribine, clofarabine, fludarabine, 6
         mercaptopurine, nelarabine, pentostatin; a pyrimidine antagonist, capecitabine,
          cytarabine, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, hydroxyurea; a biologic response
                                                -92-

WO 2013/169355                                                               PCT/US2013/031053
         modifier, interferon-alfa; bleomycin; a DNA alkylating agent, nitrosureas,
         carmustine, lomustine; a DNA cross-linking drug, a DNA alkylating agent,
         bendamustine, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, mechlorethamine,
         melphalan, dacarbazine, temozolomide, procarbazine; asparaginase; an antibiotic,
         mitomycin; a platinum complex, carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin; a proteosome
         inhibitor, bortezomib; a spindle poison, a taxane, docetaxel, paclitaxel, nab
         paclitaxel, a vinca, vinblastine, vincristine, vinorelbine; a topoisomerase inhibitor,
         an anthracycline, daunorubicin, daunomycin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, a
         camptothecine, irinotecan, topotecan, a podophyllotoxin, etoposide, teniposide,
         mitoxantrone; a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, erlotinib, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib,
         sorafenib, and sunitinib.
  37.    The method of claim 33 or 34, wherein the patient treatment regimen further
         comprises radiation therapy.
  38.    The method of claim 37, in which the radiation therapy is x-ray radiation, gamma
         ray radiation, neutron radiation, proton radiation, external beam radiation therapy,
         or brachytherapy.
  39.    The method of claim 1, wherein the patient treatment regimen comprises a
         transplant.
  40.    The method of claim 39, wherein the transplant is a liver transplant, a bone
         marrow transplant, or a stem cell transplant.
  41.    The method of claim 40, wherein the transplant is an autologous or allogeneic
         bone marrow transplant.
  42.    The method of claim 40, wherein the transplant is an autologous or allogeneic
         stem cell transplant.
  43.    The method of claim 1, wherein the patient treatment regimen comprises one or
         more agent(s) selected from valproic acid, proton pump inhibitors, interferon,
         interferon-alpha, isotretinoin, panobinostat, thiazide diurectics, montelukast
         sodium (Singulair), quinidine, quinine, gold, sulfonamides, cephalothin,
         phenylbutazone, diphenylhydantoin, digitoxin and phenothiazine tranquilizers,
         heparin, and combinations thereof.
                                               -93-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  44.    The method of claim 1, wherein the patient treatment regiment comprises one or
         more agent(s) selected from cyclophosphamide, psychotropic drugs,
         anticonvulsants, clozapine, olanzapine, thionamides, ticlopidine, carbimazole,
         dapsone, dipyrone, methimazole, penicillin G, procainamide, propylthiouracil,
         trimethoprim, chloramphenicol, penicillins, cephalosporins, aminoglycosides,
         tetracyclines, nitroimidazoles, nitrofurantoin, flucytosine, rifampin, isoniazid,
         ethambutol, dapsone, sulfonamide antibiotics, clomiprimine, thiacetazone,
         dipyrone, sulfasalazine, mesalazine, ciprofloxacin, chloroquin, mebendazole,
         terbendafine, pyrimethamine, levamisole, ristocetin, griseofulvin, phenothiazines,
         benzodiazepines, amoxapine, meprobamate, barbiturates, risperidone, imipramine,
         desipramine, thiothixene, haloperidol, valproic acid, hydantoins, succinimides,
         trimethadione, carbamazepine, procainamide, quinidine, propafenone, captopril,
         propranolol, hydralazine, methyldopa, ibuprofen, indomethacin, sulindac,
         tolmetin, aspirin, aminopyine, phenylbutazone, diflunisal, benoxaprofen,
         allopurinol, colchicine, propylthiouracil, thiouracil, methimazole, carbimazole,
         thiocyanate, potassium perchlorate, cimetidine, ranatadine, tripelennamine,
         methaphenilene, thenalidine, mianserin, bromopheneramine, quinine,
         hydroxychloroquin, quinacrine, diazoxide, dihydropyridines, vesnarinone,
         aprindine, imipenem/cilastatin, zidovudine, fludarabine, acyclovir, turbinafine,
         aminoglutethimide, famotidine, bezafibrate, flutamide, tamoxafen, penicillamine,
         retinoic acid, metoclopramide, phenindone, dinitrophenol, ethacrynic acid,
         rauwolfia, ethanol, chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, thiazides, spironolactone,
         methazolamide, acetazolamide, levodopa and combinations thereof.
  45.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising
         adjunctively administering one or more additional agent or therapy.
  46.    The method of claim 45, wherein at least one of the one or more additional agent
         or therapy is anti-thrombocytopenic, anti-neutropenic, pro-thrombopoietic, pro
         neutropenic, or anti-coagulant.
  47.    The method of claim 46, wherein one or more additional agent or therapy is anti
         thrombocytopenic, pro-thrombopoietic, or both.
                                              -94-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  48.    The method of claim 47, wherein one or more additional agent or therapy is
         selected from the group consisting of: platelet transfusion, splenectomy,
         corticosteroids, prednisone, dexamethasone, platelet clearance inhibitors, danazol,
         thrombopoeitin, thrombopoietin mimetics, eltrombopag, thrombopoietin receptor
         agonists, romiplostim, interleukins, recombinant human interleukin-1,
         recombinant human interleukin-3, recombinant human interleukin-6, recombinant
         human interleukin- 11, lithium carbonate, and folate.
  49.    The method of claim 46, wherein one or more additional agent or therapy is anti
         neutropenic, pro-granulopoietic, or both.
  50.    The method of claim 49, wherein one or more additional agent or therapy is
         selected from the group consisting of: recombinant human granulocyte colony
         stimulating factor, filgrastim, pegfilgrastim, recombinant human granulocyte
         macrophage colony stimulating factor, and sargramostim.
  51.    The method of claim 46, where one or more additional agent is an anti
         coagulation agent.
  52.    The method of claim 51, wherein the anti-coagulation agent is an unfractionated
         heparin or a low molecular weight heparin.
  53.    The method of claim 52, wherein the low molecular weight heparin is selected
         from the group consisting of: dalteparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, reviparin, and
         tinzaperin.
  54.    The method of any one of the preceding claims wherein the PF4-interacting
         heparinoid is administered parenterally.
  55.    The method of claim 54, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered
         intravenously.
  56.    The method of claim 55, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered
         as one or more bolus injections.
  57.    The method according to claim 56, wherein the one or more bolus injections are
         administered at a dose of about 1 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, about 1 mg/kg to
                                               -95-

WO 2013/169355                                                           PCT/US2013/031053
         about 10 mg/kg, about 1 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, about 2 mg/kg to about 4
         mg/kg.
  58.    The method of claim 55, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered
         as a continuous infusion.
  59.    The method of claim 58, wherein the continuous infusion is administered at a dose
         of about 0.1 mg/kg/hr to about 2.5 mg/kg/hr, about 0.2 mg/kg/hr to about 2
         mg/kg/hr, about 0.3 mg/kg/hr to about 1.5 mg/kg/hr, or about 0.3 mg/kg/hr to
         about 0.5 mg/kg/hr.
  60.    The method of claim 55, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered
         as a bolus followed or preceeded by a continuous infusion.
  61.    The method of claim 60, wherein the bolus injection is administered at a dose of
         about 1 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, about 1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, about 1
         mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg, about 2 mg/kg to about 4 mg/kg and the continuous
         infusion is administered at a dose of about 0.1 mg/kg/hr to about 2.5 mg/kg/hr,
         about 0.2 mg/kg/hr to about 2 mg/kg/hr, about 0.3 mg/kg/hr to about 1.5 mg/kg/hr,
         or about 0.3 mg/kg/hr to about 0.5 mg/kg/hr.
  62.    The method of claim 58 or 60, wherein the continuous infusion is carried out for a
         period of about 0.5 hours, about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours, about 4
         hours, about 5 hours, about 6 hours, about 7 hours, about 8 hours, about 9 hours,
         about 10 hours, about 12 hours, about 16 hours, about 20 hours, about 24 hours,
         about 36 hours, about 48 hours, about 1 day, about 2, days, or about 3 days.
  63.    The method of claim 54, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is administered
         subcutaneously.
  64.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid is administered concurrently with the patient treatment
         regimen.
  65.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 63, wherein the PF4-interacting
         heparinoid is administered sequentially or separately with the patient treatment
         regimen.
                                             -96-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  66.    The method according to claim 65, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is
         administered sequentially before, after, or both before and after the patient
         treatment regimen.
  67.    The method according to claim 65, wherein the PF4-interacting heparinoid is
         administered separately before, after, or both before and after the patient treatment
         regimen.
  68.    The method according to any one of claims 65 to 67, further comprising
         administering the PF4-interacting heparinoid concurrently with the patient
         treatment regimen.
  69.    A method of promoting thrombopoiesis in a human subject comprising:
                  administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to the
         subject.
  70.    The method of claim 69, wherein the subject is thrombocytopenic.
  71.    The method of claim 70, wherein the subject is diagnosed with thrombocytopenia
         selected from immune-mediate thrombocytopenia, drug-induced
         thrombocytopenia, or radiation-induced thrombocytopenia.
  72.    The method of claim 71, wherein the subject is diagnosed with immune
         thrombocytopenic purpura.
  73.    The method of claim 71, wherein the subject is diagnosed with radiation-induced
         thrombocytopenia.
  74.    The method of claim 73, wherein the radiation-induced thrombocytopenia is
         caused by exposure to ionizing radiation, optionally non-therapeutic exposure to
         ionizing radiation.
  75.    The method of claim 69, wherein the subject is non-thrombocytopenic.
  76.    A method of promoting neutrophil production in a human subject comprising:
                  administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to the
         subject.
  77.    The method of claim 76, wherein the subject is neutropenic.
                                              -97-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
  78.    The method of claim 77, wherein the subject is diagnosed with neutropenia
         selected from immune-mediate neutropenia, drug-induced neutropenia, or
         radiation-induced neutropenia.
  79.    The method of claim 78, wherein the subject is diagnosed with radiation-induced
         neutropenia.
  80.    The method of claim 79, wherein the radiation-induced neutropenia is caused by
         exposure to ionizing radiation, optionally non-therapeutic exposure to ionizing
         radiation.
  81.    The method of claim 76, wherein the subject is non-neutropenic.
  82.    A method of increasing efficacy of a patient treatment regimen having a
         myelosuppressive effect comprising:
                 administering a therapeutically effective amount of a PF4-interacting
         heparinoid to a patient as an adjunct to the patient treatment regimen having a
         myelosuppressive side effect, without reducing the dose and/or dosage frequency
         of the patient treatment regimen as compared to a reference treatment.
  83.    The method of claim 82, which further comprises administering a dose of the
         patient treatment regimen higher than the dose administered when the patient
         treatment regimen is administered in the absence of adjunctive administration of a
         PF4-interacting heparinoid.
  84.    The method of claim 82 or 83, which further comprises administering an amount
         of a PF4-interacting heparinoid sufficient to maintain platelet levels above levels
         that indicate grade 3 or grade 4 thrombocytopenia.
  85.    The method of claim 82 or 83, which further comprises:
                 determining an initial platelet count in a blood sample from a human
         patient and administering an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid effective to
         raise the patient's platelet count above a threshold level below which therapy with
         patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is
         contraindicated.
  86.    The method of claim 82 or 83, which further comprises:
                                               -98-

WO 2013/169355                                                             PCT/US2013/031053
                 administering an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid sufficient to
         maintain neutrophil levels above levels that indicate grade 3 or grade 4
         neutropenia.
  87.    The method of claim 82 or 83, which further comprises:
                 determining an initial neutrophil count in a blood sample from a human
         patient and administering an amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid effective to
         raise the patient's neutrophil count above a threshold level below which therapy
         with patient treatment regimen having a myelosuppressive side effect is
         contraindicated.
  88.    The method according to any one of claims 82 to 87, which further comprises
         administering adjunctive to the PF4-interacting heparinoid one or more agents or
         therapies, wherein the agents or therapies are anti-neutropenic, anti
         thrombocytopenic, or anticoagulant.
  89.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid is capable of binding PF4.
  90.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid has an average molecular weight of about 8 kDa to about
         15 kDa, of about 11 kDa to about 14 kDa, or of about 11 kDa to about 13 kDa.
  91.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid is substantially non-anti-coagulant.
  92.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid is substantially desulfated at the 2-0 position or the 3-0
         position.
  93.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PF4
         interacting heparinoid is substantially 2-0, 3-0 desulfated.
  94.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the patient is a mammal.
  95.    The method of claim 94, wherein the mammal is a human.
  96.    The method of claim 95, wherein the human is an adult or a child.
                                              -99-

WO 2013/169355                                                           PCT/US2013/031053
  97.    The method of any one of claims 94 to 96, wherein the patient is diagnosed with
         cancer.
  98.    The method of claim 97, wherein the cancer is pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer,
         breast cancer, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, lymphoma, liver cancer,
         osteosarcoma or leukemia.
  99.    The method of claim 97, wherein the patient has an elevated level of platelet
         factor 4 (PF4).
  100.   The method of claim 99, wherein the PF4 level in serum is elevated.
  101.   The method of claim 99, wherein the PF4 level in platelets is elevated.
  102.   The method of claim 99, wherein the cancer is pancreatic cancer, colorectal
         cancer, osteosarcoma or leukemia.
  103.   The method of any one of claims 94 to 96, wherein the patient is diagnosed with
         an autoimmune disease.
  104.   The method of claim. 103, wherein the autoimmune disease is selected from
         rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and multiple sclerosis.
  105.   The method of any one of claims 94 to 96, wherein the patient has a condition or
         disease causing impaired liver function.
  106.   The method of claim 105, wherein the patient is diagnosed with liver cancer, viral
         hepatitis, or liver cirrhosis.
  107.   The method of any one of claims 94 to 96, wherein the patient has an elevated
         level of PF4.
  108.   The method of claim 107, wherein the PF4 level in serum is elevated.
  109.   The method of claim 107, wherein the PF4 level in platelets is elevated.
  110.   The method of any one of claims 94 to 96, wherein the patient has antibodies
         against a heparin-PF4 complex.
  111.   A method of treating a patient with cancer, comprising:
                                              -100-

WO 2013/169355                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
         administering ODSH adjunctive to a myelosuppressive chemotherapeutic
         treatment regimen to said patient.
  112.   The method of claim 111, wherein the myelosuppressive chemotherapeutic
         treatment regimen comprises a taxane.
  113.   The method of claim 112, wherein the taxane is taxol.
  114.   The method of claim 113, wherein the taxol is paclitaxel.
  115.   The method of claim 114, wherein the paclitaxel is nab-paclitaxel.
  116.   The method of any one of claims 111 to 115, wherein the patient has pancreatic
         cancer, ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer,
         recurrent breast cancer, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, urothelial cancer,
         lung cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, lymphoma, liver
         cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, osteosarcoma, leukemia, acute myelogenous
         leukemia or pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
  117.   In a method of treating cancer by administering one or more chemotherapeutic
         agents having a myelosuppressive side effect, the improvement comprising:
         adjunctively administering an effective amount of a PF4-interacting heparinoid to
         a patient in need thereof.
  118.    The method of claim 117, wherein the one or more chemotherapeutic agents
         comprises a taxane.
  119.   The method of claim 118, wherein the taxane is taxol.
  120.   The method of claim 119, wherein the taxol is paclitaxel.
  121.   The method of claim 120, wherein the paclitaxel is nab-paclitaxel.
  122.   The method of any one of claims 117 to 121, wherein the patient has pancreatic
         cancer, ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer,
         recurrent breast cancer, head and neck cancer, bladder cancer, urothelial cancer,
         lung cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, lymphoma, liver
         cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, osteosarcoma, leukemia, acute myelogenous
         leukemia or pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
                                             -101-

WO 2013/169355                                                            PCT/US2013/031053
  123.   The method of any one of claims 117 to 122, wherein the PF4-interacting
         heparinoid is ODSH.
  124.   The method of claim 111, wherein the myelosuppressive treatment regimen is a
         regimen suitable for treating acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).
  125.   The method of claim 124, wherein the regimen suitable for treating AML
         comprises induction chemotherapy.
  126.   The method of claim 124 or 125, wherein the regimen suitable for treating AML
         comprises consolidation chemotherapy.
  127.   The method of any one of claims 124, 125, and 126, wherein the
         myelosuppressive treatment regimen comprises cytarabine and, optionally, an
         anthracycline.
  128.   The method of any one of claims 111 and 124 to 127, wherein the patient has
         AML.
  129.   The method of claim 117, wherein the one or more chemotherapeutic agents
         having a myelosuppressive effect is part of a regimen for treating AML.
  130.   The method of claim 129, wherein the regimen for treating AML comprises
         induction chemotherapy.
  131.   The method of claim 129 or 130, wherein the regimen for treating AML
         comprises consolidation chemotherapy.
  132.   The method of any one of claims 129-131, wherein the regimen for treating AML
         comprises cytarabine.
  133.   The method of claim 129 or 130, wherein the regimen for treating AML
         comprises an anthracycline.
  134.   The method of any one of claims 128 to 133, wherein the PF4-interacting
         heparinoid is ODSH.
                                             -102-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
