ABSTRACT
IDENTIFICATION OF MHC CLASS I PHOSPHO-PEPTIDE ANTIGENS FROM
BREAST CANCER UTILIZING SHLA TECHNOLOGY AND COMPLEMENTARY
ENRICHMENT STRATEGIES
The present invention describes novel tumor-specific phosphorylated peptides, nucleic acids
encoding those peptides, and antibodies generated against said peptides. The genes, peptides,
and antibodies described herein may be used as diagnostic indicators of the presence of breast
cancer and/or used in therapeutics to treat breast cancer.

       IDENTIFICATION OF MHC CLASS I PHOSPHO-PEPTIDE ANTIGENS FROM
                   BREAST CANCER UTILIZING SHLA TECHNOLOGY AND
                         COMPLEMENTARY ENRICHMENT STRATEGIES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Serial No. 61/652,028, filed May 25,
2012 and U.S. Provisional Serial No. 61/667,697, filed July 3, 2012, the disclosures of each of
which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013266066
which is the Australian National Phase of PCT/US2013/042908. The entire contents of each of
which is incorporated herein by reference.
US Government Rights
This invention was made with United States Government support under Grant No. RO 1 A133993
awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in
the invention.
Sequence Listig
        The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII
format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy,
created on May 28, 2013, is named 0099_0003_WOlSLtxt and is 39140 bytes in size.
        On page 5, line 20, please insert "(SEQ ID NO: 13)" after the sequence.
        On page 5, line 23, please insert "(SEQ ID NO: 14)" after the sequence.
        On page 3 1, line 28, please insert "(SEQ ID NO: 13)" after the sequence.
        On page 31, line 31, please insert "(SEQ ID NO: 14)" after the sequence.
        On page 34, line 15, please insert "(SEQ ID NO: 172)" after the sequence.
 Background
 The mammalian immune system has evolved a variety of mechanisms to protect the host from
 cancerous cells. An important component of this response is mediated by cells referred to as T
 cells. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) are specialized T cells that primarily function by
 recognizing and killing cancerous cells or infected cells, but they can also function by secreting
 soluble molecules referred to as ytokines that can mediate a variety of effects on the immune
 system, T helper cells primarily function by recognizing antigen on specialized antigen
 presenting cells, and in tum secreting cytokines that activate B cells, T cells, and macrophages.

                                                     2
  A variety of evidence suggests that immunotherapy designed to stimulate a tumor-specific CTL
  response would be effective in controlling cancer. For example, it has been shown that human
  CTL recognize sarcomas (Slovin et aL, 1986, J Inmunol 137, 3042-3048), renal cell carcinomas
  (Schendel et al, 1993, J Immunol 151, 42094220), colorectal carcinomas (Jacob et al., 1997, Int
  J Cancer 71, 325-332), ovarian carcinomas (Peoples et al., 1993, Surgery 114, 227-234),
  pancreatic carcinomas (Peiper et al, 1997, Eur J Immunol 27, 1115-1123), squamous tumors of
  the head and neck (Yasumura et at, 1993, Cancer Res 53, 1461-1468), and squamous
  carcinomas of the lung (Slingluff et at, 1994, Cancer Res 54, 2731-2737; Yoshino et aL, 1994,
  Cancer Res 54, 3387-3390). The largest number of reports of human tumor-reactive CTLs,
  however, has concerned melanomas (Boon et al., 1994, Annu Rev Immunol 12, 337365). The
  ability of tumor-specific CTL to mediate tumor regression, in both human (Parmiani et al., 2002,
  J Natl Cancer Inst 94, 805-818; Weber, 2002, Cancer Invest 20, 208-221) and animal models,
  suggests that methods directed at increasing CTL activity would likely have a beneficial effect
  with respect to tumor treatment.
  Melanoma, or skin cancer, is a disease that is diagnosed in approximately 54,200 persons per
  year. Conventional therapy for the disease includes surgery, radiation therapy, and
  chemotherapy. In spite of these approaches to treatment, approximately 7,600 individuals die in
  the United States every year due to melanoma. Overall, the 5-year survival rate for the disease is
  88%. The survival rate drops, however, in more advanced stages of the disease with only about
  50% of Stage III patients, and 20-30% of Stage IV patients surviving past five years. In patients
  where the melanoma has metastasized to distant sites, the 5-year survival dips to only 12%.
  Clearly, there is a population of melanoma patients that is in need of better treatment options.
5 More recently, in an attempt to decrease the number of deaths attributed to melanoma,
  immunotherapy has been added to the arsenal of treatments used against the disease.
  In order for CTL to kill or secrete cytokines in response to a cancer cell, the CTL must first
  recognize the cancer cell (Townsend and Bodmer, 1989). This process involves the interaction
D of the T cell receptor, located on the surface of the CTL, with what is generically referred to as
  an MHC-peptide complex which is located on the surface of the cancerous cell. MHC (major
  histocompatibility-complex)-encoded molecules have been subdivided into two types, and are

                                                     3
  referred to as class I and class II MHC-encoded molecules, In the human immune system, MHC
  molecules are referred to as human leukocyte antigens (HLA). Within the MHC complex.
   located on chromosome six, are three different loci that encode for class I MHC molecules.
  MHC molecules encoded at these loci are referred to as HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C. The genes
  that can be encoded at each of these loci are extremely polymorphic, and thus, different
  individuals within the population express diflrent class I MHC molecules on the surface of their
  cells. HLA-A I, H LA~A2, HLA-A3, HLA-B7, and HLA-B8 are examples of different class I
  MHC molecules that can be expressed from these loci,
  The peptides which associate with the MHC molecules can either be derived from proteins made
  within the cell, in which case they typically associate with class I MHC molecules (Rock and
  Goldberg, 1999, Annu Rev Immunol 17, 739-779); or they can be derived from proteins which
  are acquired from outside of the cell, in which case they typically associate with class II MHC
  molecules (Watts, 1997, Annu Rev Immunol 15, 821-850), The peptides that evoke a cancer
  specific CTL response most typically associate with class I MHC molecules. The peptides
  themselves are typically nine amino acids in length, but can vary from a minimum length of
  eight amino acids to a maximum of twelve amino acids in length. Tumor antigens may also bind
  to class II MHC molecules on antigen presenting cells and provoke a T helper cell response. The
  peptides that bind to class II MHC molecules are generally twelve to nineteen amino acids in
  length, but can be as short as ten amino acids and as long as thirty amino acids.
  The process by which intact proteins are degraded into peptides is referred to as antigen
  processing. Two major pathways of antigen processing occur within cells (Rock and Goldberg,
  1999, Aimu Rev Immunol 17, 739-779). One pathway, which is largely restricted to cells that
5 are antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells, macrophages, and B cells, degrades proteins
  that are typically phagocytosed or endocytosed into the cell, Peptides derived in this pathway
  typically bind to class II MHC molecules. A second pathway of antigen processing is present in
  essentially all cells of the body. This second pathway primarily degrades proteins that are made
  within the cells, and the peptides derived from this pathway primarily bind to class I MHC
0 molecules. Antigen processing by this latter pathway involves polypeptide synthesis and
  proteolysis in the cytoplasm, followed by transport of peptides to the plasma membrane for
  presentation. These peptides, initially being transported into the endoplasmic reticulum of the

                                                     4
  cell, become associated with newly synthesized class I MHC molecules and the resulting
  complexes are then transported to the cell surface. Peptides derived from membrane and
  secreted proteins have also been identified. In some cases these peptides correspond to the signal
  sequence of the proteins which is cleaved from the protein by the signal peptidase. In other
  cases, it is thought that some fraction of the membrane and secreted proteins are transported from
  the endoplasmic reticulum into the cytoplasm where processing subsequently occurs.
  Once bound to the class I MHC molecule, the peptides are recognized by antigen-specific
  receptors on CTL, Several methods have been developed to identify the peptides recognized by
  CTL, each method of which relies on the ability of a CTL to recognize and kill only those cells
  expressing the appropriate class I MHC molecule with the peptide bound to it. Mere expression
  of the class I MIHC molecule is insufficient to trigger the CTL to kill the target cell if the
  antigenic peptide is not bound to the class I MHC molecule, Such peptides can be derived from
  a non-self source, such as a pathogen (for example, following the infection of a cell by a
  bacterium or a virus) or from a self-derived protein within a cell, such as a cancerous cell. The
  tumor antigens from which the peptides are derived can broadly be categorized as differentiation
  antigens, cancer/testis antigens, mutated gene products, widely expressed proteins, and viral
  antigens (Castelli et al., 2000, J Cell Physiol 182, 323-331).
  Immunization with melanoma-derived, class I or class II MIIC-encoded molecule associated
  peptides, or with a precursor polypeptide or protein that contains the peptide, or with a gene that
  encodes a polypeptide or protein containing the peptide, are forms of immunotherapy that can be
  employed in the treatment of melanoma. This form of immunotherapy requires that immunogens
  be identified so that they can be formulated into an appropriate vaccine, Although a large
5 number of tumor-associated peptide antigens recognized by tumor reactive CTL have been
  identified, there are few examples of antigens that are derived from proteins that are selectively
  expressed on a broad array of tumors, as well as associated with cellular proliferation and/or
  transformation. Attractive candidates for this type of antigen are peptides derived from proteins
  that are differentially phosphorylated on serine (Ser), threonine (Thr), and tyrosine (Tyr) (Zarling
0 et al, 2000, J Exp Ned 192 1755-1762), Due to the increased phosphorylation of cellular
  proteins in transformed cells as compared to normal cells, there are likely to be new
  phosphorylated peptides presented on the cell surface available for recognition by CTL.

                                                       5
  However, these are not predictable from simple inspection of protein sequences, and the exact
  phosphorylation sites of many proteins, as well as their phosphorylation state in a tumor cell,
  remain unknown.
  There is a long felt need in the art for methods of identifying tumor antigens, and for methods of
  treating or preventing cancer based on the use of such tumor antigens. The present invention
  satisfies these needs.
  Summary of the Invention
  The present invention describes novel tumor-specific peptides and antibodies generated against
  said peptides. The peptides and antibodies described herein may be used as diagnostic indicators
  of the presence of cancer and/or used in therapeutics to treat and prevent cancer. For the present
  invention, mass spectrometry has been used to identify phosphorylated peptides associated with
  the class I MHC molecule HLA-A*0201 and HLA-B7 and displayed on melanoma cells. The
  invention also provides novel methods for identifying such peptides.
  In one aspect, the cancer is breast cancer.
  Various aspects and embodiments of the invention are described in further detail below.
  Brief Description of the Drawings
  Figure 1, comprising Figures 1A and 1B, is a graphic illustration of the recognition of naturally
  processed and presented phosphorylated peptides on cancer cells by the phosphopeptide-specific
  CTL. Phosphopeptide-specific CTL were incubated with the following cancer cell lines or EBV
5 transformed B lymphoblastoid cell lines (BLCL) COV413.AAD.A4 ovarian carcinoma,
  DM331 AAD.A4 and SLM2.AADA I melanomas, MCF7.AAD.A2 and MDAMB231 AAD
  breast carcinomas, and JY EBV-BLCL. Supernatants were harvested and evaluated for the
  presence of marine IFNy (produced by murine CTL lines). As a positive control, cancer cells
  were pulsed with the specific phosphopeptide to show that they are capable of presenting
0 exogenously added peptide. In Figure 1A, two phosphopeptide-specific CTL cell lines, 6850 and
  6960 that are specific for the phosphopeptide GLLGpSPVRA, recognize the phosphopeptide on
  all the cancer cell lines, but not the control cell line. In Figure 1B, two phosphopeptide-specific

                                                    6
  CTL cell lines, 5183 and 63 that are specific for the phosphopeptide RVApSPTSGV, recognize
  the phosphopeptide on all the cancer cell lines, but not the control cell line. The ordinate
  indicates murine IFNU' in pg/nil. The abscissa indicates each cell line.
  Figure 2 presents a Table of phosphopeptides identified for breast cancer by the Class I MHC
  Molecule on the HLA B*0702 allele,
  Figure 3 graphically demonstrates the MHC class I pathway.
  Figure 4 schematically illustrates an overview of sample analysis.
  Figure 5 describes the B*0702 motif showing amino acid anchors.
  Figure 6 shows the total number of peptides in IMAC and TiO2 experiments and schematically
  depicts the overlap between the peptides identified in an IMAC analysis of 184B5 and a TiO2
  analysis.
  Detailed De        rtiof the Invention
  Definitions
  In describing and claiming the invention, the following terminology will be used in accordance
  with the definitions set forth below.
  As used herein, the articles "a" and "an" refer to one or to more than one, i.e., to at least one, of
  the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "an element" means one element or
  more than one element.
  As used herein, amino acids are represented by the full name thereof, by the three letter code
  corresponding thereto, or by the one-letter code corresponding thereto, as indicated in the
  following table:
0
         Full Name                Three-Letter Code              One-Letter Code
       Aspartic Acid                    Asp                               D

                                                     7
       Glutanlic Acid                     Gln                             B
            Lys ne                         Lys                            K
           Arginine                       Arg                             R
           Histidine                      His                             H
           Tyrosine                        Tyr                            Y
           Cysteine                       Cys                             C
         Asparagine                       Asn                             N
          Glutamine                       Gin                             Q
            Serine                         Ser                            S
          Threonine                       Thr                             T
           Glycine                        Gly                             G
           Alanine                        Ala                             A
            Vahne                          VaI                            V
           Leucine                        Leu                             L
          Isoleucine                       lie
         Methionine                       Met                             M
            Proline                        Pro                            P
       Phenylalanine                      Phe                             F
         TryTptophan       [Typ                     ___W
  The expression "amino acid" as used herein is meant to include both natural and synthetic amino
  acids, and both D and L amino acids. "Standard amino acid" means any of the twenty standard
S L-amino acids commonly found in naturally occurring peptides. "Nonstandard amino acid
  residue" means any amino acid, other than the standard amino acids, regardless of whether it is
  prepared synthetically or derived from a natural source. As used herein, "synthetic amino acid"
  also encompasses chemically modified amino acids, including but not limited to salts, amino
  acid derivatives (such as amides), and substitutions. Amino acids contained within the peptides
0 of the present invention, and particularly at the carboxy- or amino-terminus, can be modified by
  methylation, amidation, acetylation or substitution with other chemical groups which can change
  the peptide's circulating half-life without adversely affecting their activity, Additionally, a
  disulfide linkage may be present or absent in the peptides of the invention.

                                                      8
  The term "amino acid" is used interchangeably with "amino acid residue," and may refer to a
  free amino acid and to an amino acid residue of a peptide. It will be apparent from the context in
  which the term is used whether it refers to a free amino acid or a residue of a peptide.
  Amino acids have the following general structure:
     R   C--COOH
          NH 2
  Amino acids may be classified into seven groups on the basis of the side chain
  R: (1) aliphatic side chains, (2) side chains containing a hydroxylic (OH) group, (3) side chains
  containing sulfur atoms, (4) side chains containing an acidic or amide group, (5) side chains
  containing a basic group, (6) side chains containing an aromatic ring, and (7) proline, an imino
  acid in which the side chain is fused to the amino group. The nomenclature used to describe the
  peptide compounds of the present invention follows the conventional practice wherein the amino
  group is presented to the left and the carboxy group to the right of each amino acid residue. In
  the formulae representing selected specific embodiments of the present invention, the amino-and
  carboxy-terminal groups, although not specifically shown, will be understood to be in the form
  they would assume at physiologic pH values, unless otherwise specified.
0 The term "basic" or "positively charged" amino acid as used herein, refers to amino acids in
  which the R groups have a net positive charge at pH 7.0, and include, but are not limited to, the
  standard amino acids lysine, arginine, and histidine.
  A disease or disorder is "alleviated" if the severity of a symptom of the disease or disorder, the
5 frequency with which such a symptom is experienced by a patient, or both, are reduced.
  The term "antigen" as used herein is defined as a molecule that provokes an immune response.
  This immune response may involve either antibody production, or the activation of specific
  immunological ly-competent cells, or both.
0 As used herein, the term "antibody" refers to a polyclonal or monoclonal antibody or a binding

                                                    9
fragment thereof such as Fab, F(ab')2 and Fv fragments.
As used herein, the term "antigen peptide" refers to a phosphorylated amino acid sequence
derived from a cancer cell, such as the sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
NOs:70-171 or a peptide at least or about 80, 85, 90, 95, 98, 99 or 100% identical thereto.
As used herein, the term "cancer cell-specific phosphopeptide" refers to a phosphopeptide, which
is expressed at higher levels in said cancer cell compared to its normal counterpart cell or tissue.
A "control" cell, tissue, sample, or subject is a cell, tissue, sample, or subject of the same type as
a test cell, tissue, sample, or subject. The control may, for example, be examined at precisely or
nearly the same time the test cell, tissue, sample, or subject is examined. The control may also,
for example, be examined at a time distant from the time at which the test cell, tissue, sample, or
subject is examined, and the results of the examination of the control ay be recorded so that the
recorded results may be compared with results obtained by examination of a test cell, tissue,
sample, or subject.
A "test" cell, tissue, sample, or subject is one being examined.
A "pathoindicative" cell, tissue, or sample is one which, when present, is an indication that the
animal in which the cell, tissue, or sample is located (or from which the tissue was obtained) is
afflicted with a disease or disorder. By way of example, the presence of one or more breast cells
in a lung tissue of an animal is an indication that the animal is afflicted with metastatic breast
cancer.
A tissue "normally comprises" a cell if one or more of the cell are present in the tissue in an
animal not afflicted with a disease or disorder.
As used herein, a "functional" biological molecule is a biological molecule in a form in which it
exhibits a property or activity by which it is characterized. A functional enzyme, for example, is
one which exhibits the characteristic catalytic activity by which the enzyme is characterized.
"Homologous" as used herein, refers to the subunit sequence similarity between two polymeric
molecules, e.g., between two nucleic acid molecules, e.g., two DNA molecules or two RNA

                                                       10
   molecules, or between two polypeptide molecules. When a subunit position in both of the two
   molecules is occupied by the same monomeric subunit, e.g, if a position in each of two DNA
   molecules is occupied by adenine, then they are homologous at that position, The homology
   between two sequences is a direct function of the number of matching or homologous positions,
   e.g., if half (e.g., five positions in a polymer ten subunits in length) of the positions in two
   compound sequences are homologous then the two sequences are 50% homologous, if 90% of
   the positions, e.g., 9 of 10, are matched or homologous, the two sequences share 90% homology.
   By way of example, the DNA sequences 3'ATTCC5' and 3'TATGGC share 50% homology.
   As used herein, homologyy" is used synonymously with "identity."
   The determination of percent identity between two nucleotide or amino acid sequences can be
   accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. For example, a mathematical algorithm useful for
   comparing two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul (1990, Proc. NatL. Acad. Sci.
   'USA 87:2264-2268), modified as in Karlin and Altschul (1993, Proc. Nat Acad. Sci. USA
   90:5873-5877). This algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of
   Altschul, et al. (1990, J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410), and can be accessed, for example at the
   National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) world wide web site. BLAST nucleotide
   searches can be performed with the NBLAST program (designated "blastn" at the NCBI web
 I site), using the following parameters: gap penalty = 5; gap extension penalty = 2; mismatch
   penalty = 3; match reward = 1; expectation value 10.0; and word size = 11 to obtain nucleotide
   sequences homologous to a nucleic acid described herein. BLAST protein searches can be
   performed with the XBLAST program (designated blastt" at the NCBI web site) or the NCBI
   "blastp" program, using the following parameters: expectation value 10.0, BLOSUM62 scoring
5  matrix to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to a protein molecule described herein. To
   obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes, Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described
   in Altschul et al. (1997, Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3389-3402). Alternatively, PSI-Blast or PHI
   Blast can be used to perform an iterated search which detects distant relationships between
   molecules (Id.) and relationships between molecules which share a common pattern, When
0  utilizing BLAST, Gapped BLAST, PSI-Blast, and PHI-Blast programs, the default parameters of
   the respective programs (e.g., XBLAST and NBLAST) can be used. See
   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.

 The percent identity between two sequences can be determined using techniques similar to those
 described above, with or without allowing gaps. In calculating percent identity, typically exact
 matches are counted.
 By the term "immunizing a subject against an antigen" is meant administering to a subject a
 composition, a peptide, a polypeptide, or a fragment, derivative, or modification thereof, a
 protein complex, a DNA encoding a protein complex, an antibody or a DNA encoding an
 antibody, which elicits an immune response in the human which immune response provides
protection to the human against a disease caused by the antigen or an organism which expresses
 the antigen.
As used herein, an "instructional material" includes a publication, a recording, a diagram, or any
other medium of expression, which can be used to communicate the usefulness of the
composition of the invention for its designated use. The instructional material of the kit of the
invention may, for example, be affixed to a container, which contains the composition or be
shipped together with a container which contains the composition. Alternatively, the
instructional material may be shipped separately from the container with the intention that the
instructional material and the composition be used cooperatively by the recipient.
As used herein, a "ligand" is a compound that specifically binds to a target compound or
molecule. A ligand "specifically binds to" or "is specifically reactive with" a compound when
the ligand functions in a binding reaction which is determinative of the presence of the
compound in a sample of heterogeneous compounds.
As used herein, a "peptide" encompasses a sequence of 3 or more amino acids wherein the
amino acids are naturally occurring or synthetic (non-naturally occurring) amino acids. Peptide
mimetics include peptides having one or more of the following modifications:
          1. peptides wherein one or more of the peptidyl -C(O)NR-- linkages (bonds) have been
         replaced by a non-peptidyl linkage such as a -CH2-carbamate linkage
         (--CH 2 OC(O)NR-), a phosphonate linkage, a -CH2-sulfonamide (--CH2-S(O)2NR--)
         linkage, a urea (--N-C(O)NH-) linkage, a --CH2-secondary amine linkage, or with an

                                                     12
          alkylated peptidyl linkage (-C(O)NR--) wherein R is C I-C4 alkyl;
          2. peptides wherein the N-terminus is derivatized to a --NRR, group, to a - NRC(O)R
          group, to a --NRC(O)OR group, to a --NRS(O)2R group, to a --NHC(O)NHR group
          where R and RI are hydrogen or C1-C4 alkyl with the proviso that R and RI are not both
          hydrogen;
          3. peptides wherein the C terminus is derivatized to --C(O)R2 where R2 is selected from
          the group consisting of C -C4 alkoxy, and --N.R3R4 where R3 and R4 are independently
          selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1-C4 alkyl.
  "Polypeptide" refers to a polymer composed of amino acid residues, related naturally occurring
  structural variants, and synthetic non-naturally occurring analogs thereof linked via peptide
  bonds, related naturally occurring structural variants, and synthetic non-naturally occurring
  analogs thereof Synthetic polypeptides can be synthesized, for example, using an automated
  polypeptide synthesizer.
  The term "protein" typically refers to large polypeptides.
  Naturally occurring amino acid residues in peptides are abbreviated as recommended by the
  IUPAC-IUB Biochemical Nomenclature Commission as follows: Phenylalanine is Phe or F;
  Leucine is Leu or L; Isoleucine is Ile or 1; Methionine is Met or M; Norleucine is Nle; Valine is
  Val or V; Serine is Ser or S; Proline is Pro or P; Threonine is Thr or T; Alanine is Ala or A;
  Tyrosine is Tyr or Y; Histidine is His or H; Glutamine is Gin or   Q; Asparagine  is Asn or N;
5 Lysine is Lys or K; Aspartic Acid is Asp or D; Glutamic Acid is Glu or E; Cysteine is Cys or C;
  Tryptophan is Trp or W; Arginine is Arg or R; Glycine is Gly or G, and Xaa or X is any amino
  acid. Other naturally occurring amino acids include, by way of example, 4-hydroxyproline, 5
  hydroxylysine, and the like.
0 Synthetic or non-naturally occurring amino acids refer to amino acids which do not naturally
  occur in vivo but which, nevertheless, can be incorporated into the peptide structures described
  herein, The resulting "synthetic peptide" contains amino acids other than the 20 naturally

                                                     13
   occurring, genetically encoded amino acids at one, two, or more positions of the peptides. For
   instance, naphthylalanine can be substituted for tryptophan to facilitate synthesis. Other synthetic
   amino acids that can be substituted into peptides include L-hydroxypropyl, L-3,4
   dihydroxyphenylalanyl, alpha-amino acids such as L-alpha-hydroxylysyl and D-alpha
  methylalanyl, L-alpharmethylalanyl, beta.-amino acids, and isoquinolyl. D amino acids and
  non-naturally occurring synthetic amino acids can also be incorporated into the peptides. Other
  derivatives include replacement of the naturally occurring side chains of the 20 genetically
  encoded amino acids (or any L or D amino acid) with other side chains.
  As used herein, the term "conservative amino acid substitution" is defined herein as an amino
  acid exchange within one of the following five groups:
    .      Small aliphatic, nonpolar or slightly polar residues: Ala, Ser, Thr, Pro, Gly;
  IL       Polar, negatively charged residues and their amides: Asp, Asn, Glu, Gin;
  IIL      Polar, positively charged residues: His, Arg, Lys;
  IV.      Large, aliphatic, nonpolar residues: Met Leu, lie, Val, Cys
  V.       Large, aromatic residues:   Phe, Tyr, Trp
  As used herein, the term "purified" and like terms relate to an enrichment of a molecule or
  compound relative to other components normally associated with the molecule or compound in a
  native environment. The term "purified" does not necessarily indicate that complete purity of
  the particular molecule has been achieved during the process. A "highly purified" compound as
  used herein refers to a compound that is greater than 90% pure.
  As used herein, the term pharmaceuticallyy acceptable carrier" includes any of the standard
5 pharmaceutical carriers, such as a phosphate buffered saline solution, water, emulsions such as
  an oil/water or water/oil emulsion, and various types of wetting agents. The term also
  encompasses any of the agents approved by a regulatory agency of the US Federal government
  or listed in the US Pharmacopeia for use in animals, including humans,
3 A "subject" of diagnosis or treatment is a mammal, including a human.
  As used herein, the term "treating" includes prophylaxis of the specific disorder or condition, or

                                                     14
   alleviation of the symptoms associated with a specific disorder or condition and/or preventing or
  eliminating said symptoms. A "prophylactic" treatment is a treatment administered to a subject
  who does not exhibit signs of a disease or exhibits only early signs of the disease for the purpose
  of decreasing the risk of developing pathology associated with the disease.
  A "therapeutic" treatment is a treatment administered to a subject who exhibits signs of
  pathology for the purpose of diminishing or eliminating those signs.
  A "therapeutically effective amount" of a compound is that amount of compound which is
  sufficient to provide a beneficial effect to the subject to which the compound is administered.
  By the term "vaccine," as used herein, is meant a composition, which when inoculated into a
  mammal has the effect of stimulating a cellular immune response comprising a T cell response or
  a humoral imm une response comprising a B cell response generally resulting in antibody
  production. The T cell response may be a cytotoxic T cell response directed against
  macromolecules produced by the bacteria. However, the induction of a T cell response
  comprising other types of T cells by the vaccine of the invention is also contemplated. A B cell
  response results in the production of antibody which binds to the antigen. The "vaccine" has the
  effect of stimulating an immune response in the subject, which serves to fully or partially protect
  the subject against a disease or its symptoms. The term vaccine encompasses prophylactic as
  well as therapeutic vaccines. A combination vaccine is one which combines two or more
  vaccines.
  Embodiments of the Invention
5 The present invention is directed to novel phosphorylated peptides that give rise to cancer
  antigens. In one embodiment, for example, the phosphopeptides are those described in the tables
  of the invention, including Table 1, associated with Examples 1 and 2. Example 3 and Appendix
  have different Tables with other peptides, and all 5 sequences cited below are for Table 1 of
  Examples I and 2, but the embodiments cited are also useful for the results and sequences of
  Example 3 and Appendix A. In one aspect, the peptides bind to MHC molecules. In another
  aspect, the peptides of the invention stimulate an immune response. In yet another aspect, the
  peptides of the invention are recognized by a cell or molecule which is a product of, or is
  stimulated as 10 a result of, an immune response,

                                            15
  Table L Cancer Antigen Phosphopeptides
                           Gi                                      SEQ
                           number                                  ID
  Protein
                    -    ....
                                     S
                                    |S    ence       HLA tv    e
         T- - --
  MUM-2                    20177848  RLDpSYVRSL       THLA-A.2.1 I
 Orphan nuclear receptor
 T2
                           136117    RQDpSTPCKVFL    HLA-A2        2
 Riken ORF 32,
 chromosome 10
 ---------               {886479     Vk      SRSSE      A-A2.1
 ORF 17, chromosome 2
(-                         40787650  RLpSSPLHFV      HLA-A2.       4
 AT1P-dependent
 metalloprotease
                           14248493  RLQpSTSERL      HLA-A2.       S
 Heterogeneous nuclear
 ribonucleoprotein:AO
                           13938287    MAApSPHAV     HLA-A2.1      6
 Jun-b/c/d                 49456463  KLApSPELERL     -LA-A-2,      7
 Ribosoma protein L4      22002063   ILKpSPEIQRA     HLA-A2,1      8
 Ub-carboxyl terminal
 hydrolase-10 (USP-10)
                          2501458    KLLpSPSNEKL     HLA-A2. 1     9
                                     KLLDFGSLpSNLQ
                                    iv
 Ribosomal protein S17    51476007                  H LA-A21I      10
 Krueppel-like zinc
 finger protein
                          903598     KLSSAQRpTL      HLA-A21       11
B-Catenin                 20384898   YLDpSGIHSCA    HLA-A2.      12
   CD25b:p63             [14602917   G LL   §pSPVRA H LA-A2-        3

                                                 16
      lnunreceptor
 subtrate-2
                                 55663292  RVApSPTSGV              .HLA-A2       14
 Breast cancer anti                                                          T
 estrogen resistance-3
 (BCAR3)
                                 55663999  IMDRpTPEKL              HLA-A21       15
Tum o r endothelial
  narke r-6, thyroid
specific PIT domain
   rotei                        23451123   VMIGpSPKKV            I HLA-A2-1      16
Hypothetical protein
FAM65A protein
                                32493393   RTLpSHISEA              HLA--A2.1     17
Nedd4 binding protein 2,
BCL3 binding protein
                               .31742492   K f pSFLDMQL            HLA-A2 1      18
Unknown (protein
gi22902182)
                               22902182_ _LMFpSVTS(LI)             HLA-A2.        9
    eckstr1 homology
domain-containing
protein family A
member 6
                               46397654    SLQPR.SHpSV            HLA-A21       20
                 "  ~ ~ - ------     -- -           _ _ --------               .   .......
Predicted: similar to
RAVER1
                               55648233   _RirpSPLSSA             HLA-A2.i      21
SRp46 splicing factor          14141201   SMpTRSPPRV              HLA-A21       22

                                               17
  Adenosine-
  monophosphate
  deaminase 2 (isoform L
                            5620606      RQIpSQDVKI.       HLA-A2A      23
 B lymphocyte signal
 transduction genec
      ----- _ -----         4261606      RQ. pSIELPSM      HLA-A2       24
 B lymphocyte signal
 transduction gene
 L__o|                      4261606      ROA SIELPSMAV     HLA-A2 1     25
 Carcinoembryonie -          - ----- -         -                           ---
 antigen 2b
                            3_702267     SLLTFWNL          HLA-A2.
              SLT..                                  -- -...    -- 1 - 26---
    YtTo4-                  20146522     KVQVpTSLSV        HLA-A2 1    27
Tsg24 protea                11967711     VLLpSPVPEL        HLA-A2 I    28
YM\l-ike 1, isoform 2
                            14043646     RLQpSTSE.         HLA-A21     29
FLJ22624 protein           55661789      TLApSPSVFKST      1LA-A21     30
                      - --
                  -----         ------4
                                   -----   -  --             --          ...
failure, IB
                           57284143     RTYpSGPMNKV        HA-A2,      3
Serine/threoineprotein
kinase Chkl1
        ---- --
      .....                753105       KLIDIV SSQKV      HLA-A'. 1    3
Desmuslin synemin          20 13 713'   RTF'pSPTYG        HLA-A2       3
FLJ20297 protein
KIAA\418 protein
                         i
                           40674045     ALYSPAQPSL        HLAA2A       34

                                                   is
 Adenosine
 monopho~sphate
 deaminase 2 (isoforr L)
                                            I sgkSDVKL__     _______
                              1562006o  le     F Q   DVK    HLA-A2.i 35
 BRD4 Hiuan
 bromodornain
 containing protein 4
           L_ __
               __20141192                     VpSPPALHNA    HLA-A2   36
 MUP2                          20177848   RLDpSYVRS         HLA-A2   37
 SPro apoptotic
*protein/BCL2adenovirus
 El B interacting protein
 31ike/MyO20 protein
                                          HPKRS" SL          HLA-B7  38
 KIAAI187/FLJ103 5 0/-1
 ypothetical protein
                    .---. .
                   ...              .     LPApSPRARL         HLA-B7  39
 FLJ 1029
proteinurmnamed protein
               -------       ._           H....
                                            -RpSPTPTL    __  HLA-17  40
signal-induced
proliferation-assoc.iated
 I like i/high-risk hunan
papilloma viruses E6
oncoproteins targeted
protein
                                          YPSSPRKAL          HLAIB7  41
Paternally expressed
gene 10 ORF1
                                         KPRpSPPRAL         HLA-B7   42
Novel protein/simiar to
c&42 GTPase activating
protein
                                            RPAKpSM         H LA-B7  43
Beta-adrenergic-receptor
kinase                                                      HLA-B7
                  -------- ________        RYPSPVVFL                 44

                                           19
No direct database hit~
                                    RSRpSPRPA(L/D)        HLA-B7  45
 Suppressor of cytokine
 sigaling protein
                                    APRpSPPPSRP           HLA-B7  46
triphosphate receptor,
type I
        ---------------             RPSGRREpSL            HLA-B7  47
Tumor necrosis factor
receptor superfamily.
member 8 (CD30
antigen)
                                    RPR RpSSTQL           HLA-B7  48
LM doma in only 6
                                    RPRpSPPPRAP           HLA-B7  49
General transcription
factor 2-1
                ..-.......          RIPR.-pSPGiSNSKV      HLA-B7  50
Ajuba (a novel LIM
protein required for
mitotic cormitnent)
                             ______  AQ.PG.RHJ            HLA-B7  51
novel retinal pigment
epithelial cell
protein/retinoic acid
induced 14
                                    SPRpSITSTP            HLA-B7  52
latent transforming
growth factor-beta
binding protein-2
          ..            .KAR.SPGRAL                       HLA.B7  53
No direct database hit
(X=L/I)
                                    SPRSIPGRS(L/D         HLA-B37 54
TGF3-induced factor
2/TGIF2                                                   HLA-B7
             ........... . .--      LPRGS- SPSVL     - -- ---     55

                                                 20
 DN A -dir e-ed RNA                      - -- -              -_____.....
 polymerase I 135 kDa
 polypeptide/POLRI B
 Protein
[_   ____FPHpSLLSVI                                          |    HLA-B7     56
 thyroid hormone
 receptor associated
 protein 3
                                 - ----- SPRER SPAL            HLA-B7
                                                                -..-
                                                               ..   - . - -..57--...
 RhoGAP protein/Nadrin                   APRRYpSSSL            HLA-B7        58
 Synemin'desmuslin                       RTFpSPTYGL            HLA-B7        59
 nurmb homolog
 (Drosophila)-like                                             HLA-B7
                                         SPFKRQLpSL                          60
 Chromatin assembly
 factor 1, subunit A
 (p150)
            ......... -----              SPRSPpSTTYL           HLA-B7        61
No direct database hit-                  RPApSP(K/Q)RA(K'
 (X=L/I) - MIX?                          Q)(L/I)
                    ____ __________                 ________   HLA-B7        62
 I oerleukin enhancer
 binding factor 3
  NIuclear factor of
 activated T-cells 90
kDa)
                              625250     i
                                         KLFDpTPLAL            HLA-A2.l      63
Predicted: similar to
RAVERI
                              55648233   RLLpSPLSSA            HLA-A2.1      64
MUM-2. (truncated)            20177848   RLDpSYVR              HLA-A2. 1     65
B lymphocyte signal
trarsduction gene
                              4261606      QApSIELPSM          HLA-A2.1      66

                                                    21
   KIAA1328 protein
   hypothetical protein
                               20521886      KLMpSPKADVKI             HLA-A2 1       67
   SRp46 splicing factor        14141201     SMpTR.SPPRV              HLA-A2 1       68
   TFIID Transcription
   initiationfactor r             5 03 2 __   LF S K E L R C          FI LA -A 2 1    69
   In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a purified polypeptide is provided
   comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 70-171, or an amino acid sequence that
  differs from any of those sequences by one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In
  another embodiment the purified polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence that differs from
   SEQ ID NO: 70-171 by less than 5 conservative amino acid substitutions, and in a further
  embodiment, by 2 or less conservative amino acid substitutions. In accordance with one
  embodiment of the present invention, a purified polypeptide is provided comprising the amino
  acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 70-171, or a bioactive fragment of SEQ ID NO: 70-171, or an
  amino acid sequence that differs from SEQ ID NO: 70-171 by one to ten conservative amino
  acid substitutions. In one aspect, a peptide of the invention is an unphosphorylated peptide
  having a sequence identical with, or highly homologous with, one of the peptides having SEQ ID
  NOs:70-171. The present invention is also directed to isolated nucleic acids, which comprise
5 nucleic acid sequences encoding the non-phosphorylated homologs of the phosphopeptides of
  the invention. The polypeptides of the present invention may include additional amino acid
  sequences to assist in the stabilization and/or purification of recombinantly produced
  polypeptides. These additional sequences may include intra- or inter-cellular targeting peptides
  or various peptide tags known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment, the purified
0 polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
  NO: 70-171 and a peptide tag, wherein the peptide tag is linked to the phosphorylated peptide
  sequence. Suitable expression vectors for expressing such fusion proteins and suitable peptide
  tags are known to those skilled in the art and commercially available. In one embodiment the tag
  comprises a His tag. In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a purified

   polypeptide that comprises an amino acid fragment of a phosphorylated polypeptide.
    More particularly the phosphorylated polypeptide fragment consists of natural or synthetic
   portions of a full-length polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 70-171
 ) that are capable of specific binding to their natural ligand. Alternatively, the fragment may
   comprise an antigenic fragment, including fragments of 10-30, 12-19, 8-12 or 9 amino acids in
   length, of a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 70-171.
   In accordance with one embodiment, a composition is provided for inducing an immune
   response against a cancer-associated phosphopeptide as described herein. In one embodiment,
   the composition consists of a peptide comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting
   of SEQ ID NO: 70-171, and antigenic fragments of those sequences. The compositions can be
   combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant and administered to a
   mammalian species to induce an immune response. The immune response can take the form of
   an antibody response, a T helper response, or a CTL response. The immune response may be
   generated in vitro or in vivo.
   In accordance with one embodiment, the peptides can be used to immunize a non-human
   recipient such as a mouse, rat, or goat for the production of antibodies that specifically recognize
   the peptides. Antibodies to peptides may be generated using methods that are well known in the
   art. In one embodiment, recombinantly produced peptides, or fragments thereof are used to
   generate antibodies against the phosphorylated peptides.
   In accordance with one embodiment, an antibody is provided which binds to a polypeptide of the
5  invention. In one aspect, the polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:
   70-171. In one embodiment the antibody is a monoclonal antibody. The antibodies may be used
   with or without modification, and may be labeled by joining them, either covalently or non
   covalently, with a reporter molecule. In addition, the antibodies can be formulated with standard
   carriers and optionally labeled to prepare therapeutic or diagnostic compositions.
0
   Antibodies to peptides may be generated using methods that are well known in the art. For the
   production of antibodies, various host animals, including rabbits, mice, rats, goats and other
   mammals, can be immunized by injection with a peptide. They may be conjugated to carrier

  proteins such as KLH or tetanus toxoid, Various adjuvants may be used to increase the
  immunological response, depending on the host species, and including but not limited to
  Freund's (complete and incomplete), mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide, surface active
  substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, peptides, oil emulsions, keyhole
  limpet hemocyanins, dinitrophenol, and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG (bacille
  Calmette-Guerin) and corynebacterium parvum. Methods of immunization to achieve a
  polyclonal antibody response are well known in the art, as are the methods for generating
  hybridomas and monoclonal antibodies.
  For preparation of monoclonal antibodies, any technique, which provides for the production of
 antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture may be used. For example, the hybridoma
 technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein (1975, Nature 256:495-497), as well as
 the trioma technique, the human B-cell hybridoma technique (Kozbor et al, 1983, Immunology
 Today 4:72), and the EBV-hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies (Cole
 et at., 1985, in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy, Alan R. Liss, Inc., pp. 77-96). In an
 additional embodiment of the invention, monoclonal antibodies can be produced in germ-free
 animals utilizing recent technology (PCT/US90/02545). According to the invention, human
 antibodies may be used and can be obtained by using human hybridomas (Cote et al., 1983, Proc.
 Nati. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80:2026-2030) or by transforming human B cells with EBV virus in vitro
 (Cole et al., 1985, in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapv, Alan R. Liss, pp, 77-96). In
 fact, according to the invention, techniques developed for the production of "chimeric
antibodies" (Morrison et at., 1984, Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci U.S.A. 81:6851-6855; Neuberger
                                                                                              et al.,
 1984, Nature 312:604-608; Takeda et at., 1985, Nature 314:452-454) by splicing the genes from
a mouse antibody molecule specific for epitopes of TAG polypeptides together with genes from
a human antibody molecule of appropriate biological activity can be used; such antibodies are
within the scope of this invention.
Antibodies generated in accordance with the present invention may include, but are not limited
to, polyclonal, monoclonal, chimeric (i.e., "humanized" antibodies), single chain (recombinant),
Fab fragments, and fragments produced by a Fab expression library. These antibodies can be
used as diagnostic agents for the diagnosis of conditions or diseases characterized by expression
or overexpression of antigen peptides (such as cancer), or in assays to monitor a patients

                                                    24
  responsiveness to an anti-cancer therapy. In one embodiment antibodies specific for one or more
  of the antigen peptides are used as diagnostics for the detection of the antigen peptides in cancer
  cells.
  The antibodies or antibody fragments of the present invention can be combined with a carrier or
  diluent to form a composition. In one embodiment, the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable
  carrier. Such carriers and diluents include sterile liquids such as water and oils, with or without
  the addition of a surfactant and other pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable carrier,
  including adjuvants, excipients or stabilizers. Illustrative oils are those of petroleum, animal,
  vegetable, or synthetic origin, for example, peanut oil, soybean oil, or mineral oil. In general,
  water, saline, aqueous dextrose, and related sugar solution, and glycols such as, propylene glycol
  or polyethylene glycol, are preferred liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions.
  In accordance with one embodiment, the detection of antigen peptides is used as a diagnostic
  mark for detecting cancer. In another embodiment the antigen peptides can be used to immunize
  an individual to induce an immune response. The induced response may include T helper cells
  or CTL specific for the antigen peptides. The induced immune response may be useful in
  preventing the development of cancer in an individual without cancer, and it may be useful in
  eliminating or preventing the further spread of the disease in an individual with cancer. In one
  embodiment the antigen peptides may be added to antigen presenting cells. The antigen
  presenting cells will now present antigen peptides, which can be used to stimulate an in vitro T
  helper cell or CTL response. The T helper cells or CTL can then be used as diagnostics to detect
  the presence of tumor cells. The T helper cells or CTL can also be infused into a cancer patient
  as a treatment for cancer.
5
  Accordingly, one embodiment of the invention is directed to the use of antigen peptides as
  diagnostic markers for neoplastic disease such as cancer. The method comprises the steps of
  screening for elevated levels or inappropriate expression of antigen peptides, including the
  expression of antigen peptides in somatic tissues. The term "inappropriate expression" includes
0 any non-typical expression that is deleterious to the cell or host organism, including for example,
  expression in a cell type that normally does not express the peptide, or expression of a modified
  form of the peptide that impacts cell function. Such screens could be conducted using antibodies

                                                     25
   specific for the antigen. Alternatively, antibodies directed against antigen peptides can be used
   in assays to monitor patients being treated with anticancer therapies to monitor the effectiveness
  of the therapy.
  The antigen peptides are known to be expressed in melanoma, ovarian, breast, colorectal, or
  squamous carcinoma of the lung, and thus may be used as immunogens to prevent, eliminate, or
  delay the progression of, inter alia, these types of cancer.
  In one aspect, the cancer is, inter alia, sarcoma, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic carcinomas,
  squamous tumors of the head and neck.
  These same antigen peptides may also be expressed in untested forms of cancer and thus may be
  useful in their ability to prevent, eliminate, or delay the progression of additional cancers.
  Antibodies generated with specificity for the antigen peptides are used in accordance with one
  embodiment to detect the corresponding peptides in biological samples. The biological sample
  could come from an individual whom is suspected of having cancer and thus detection would
  serve to diagnose the cancer. Alternatively, the biological sample may come from an individual
  known to have cancer, and detection of the antigen peptides would serve as an indicator of
  disease prognosis or treatment efficacy. Appropriate immunoassays are well known in the art and
  include, but are not limited to, immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, radioimmunoassay,
  western blotting, and ELI SA. Biological samples suitable for such testing would include, but are
  not limited to, cells, tissue biopsy specimens, whole blood, plasma, serum, sputum, cerebrospinal
  fluid, pleural fluid, and urine,
5
  Antigens recognized by T cells, whether helper T lymphocytes or CTL, are not recognized as
  intact proteins, but rather as small peptides that associate with class I or class II MHC proteins on
  the surface of cells. During the course of a naturally occurring immune response antigens that
  are recognized in association with class II MHC molecules on antigen presenting cells are
0 acquired from outside the cell, internalized, and processed into small peptides that associate with
  the class II MHC molecules. Conversely, the antigens that give rise to proteins that are
  recognized in association with class I MHC molecules are generally proteins made within the
  cells, and these antigens are processed and associate with class I MHC molecules. It is now well

                                                   26
known that the peptides that associate with a given class I or class II MHC molecule are
characterized as having a common binding motif, and the binding motifs for a large number of
different class I and II MHC molecules have been determined. It is also well known that
synthetic peptides can be made which correspond to the sequence of a given antigen and which
contain the binding motif for a given class I or II MHC molecule. These peptides can then be
added to appropriate antigen presenting cells, either in vitro or in vivo, and be used to stimulate a
T helper cell or CTL response. The binding motifs, methods for synthesizing the peptides, and
methods for stimulating a T helper cell or CTL response are all well known and readily
available.
The antigens of this invention may take the form of antigen peptides added to autologous
dendritic cells and used to stimulate a T helper cell or CTL response in vitro. The in vitro
generated T helper cells or CTL can then be infused into a patient with cancer (Yee et aL, 2002),
and specifically a patient with a form of cancer that expresses one or more of antigen peptides.
The antigen peptides may also be used to vaccinate an individual. The antigen peptides may be
injected alone, but most often they would be administered in combination with an adjuvant. The
proteins may also be added to dendritic cells in vitro, with the dendritic cells being subsequently
transferred into an individual with cancer with the intent of stimulating an immune response.
Peptide analogs can readily be synthesized that retain their ability to stimulate a particular
immune response, but which also gain several beneficial features which include, but are not
limited to the following: (i) Substitutions may be made in the peptide at residues known to
interact with the MHC molecule. Such substitutions can have the effect of increasing the binding
affinity of the peptide for the MHC molecule and can also increase the lifespan of the peptide
MHC complex, the consequence of which is that the analog is a more potent stimulator of an
immune response than is the original peptide. (ii) The substitutions may be at positions in the
peptide that interact with the receptor on the T helper cells or CTL, and have the effect of
increasing the affinity of interaction such that a stronger immune response is generated. (iii)
Additionally, the substitutions may have no effect on the immunogenicity of the peptide per se,
but rather than may prolong its biological half-life or prevent it from undergoing spontaneous
substitutions or alternations which might otherwise negatively impact on the immunogenicity of
the peptide.

The antigen peptides of this invention can also be used as a vaccine for cancer, and more
specifically for melanoma, ovarian, breast, colorectal, or lung squamous cancer. The antigens
may take the form of genes, proteins, or peptides. The vaccine may include only the antigens of
this invention or they may include other cancer antigens that have been identified.
Pharmaceutical carriers, diluents and excipients are generally added that are compatible with the
active ingredients and acceptable for pharmaceutical use. Examples of such carriers include, but
are not limited to, water, saline solutions, dextrose, or glycerol. Combinations of carriers may
also be used. The vaccine compositions may further incorporate additional substances to
stabilize pH, or to function as adjuvants, wetting agents, or emulsifying agents, which can serve
to improve the effectiveness of the vaccine.
The composition may be administered parenterally or orally, and, if parenterally, either
systemically or topically. Parenteral routes include subcutaneous, intravenous, intradermal,
intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intranasal, transdermal, or buccal routes. One or more such routes
may be employed. Parenteral administration can be, for example, by bolus injection or by
gradual perfusion over time. Alternatively, or concurrently, administration may be by the oral
route.
It is understood that the suitable dosage of an immunogen of the present invention will depend
upon the age, sex, health, and weight of the recipient, the kind of concurrent treatment, if any,
the frequency of treatment, and the nature of the effect desired, however, the most preferred
dosage can be tailored to the individual subject, as determined by the researcher or clinician.
The total dose required for any given treatment will commonly be determined with respect to a
standard reference dose based on the experience of the researcher or clinician, such dose being
administered either in a single treatment or in a series of doses, the success of which will depend
on the production of a desired immunological result (i.e., successful production of a T helper cell
and/or CTL-mediated response to the antigen, which response gives rise to the prevention and/or
treatment desired). Thus, the overall administration schedule must be considered in determining
the success of a course of treatment and not whether a single dose, given in isolation, would or
would not produce the desired immunologically therapeutic result or effect. Thus, the
therapeutically effective amount (i.e., that producing the desired T helper cell and/or CTL-

                                                     28
  mediated response) will depend on the antigenic composition of the vaccine used, the nature of
  the disease condition, the severity of the disease condition, the extent of any need to prevent such
  a condition where it has not already been detected, the manner of administration dictated by the
  situation requiring such administration, the weight and state of health of the individual receiving
  such administration, and the sound judgment of the clinician or researcher. Needless to say, the
  efficacy of administering additional doses, and of increasing or decreasing the interval, may be
  re-evaluated on a continuing basis, in view of the recipient's immunocompetence (for example,
  the level of T helper cell and/or CTL activity with respect to tumor-associated or tumor-specific
  antigens).
  The concentration of the T helper or CTL stimulatory peptides of the invention in pharmaceutical
   formulations are subject to wide variation, including anywhere from less than 0.01% by weight
   to as much as 50% or more. Factors such as volume and viscosity of the resulting composition
   should also be considered. The solvents, or diluents, used for such compositions include water,
   possibly PBS (phosphate buffered saline), or saline itself, or other possible carriers or excipients.
   The immunogens of the present invention may also be contained in artificially created structures
   such as liposomes, which structures may or may not contain additional molecules, such as
   proteins or polysaccharides, inserted in the outer membranes of said structures and having the
   effect of targeting the liposomes to particular areas of the body, or to particular cells within a
   given organ or tissue. Such targeting molecules may commonly be some type of
   immunoglobulin. Antibodies may work particularly well for targeting the liposomes to tumor
   cells.
   The present invention is also directed to a vaccine in which a peptide or polypeptide or active
5  fragment of the present invention is delivered or administered in the form of a polynucleotide
   coding the peptide or polypeptide or active fragment, whereby the peptide or polypeptide or
   active fragment is produced in vivo. The polynucleotide may be included in a suitable expression
   vector and combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
0   The vaccine compositions may be used prophylactically for the purposes of preventing cancer in
    an individual that does not currently have cancer, or they may be used to treat an individual that
    already has cancer. Prevention relates to a process of prophylaxis in which the individual is

                                                  29
immunized prior to the induction or onset of cancer. For example, individuals with a history of
severe sunburn and at risk for developing melanoma, might be immunized prior to the onset of
the disease, Alternatively, individuals that already have cancer can be immunized with the
antigens of the present invention so as to stimulate an immune response that would be reactive
against the cancer. A clinically relevant immune response would be one in which the cancer
partially or completely regresses and is eliminated from the patient, and it would also include
those responses in which the progression of the cancer is blocked without being eliminated.
In one embodiment, the present invention provides methods of screening for agents, small
molecules, or proteins that interact with polypeptides comprising a sequence selected from the
group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1 through 69 or bioactive fragments thereof. The invention
encompasses both in vivo and in vitro assays to screen small molecules, compounds,
recombinant proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, antibodies, etc., which bind to or modulate the
activity of antigen peptides and are thus useful as therapeutic or diagnostic markers for cancer.
As used herein, modulating the activity of an antigen peptide includes interfering or altering the
antigen peptide ligand binding properties.
The invention is now described with reference to the following examples. These examples are
provided for the purpose of illustration only and the invention should in no way be construed as
being limited to these examples, but rather should be construed to encompass any and all
variations which become evident as a result of the teachings provided herein.
Example I
Phosphorylated peptides were extracted from melanoma cell lines that express either or both of
HLA-B7 and IiLA-A*0201, identified by mass spectrometry to be differentially displayed on
melanoma versus a control B cell line, and then sequenced. The peptides were identified through
the following procedure, Two melanoma cell lines and one B lymphoblastoid cell line were
extracted with detergent containing buffer, and HLA-A*0201 class I MHC molecules were
purified by immunoaffinity chromatography. Peptides were separated from the MHC molecules
by extraction in acid and filtration through a 5000 dalton cut-off filter. Phosphopeptides were
identified through analysis by microcapillary reversed phase high performance liquid

                                                    30
  chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Sequences were determined from an analysis of
  collision activated dissociation spectra. Source proteins were determined from a search of
  protein and DNA databases. SEQ ID NOs: I through 69 were identified (see Table 1). One of
  ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that such techniques can be modified and that other
  techniques are known to aid in identifying peptides of the invention.
  These peptides represent potential targets of an immune response, either cytotoxic T lymphocyte
  or antibody, that could be used for either therapeutic or diagnostic purposes. While the peptides
  have been identified on melanoma cells, they may also be expressed on other kinds of cancer
  cells and the invention covers their use for cancers other than melanoma. The binding of these
  peptides to class I MHC molecules is necessary for their recognition by cytotoxic T
  lymphocytes, while recognition by antibody could occur in either a class I MHC associated or
  free form. The invention comprises these peptides, together with structural modifications that
  retain or enhance the ability: 1) to bind to MHC molecules or; 2 to stimulate an immune response
  or; 3 to be recognized by a product of an immune response.
   The binding of the peptides to class I MHC molecules can be determined by 2-3 anchor residues
   within the sequence, and these peptides are generally 8-11 residues in length. For example,
   peptides that bind to HLA-B7 generally contain a Pro at the second position, a hydrophobic
   aliphatic residue at the carboxyl terminus, and are 9 residues long. However, some peptides have
   been identified that do not contain one of these anchor residues, and peptides up to 14 residues in
   length have also been identified, It has also been shown that other residues in a sequence may
   augment or diminish binding, despite the presence or absence of appropriate anchor residues.
5  The sequences displayed on a cell are derived from proteolysis of proteins made inside the cell
   and transported into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. The specificities of the proteases
   and the transporter are poorly understood, and the sequences of all proteins made by human
   cells, based on data from the Human Genome Project, are very incomplete. In addition, proteins
   may undergo modifications such as phosphorylation. However, relatively few of these sites have
0  been identified. Thus, there is a large universe of potential peptides displayed by any given
   MHC molecule based on the sequences of all proteins made by the cell and the distribution of
    appropriate anchor motifs within those sequences. However, the exact peptides displayed by a

                                                   31
  cell are not readily predictable. The direct identification of such peptides by mass spectrometry
  provides information that cannot be otherwise obtained at present without undue effort.
  Different MHC molecules may have similar anchor preferences, leading to the possibility that a
  peptide associated with, for example, HLA-A*0201, may also be displayed by HLA-A3. The
  existence of such "supertypes" means that the peptides identified above in association with one
  MHC molecule may be presented by others, broadening their utility as antigens.
  Example 2
  CTL specific for two of the antigen peptides were generated by long term culture with the
  peptides. Two CTL lines specific for the antigen peptide GLLGpSPVRA, lines 6850 and 6960,
  SEQ ID NO: 13, and two CTL lines specific for the antigen peptide RVApSPTSGV, SEQ ID
  NO: 14, lines 5183 and 63 were used to detect these two antigen peptides on cancer cells. The
  phosphopeptide-specific CTL (50,000 CTL/well) were incubated 24 hours with the following
  cancer cell lines or EBV-transformed B lymphoblastoid cell lines (BLCL) (25,000 cells/well):
  COV413.AADA4 ovarian carcinoma, DM331 AADA4 and SLM2.AAD. Al melanomas,
  MCFy.AAD.A2 and MDAMB23 1AAD breast carcinomas, and JY EBVBLCL. Supernatants
  were harvested 24 hours later and evaluated for the presence of marine IFNy (produced by
  murine CTL lines) by ELISA (eBioscience Ready-Set-go murine IFNy ELISA kit). As a positive
  control, cancer cells were pulsed with the specific antigen peptide (I pM) to show that they are
  capable of presenting exogenously added peptide. In Figure IA, two phosphopeptide-specific
  CTL cell lines, 6850 and 6960, specific for the phosphopeptide GLLGpSPVRA, recognize the
  phosphopeptide on all the cancer cell lines, but not the control cell line. In Figure 1B, two
  phosphopeptide-specific CTL cell lines, 5183 and 63, specific for the phosphopeptide
5 RVApSPTSGV, recognize the phosphopeptide on all the cancer cell lines, but not the control cell
  line.
  Example 3
  Over-expression of select phospho-proteins is a hallmark of malignant transformation.
0
  Due to the low expression levels of phosphopeptides by the MHC class I pathway, identification
  of immunologically relevant phospho-peptides is difficult.

                                                32
Secreted MHC molecule technology allows for an increase in the amounts of MHC class I
peptides available for analysis.
Identification of MHC class I phosphopeptides that are unique to tumor cells provides an avenue
to the production of peptide-based cancer vaccines and biomarkers
Materials, Methods, and Results
Table 2 as set forth in Figure 2 presents phosphopeptides of the present invention on breast
cancer by the Class I MHC Molecule, in particular, on the HILA B*0702 allele. Table 3, as set
forth below, summarizes "Source proteins for peptides identified from analyses of samples from
breast cancer and immortalized cell lines and their expression in non-tumorigenic control cell
line 184B5 and the breast cancer cell lines BT20 and MCF-7".
Figure 3 graphically demonstrates
        The MHC class I pathway
    a) Protein is marked for degradation
    b) The proteasome digests the peptides into smaller fragments
    c) Peptides are transported into the ER via the transporter associated protein (TAP)
    d) The MHC molecule with peptide loaded is transported to the surface
Figure 4 schematically illustrates "Sample analysis overview. Cells are grown in culture and the
cell supernatant is collected. MHC molecules are immunoaffinity purified and peptides are
eluted under acidic conditions. Peptides are esterified, enriched for phospho-peptides through
IMAC and/or TiO2 and analyzed via C18 micro electrospray LC/MS with high resolution full
MS and low resolution MS/MS".
Figure 5 describes the B*0702 motif showing amino acid anchors.
Figure 6 shows the total number of peptides in IMAC and TiO2 experiments and schematically
depicts the overlap between the peptides identified in an IMAC analysis of 18485 and a TiO2
analysis. The IMAC analysis was performed twice, once with ETD fragmentation (d.d. top 6)
and once with CAD (d.d. top 10) fragmentation. The TiO2 analysis was performed in a single

                                                  33
run with toggled ETD/CAD fragmentation. We investigated each MS analysis for the presence
of all identified sequences using the calculated accurate mass value.
The MHC class I pathway (Figure 3) is classically responsible for presenting endogenous
peptides to the immune system. Each MHC molecule has a binding pocket which can only
accept peptides with narrowly defined motifs. The MHC molecule with peptide loaded in the
binding groove is transported to the surface where the MHC molecule remains anchored to the
membrane Phospho-peptides can be processed and displayed by the MHC class I pathway.
 Secreted MHC molecules
-A cDNA clone of a specific MHC molecule is altered to remove the regions that code for the
transmembrane and cytoplasmic portions of the protein
-Cloned into a plasmid expression vector
-Cell produce endogenous MHC molecules as well as the secreted MHC molecules (sHLA)
-sHLA are released into the cell culture medium as they lack the portion of the protein
responsible for anchoring them to the membrane
-The inventors have demonstrated that sHLA molecules successfully present phospho-peptides
and that they display a similar repertoire of phospho-peptides as endogenous ILA molecules.
Phosphopeptide Analyses
*        Breast cancer eel I lines (BT20, MCF7) and an immortalized non-malignant mammary
tissue cell line (184B5) were transfected with the B*0702 sHLA cDNAI
+        Figure 5 shows the motif for peptides which are presented by B*0702 MHC molecules
e        Samples were analyzed with both ETD fragmentation and CAD fragmentation on either
an Orbitrap or FT-ICR instrument, which were in-house custom modified for front end electron
transfer dissociation
-        Species of interest were identified by a combination of algorithm searching (OMSSA),
dO/d3 methyl ester pair detection and CAD neutral loss detection
-b       Peptide sequences were determined by manual confirmation of search data and de novo
sequencing utilizing both CAD and ETD data where necessary
-1       Source proteins were determined by BLAST2 search, and a single protein identification
was determined from UniProt 3

                                                   34
  Due to issues with non-specific binding having a negative effect on the ability to identify
  peptides in IMAC experiments, TiO2 was considered as an alternative. Figure 4 shows the total
  number of peptides in IMAC and TiO2 experiments. The level of non-specific binding for non
  phospho peptides was reduced substantially in the TiO2 experiment, however recovery of the
  angiotensin I1phosphate (DRVyIHPF) standard peptide was much lower in the TiO2
  experiment.
  Conclusions- Example 3
  -104 phospho-peptides have been identified, deriving from 84 different source proteins
  -22 phospho-peptides were only detected in samples deriving from breast cancer cell lines
  -2 peptides were identified in both cancer cell lines but not in the control cell line
  -Peptides from source proteins known to be involved in tumors have been identified
  -In a complementary TiO2/IMAC experiment, 34 peptides were common to both analyses, 14
  peptides were unique to the IMAC experiment and 35 peptides were unique to the TiO2
  experiment
  Based on the disclosure provided herein, the present invention encompasses compositions and
  methods useful for submitting/testing specific peptides of immunological interest for binding and
  T-cell recognition assays. The present invention further encompasses compositions and methods
  to apply the sHLA technology to cell lines with known phospho-peptide expression patterns and
5 the present invention has application to cells with non-ideal HLA alleles and/or cells with poor
  growth.
  Bibliography
   1. Oriana E. Hawkins, Rodney S. VanGundy, Annette M. Eckerd, Wilfried
0 Bardet, Rico Buchli, Jon A. Weidanz, and William H. Hildebrand, Journal of Proteome 10
  Research, 2008, 7, 1445-1457.
  2. Altschul SF; Gish W; Miller W; Myers EW; Lipman DJ, J ournal of Mol ecular Biology,

                                             35
1990, 215, 403-410.
3. The UniProt Consortium, The Universal Protein Resource (UniProt)in 2010,
Nucleic Acids Research, 2010, D142-D148 15.
Table 3
Uniprot                            Uniprot protein
protein            184  BT   MC    identification        184   BT2
identification     B5   20   F7                          B5    0       MCF7
A-kinase               0Unique             peptide,
anchor protein                     unidenttiedsource
  3     orb. n ..-                   6      ----------
                                   Uniquepeptide,
Ankycorbin                         unientifiedsource
                                   7
Arginine
     i     id                      Unque peptide,
                                   unidentified source
repeats protein
Ataxmn2                            Neuron navigator i
                                   Nuclear factor
Ataxin-2 - with                    erythroid 2-related
point mutation                     factor I
Ataxin-2-like    t                 Nuclear receptor
protein                            coactivator 1
AT-rich
 interactive                                                                i"10
domain
 containing                        Numb-li
 protein I A
 adrenergic                         ocizer of      R-A2
 receptor kinase

                                   36
                        Phosphatidylinosito<
Butyrate.     .           45-bisphosphate
response factor         5phosphatase A
Cdc42
interacting             Plakophilin-3
protein 4
Centrosomai
     kaa
protein of 55           Plakophlin-3
Chondroiti      Waa
sulfate
synthase 2              Plakophilin-3
Chiromatin              Pleckstrin
assembly                homology domain
factor I subunit        containing family G
A
Coiled cofl
domain-                 Pleckstin
containing              homologylike
protein 6               domain family B
                 Hln4 1 Proline,-ich protein
 Cullin-4A
 Death-                  proteasome non
 associated              ATPase regulatory
 protein kinase          subunit 4
 DEWN
 domain
 containng               Protein AF-17
 protein 4C
 DNA
 replication             Protein ajuba
 factor Cdtlg
 DNA binding
 protein
 inhibitor ID-2          Protein TANC2

                                              Putative
RNA-iphosphoserine
RNAsphosphatase-like
           polymease
              Iprotein
subunit RPA2
Dynamin-l-                                    Rab I family
like protein                                  interacting protein
E3 ubiquitin                                  Ras-associated and
protein ligase                                pleckstrin
                ------------ -              -
                                              homolog
                               - - -------------
NEDD4-like                                    domains-containing      i
                                              protein I
E3 ubiquitin-                                 Ras-like protein
protein ligase                                family member
NEDD4-like                                     11A
E3 ubiquitin-                                 Receptor
protein ligase                                expression
UBR5                                          enhancing protein 4
Eukaryotic                                    Receptor
translation                                   interacting
initiation factor                             serine/threonine
4B                             j              protein kinase 4
General                                       RelA-associated
transcription                                  inhibitor
factor 11-I
Helicase                                       RetrotranspoCson
SK-2W                                          derived protein
                                               PEG 10             -OE
 Histonelysine                                 Retrotransposon
N-                                             derived protein
methyltransfera                                PEG 10
 Homeobox                                      Rho GTPase
protein TGIF2                                  activating protein
 Hypoxia-                                      Rho GTPase
 inducible                                     activating protein
 Krueppel-like                                 RNA
 factor 10                                     pseudouridylate
                                               snthase domain
 Latent-                                       Serine/arginine
 transforming                                  repetitive matrix

                                           38
growth factor                   protein 2
beta-binding
protein 2
Leucine zipper                  Serine/threonine
protein I                       protein kinase SIKI
Lipolysis
stimulated                      Serine/threonine
 ipoprotein                     protein kinase
receptor                        tousled-like
                   IMM          Signal-induced
                                proliferation
                                associated I-like
containig
protein 1         L                                  Nprotein
protein 1Ik                           ncgn
MICAL-like                      Splicing factor
protein 2                       arginine/serine-rich
                                7
                                 Sterol regulatory
MICAL-like                      element-binding
protein 2                       protein
Microtubule
actin cross                      Targetng protein
 linking factor I                 or Xkip2
Miogen
 activated
 protein kinase                  T n n
 knase kinase
.......                t L..........
                  ............ ..-_--------          L...
                                                   ....

   Mioen
activated
protem inas               Thyroid hormone
k nase kinase             receptor-associated
                          protein 3
specific                  Transcription factor
enhancer factor           HIVEP2
2D
Myocyte
specific                  Transformer
enhancer factor           protein homolog
2D                        beta
Myocyte-         .        Transient receptor
specific                  potential cation
enhancer factor           channel
2D
Myosm
regulatory light          TSC22 domain
chain 12A         .family        protein 4
ppide
peptide,                  Ubiquitin carboxyl
unidentfied               terminal hydrolase
source                    43
 Unique
peptide,                  Uncharacterized     .
unidentified              protein ClorflO6
source 2
Unique
peptide,
undentt(#ed               protein C6orf64
source 3
I"nieque
peptide,                  Uncharacterized
unidentped                protein (Xorf66
source 4

                                                    40
  Unique                .
  peptide,                               Uncharacterized
  unident fied                           protein KIAA08 19
  proteprotein
                    hnUncharacterized             KIAA1
  The disclosures of each and every patent, patent application, and publication cited herein are
  hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. One of skill in the art will appreciate
  that the superiority of the compositions and methods of the invention relative to the compositions
  and methods of the prior art are unrelated to the physiological accuracy of the theory explaining
  the superior results.
  Headings are included herein for reference and to aid in locating certain sections. These headings
  are not intended to limit the scope of the concepts described 10 therein under, and these concepts
  may have applicability in other sections throughout the entire specification.
  The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled
  in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will
ibe readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be
  applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. The
  appended claims are intended to be construed to include all such embodiments and equivalent
  variations. Accordingly, the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments
  shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel
  features disclosed herein.

                                                  41
                                               CLAIMS
 1.      An isolated phosphopeptide of 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,15, 16,17,18,19 or 20 amino acids
comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 70-171 or a sequence
at least 90% identical thereto.
2.       The isolated phosphopeptide of claim 1, wherein said sequence is selected from group
consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 84, 87, 96, 102,118, 121, 125,126,128, 132, 138, 145, 155, 164,
and 165 or a sequence at least 90% identical thereto.
3.       The isolated phosphopeptide of claim 1, wherein said sequence is selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 118, 121, 132, 145, 164, and 165 or a sequence at least 90% identical
thereto.
4.       A composition comprising a number of the phosphopeptides of claim I and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the number is selected from the group consisting of
1,2 3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 1112, 13, 14, 15, 16,17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29
and 30.
5.       The composition of claim 4, wherein said composition has the ability to stimulate a T cell
mediated immune response to at least one of said phosphopeptides.
6.       The composition of claim 4, comprising a peptide capable of binding to the HLA-B*0702
allele on the MHC class I molecule.
7.       The composition of claim 4, wherein the composition is capable of increasing the 5-year
survival rate of breast cancer patients treated with the composition relative to average 5-year
survival rates that could have been expected without treatment with the composition.
8.       The composition of claim 1, wherein said composition comprises one or more
phosphopeptides comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 84,

                                                   42
87, 96, 102, 118, 121, 125, 126, 128, 132, 138, 145, 155, 164, and 165 and a pharmaceutical
carrier.
9.       An in vitro population of dendritic cells comprising the compositions of any one of
claims 4-8.
 10.     An antibody or antibody-like molecule that specifically binds to a phophopeptide
comprising the sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 70-171.
 11.     The antibody or antibody-like molecule of claim 10, wherein the phosphopeptide
comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 84, 87, 96, 102, 118,
121, 125,126,128, 132, 138, 145,155, 164, and 165.
12.      The antibody or antibody-like molecule of claim 10, wherein the antibody or antibody
like molecule is polyclonal, monoclonal, chimeric antibody, Fab fragments, or fragments
produced by a Fab expression library or a T-cell receptor.
13,      A composition comprising the antibody or antibody-like molecule of claim 10, further
comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
14.      The composition of claim 13, further comprising an adjuvant.
15,      A method of inducing an immunogenic response comprising administering to a patient
in need thereof a dose of the composition of any of claims 4-8.
16.      A method of treating or preventing cancer comprising administering to a patient in need
thereof a dose of the composition of any of claim 4-8.
17.      A method of treating or preventing breast cancer comprising administering to a patient in
need thereof a dose of a composition comprising an isolated phosphopeptide comprising a
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:70-171 in combination with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

                                                 .4-3
18.     The method of claim 17, wherein the isolated phosphopeptide comprises a sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 84, 87, 96, 102, 118, 121, 125, 126, 128, 132,
138, 145,155, 164, and 165.
19.     A method of treating or preventing breast cancer comprising administering to a patient in
need thereof the population of the dendritic cells of claim 9 in combination with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
20.     A population of T-cells specific for a phosphopetide of claim 1.
                                           Agenus Inc.
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                                             <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+2702><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2715><U+270C><U+2716><U+2717><U+270C>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2718><U+2702><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2719><U+2721><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+271A><U+270F><U+270D><U+271B><U+2711><U+270F><U+2716><U+270C> <U+2716><U+271A> <U+271C><U+2722><U+270D> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271B><U+2720><U+2720> <U+270F> <U+2723><U+2722><U+2716><U+2720><U+2723><U+2722><U+2716><U+2724><U+2723><U+2721><U+2723><U+2711><U+270F><U+2719><U+2721> <U+271B><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2721><U+270C><U+2720> <U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2725><U+2721><U+271B><U+2720><U+2711> <U+270D><U+271B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721><U+2725> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E><U+270F><U+2727><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2722><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722><U+270C><U+2716><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+2605> <U+271B><U+270C><U+2719> <U+270D><U+2716><U+271C><U+2723><U+270E><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+270C><U+2711><U+271B><U+2725><U+2605>
                    <U+2721><U+270C><U+2725><U+270F><U+270D><U+2722><U+271C><U+2721><U+270C><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2725><U+271B><U+2711><U+2721><U+2712><U+270F><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2729><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2702><U+2702>    <U+2724><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2729><U+2724><U+2717><U+2716><U+271F>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2701><U+271F><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271F><U+272A><U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+272B><U+2704> <U+271D>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2706><U+271F><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2702><U+271F><U+2718><U+2724><U+2702><U+271D><U+2724><U+2702><U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2706><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271F><U+272A><U+2704><U+2706><U+2718><U+272B><U+2702><U+2718><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2706><U+271F><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2702><U+271F><U+2718><U+2724><U+2702><U+2706><U+2724><U+2718><U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+2704><U+2702><U+2714> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2723><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+270F><U+272F> <U+2730><U+272E><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+272F> <U+2729><U+2735><U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2702><U+2714> <U+271F>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+271F><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2718><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2725><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2734><U+2736><U+2734> <U+2732><U+272C><U+2737><U+2733><U+272E><U+272F><U+2732>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2719><U+271E><U+2725><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2701><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2738><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2723><U+273A><U+2734><U+2732><U+2737><U+273A><U+2734><U+2731><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+273D> <U+2731><U+272E><U+2732><U+2733><U+273D><U+273E><U+272E>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714> <U+271F>
              <U+271B><U+2731><U+273F> <U+270E><U+272E><U+273E> <U+271B><U+2732><U+2737> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2711><U+273B><U+2731> <U+2740><U+272C><U+273C> <U+271B><U+2731><U+273F> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+270E><U+272E><U+273E>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2718>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+271F><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2718><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2725><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2729><U+2714>   <U+2722><U+2734><U+2736><U+2734> <U+2732><U+272C><U+2737><U+2733><U+272E><U+272F><U+2732>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2719><U+271E><U+2725><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2701><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2738><U+2701><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2723><U+273A><U+2734><U+2732><U+2737><U+273A><U+2734><U+2731><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+273D> <U+2731><U+272E><U+2732><U+2733><U+273D><U+273E><U+272E>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2718>
              <U+271B><U+2731><U+273F> <U+2712><U+273C><U+272F> <U+271B><U+2732><U+2737> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2711><U+273A><U+2731> <U+2723><U+2731><U+2734> <U+2712><U+273C><U+273B> <U+270E><U+273B><U+2732> <U+2740><U+272C><U+273C> <U+2723><U+273A><U+272E> <U+270E><U+272E><U+273E>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2702><U+2714>   <U+2729>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+271F><U+2714>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2718><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2725><U+2711>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+271F><U+2729><U+2714>   <U+2722><U+2734><U+2736><U+2734> <U+2732><U+272C><U+2737><U+2733><U+272E><U+272F><U+2732>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+271F><U+2714> <U+271C><U+2716><U+2719><U+271E><U+2725><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2718><U+2714> <U+2738><U+2706><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2738><U+2706><U+2739>
              <U+2713><U+2718><U+2718><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2723><U+273A><U+2734><U+2732><U+2737><U+273A><U+2734><U+2731><U+273B><U+273C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+273D> <U+2731><U+272E><U+2732><U+2733><U+273D><U+273E><U+272E>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714> <U+2729>
              <U+2740><U+272C><U+273C> <U+270E><U+272E><U+273E> <U+270E><U+273B><U+2732> <U+2712><U+273C><U+273B> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271B><U+2731><U+273F> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2712><U+273C><U+273E> <U+270E><U+272E><U+273E>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                   <U+2723><U+272C><U+273F><U+272E> <U+271F>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+270E><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+270E><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2727><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2706><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2706><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704>
              <U+272D><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2731><U+2729><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2731><U+2729><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2727><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+272E><U+2717> <U+2721>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+260E>
              <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
                                                   <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2714> <U+261B>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2731><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2706><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2706><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2706><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2714> <U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271F>                  <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+260E>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+260E><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+270D><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F>
              <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726>    <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+260E><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+260E><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2714> <U+2706>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+271F>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+261B><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+261B><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2714> <U+2704>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272F><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2731><U+2726><U+2712> <U+272F><U+270F><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2706><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+271D>
              <U+272D><U+2727><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721><U+260E>
              <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2721>
              <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2714><U+272B>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+2730><U+2714> <U+271D>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2702>
              <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+271F>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2605> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+271D><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721>
              <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                    <U+270C><U+2714><U+2730><U+2717> <U+260E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2706>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+271D>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
                                                    <U+270C><U+2714><U+2730><U+2717>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+271D><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E><U+260E>
              <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+261E>
              <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+270E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2721>
                                                    <U+270C><U+2714><U+2730><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2702>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2706><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2706><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2729><U+272C> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723> <U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2729><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714>   <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2704>
                                                     <U+270C><U+2714><U+2730><U+2717> <U+271F><U+271F>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+260E><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+260E><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2729><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2706><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2706><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2730> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+271F>
                                                    <U+270C><U+2714><U+2730><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2721>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+260E><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+260E><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+271F>
              <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+270E>
              <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723> <U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2706>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+272F><U+2717> <U+271F><U+270E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2717>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272D><U+2729><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+272F><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2706>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+260E><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+260E><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2718> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+271F>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2718>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723> <U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2718>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+271F><U+2702><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+271F><U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2721>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+272F><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2706>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+270E>
              <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2729><U+2717> <U+272D><U+2729><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+271D>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2714><U+272F><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2704>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+271D>
              <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+270E><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+270E><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A> <U+270D><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2701><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2704>
              <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2729><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F>   <U+2605><U+2713>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271E><U+270C><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+2725><U+2723><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2711><U+2713><U+2715><U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A><U+2717><U+272B> <U+2727><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+272B><U+272C><U+2717>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2727><U+272F> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727> <U+272E><U+2729><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2717><U+272C> <U+2719><U+2717><U+272A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2713>
                                                     <U+261E><U+2714><U+272F><U+2717> <U+271F><U+271D>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2723><U+2730><U+2725> <U+271F><U+260E>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2722> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2722> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>    <U+2723><U+2722> <U+2701><U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D><U+260E>
              <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271D>
              <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2722> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2716><U+2723><U+2730><U+2725> <U+271F>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+271D><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+271F>
              <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>    <U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2721>
              <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2719><U+272F>   <U+2723><U+2722> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>    <U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                      <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2715>
              <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
                                                     <U+2716><U+2723><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2702>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718>    <U+2723><U+2722> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+271D>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2701><U+2722><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+272F> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
                                                       <U+2716><U+2723><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2721><U+271F>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+260E>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2727><U+2719>    <U+2723><U+2722> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+2730> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2723><U+2722> <U+272A><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                  <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2718><U+272E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+272F><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
                                                      <U+2716><U+2723><U+2730><U+2725> <U+2721><U+2721>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+261B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2706><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2706><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2706>
              <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+260E><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+260E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2704>
              <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+271B>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2722><U+272F><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2715>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2704><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2704><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2715><U+2730> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+272F><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2704><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2605><U+2715><U+2730>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2704><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2718><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2715>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+2706>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2706><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2706><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2605><U+2715><U+2730> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2715><U+2730> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+2704>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2718><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721>   <U+2723><U+2711><U+2724><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2717><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715><U+2727><U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+271E><U+271C><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2701><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2701><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+272F><U+2711><U+270D><U+2725><U+272F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2730><U+2715><U+2731> <U+270F><U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2731><U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2715><U+271A>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2722>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+271D>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2712> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2727><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271D>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+272D><U+2714> <U+2721><U+260E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+271F><U+2702><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+271F><U+2702><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F><U+260E>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727>    <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                     <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+270C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727>    <U+2605><U+2714> <U+2731><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                     <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+271F>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2605><U+2714> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2727><U+2726>
              <U+271F>              <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
                                                   <U+2724><U+2711><U+272D><U+2714> <U+2721>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>                    <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+2706>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272C><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721>
                                                    <U+2724><U+2711><U+272D><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2702>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+271D>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2702>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605> <U+2731><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
                                                  <U+2724><U+2711><U+272D><U+2714> <U+261B><U+271F>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+271F>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2727> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2730><U+2727><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2711><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2714><U+2729> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2730><U+2714><U+272B>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+261B>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+272B> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                  <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2724><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2605><U+2715> <U+272C><U+270F><U+2715> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2714>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                  <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+261B><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261E>   <U+2724><U+2719><U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+271E><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+271C><U+2704><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271C><U+2704><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2724><U+2725><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2714><U+270F><U+2713><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2706>
                                                  <U+2724><U+2711><U+272D><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2721>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722><U+271D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2722><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2722><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2730><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270E>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2719> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2722>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2730> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2721><U+2727> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2722>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2730><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270F><U+2730><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2706><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2706><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2730> <U+270F><U+2730><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2730> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+260E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+260E><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2706>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2730> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+260E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+260E><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2730><U+2726> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2704><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2704>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+271D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+271D><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2714> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2706><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2706><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2730> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2717> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2706><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2706><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270E><U+2719>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2702><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271F><U+271C> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271E><U+2723><U+272C><U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+2701><U+272E>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+270C><U+2726><U+2727><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+2730><U+2713><U+2717><U+2731><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2732><U+2719><U+270E>
              <U+271A><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2713><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2721> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2702><U+271C> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271F><U+271C>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271F><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2724><U+270C><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2726><U+2717><U+2727><U+2605><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726>
                                                    <U+261E><U+2717><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2722><U+271D>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2725><U+2724> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2605> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2704><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2723><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2715><U+260E>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+271F>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2721>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2715>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2723><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2715>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                  <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+271D><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2730> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+271D>
              <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2722><U+271C> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2730> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2730> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2723><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+271D><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+260E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2701><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2701><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2721>
              <U+2729><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2722><U+2725> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+271F>              <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2715>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2725>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2723><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2701><U+271F>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2704><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2704><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2730> <U+272D><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+271D><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+270E><U+272D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+261B>   <U+272E><U+2718><U+272F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2723><U+271A><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730><U+2719>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2706><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+2712><U+2706><U+2713>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+271B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725>
              <U+2720><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2706>
              <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+2731><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2725><U+271B> <U+272D><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2729><U+271B><U+272A> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2725><U+2605> <U+272B><U+2722><U+2605> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+271F>               <U+2706>                   <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                  <U+2716><U+2723><U+272A><U+2725> <U+2701><U+2721>

