                               ABSTRACT
The Fluid bag alarm is a rectangular device with a hole on the top of
it and a hook at the other end of it. The device is use in conjunction
with a hospital stand and sodium chloride irrigation bag. Once the
device is hook to the hospital stand, a fluid bag can be hook onto the
device. Once that is all set the device can be turn on. If there are
power to the unit the LED at the front will light up. Once the bag
almost run out or empty of fluid, an Alarm will sound out thus
notifying to the nurses that the patient needs their fluid bag changed
over.

       Dripping Bag Alarm
     Stainless steel casing
     Alarm / sensor / indicator
CB - Battery/Power supply
     Weighing mechanism
     to detect when
     fluid bag empties and lightens.
     Alarm will go off once
                   250ml - 2 Litre
                      Fluid Bag

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are four pages of description only

     Response
         Toa
Formalities Direction

                     AUSTRALIA
                 Patents Act 1990
         COMPLETE SPEVIFICATION
             INNOVATION PATENT
          FLUID BAG ALARM
The following statement is a full description of this invention,
  including the best method of performing it know to me.

                            FLUID BAG ALARM
Mid 2017 1was admitted to hospital due to blood getting into my
bladder. For the next week and a half I had to undergo a sodium
chloride irrigation of the bladder. The sodium chloride irrigation
solution is in a 2 litre bag. The bag get hooked to a stand, and from
the bag a drip is connected to it. From the drip is connected to the
person. This irrigation procedure basically flushes the blood out of
your bladder.
Here the problem. If the sodium chloride irrigation solution bag is
empty and a new bag is not replace. Blood will start to clot in the
bladder. The nurses tend to get to the patient on time and change
out the bag but when they are very busy, patients are missed or if
the bag is almost empty when they come to check they go off to do
sometime else which also cause them a delay to get back to the
patients.
This causes a lot of pain and discomfort in the bladder. Once the
bladder is full of clot the only way to remove the clot is for the
nurses and urologist to manually extract the clot, is even more
painful. A procedure that could take anywhere from 30 to 45
minutes. On a side note the extraction kit is a one use item which is
dispose of once used.
Therefore I have come up with a device, the Fluid bag alarm (see
figure 1) that will help alert the nurses that their patient need their
sodium chloride irrigation solution bag change. With the help of the
Fluid bag alarm they should be able to get to their patient when they
really need too. Which will free them up to do other task instead of
having to constantly checking on patient to see if they are ready for a
bag change. In the long run this should also save them on extraction
kits.

The Fluid Bag Alarm
Is a fairly straight forward device but please refer to figure 2 as I
explain the different components that makes up the front of the
device.
The Fluid bag alarm casing (2) should preferably be made with
stainless steel, however other materials can be used. Like hard
plastic. The casing itself will have a hole (1) so that it can hook onto a
stand. The front of the device have an on/off switch (3), so the alarm
can be switch off when not in use. When turn on the LED (8) will light
up to indicate that there power to the device. The length of the
device is 10 cm long (4) and the width of the device is 6 cm long
(5).The dimension of the device should allow the nurses to handle
the device fairly easily. The weighing mechanism (6) is to detect
when the fluid in the bag gets very low to empty an alarm will sound
out. Hook (7), to hook onto the fluid bag.
Figure 3. A side view of the Fluid bag alarm. Again Stainless steel or
other suitable material should be use.
Figure 4. The back of the device contain the speaker (1) so when the
fluid get low of empty, the alarm will produce a sound to notify the
nurses that the patient's fluid bag needs changing. Just below the
speaker you have the batteries housing cover (2). 2 x AA batteries
are inserted into this compartment for the unit to work.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining the invention are as follows;
  1. The Fluid bag alarm is a rectangular shape device that has a
      hole at the top of it. It also has a hook on the other end. On the
     front of the unit there an on/off button that can be depress,
      and just below that an LED. The back of the unit have a speaker
      build into the device. This is to allow sound to emit from it.
     There also a panel for the batteries compartment.
  2. The Fluid bag alarm as claimed in claim 1 can be constructed
      out of stainless steel.
  3. The Fluid bag alarm as claimed in claim 1 where the batteries
      panel can be removed to allow the insertion of two AA
      batteries.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
