ABSTRACT
             Embodiments include coatings for adherence of biomaterials to a tissue. Systems and
methods for adapting such coated materials to vascular access closure are further proved.
                                                 37
9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                            BIOMATERIALS FOR TRACK AND PUNCTURE CLOSURE
    Cross Reference to Related Applications
 5               This disclosure accompanies a divisional application of AU <removed-apn>, with the
    contents of AU <removed-apn> being incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
    Technical Field
                 The technical field relates to surgical methods and closure of punctures, for instance,
  0 percutaneous closure of femoral access punctures.
    Background
                 Clinicians perform many medical procedures by puncturing a blood vessel and
    introducing a small tube through the blood vessel that is guided to other parts of the body. A
 5  common point of entry is the femoral artery. Once the medical procedure is completed, the
    artery or other blood vessel has to be adequately closed so the patient can leave the operation
    site, and the puncture needs to heal.
                 Many devices have been created to facilitate closure after iatropic punctures have been
    made in the femoral artery.         Examples include devices described in US patents 5,108,421 to
 '0 Fowler, 5,192,302 or 5,222,974 to Kensey, and US Pub 2006/0100664 to Pai.                        The
    PERCLOSE system, introduced in 1994, was the first suture-mediated device to be approved
    by the Food and Drug Administration. PERCLOSE PROGLIDE is the latest generation,
    introduced in 2004. It offers improvements in the ease of knot delivery and strength and of
    the suture material. The system is composed of a sheath, a guide, a knot pusher accessory,
25  and a suture trimmer. The ANGIO-SEAL device is made up of three components: a specially
    designed polymer anchor, an absorbable collagen sponge, and an absorbable self-tightening
    suture.        The sponge is positioned in the puncture track outside the artery wall by a pulley
    system created by the anchor and suture. The device seals and sandwiches the arteriotomy
    between the anchor and the collagen plug. The STARCLOSE is a clip-mediated closure
30  device approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2005.                      The STARCLOSE
    introduces a small, circumferential, flexible clip that mechanically binds the surface of the
    femoral artery together.          The clip is made of nitinol, a nickel-titanium alloy with elastic
    properties that allow it to return to its original shape once released from the device. Its use
    involves a multi-step deployment process with a specialized application. The clip is left on
                                                         1
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    the outside of the artery.               The MYNX is a rolled-up biodegradable polymer sheet that is
    pushed into the puncture track and allowed to swell. The swelling secures the device and
    prevents blood flow.
 5  Summary
                 A percutaneous puncture of a blood vessel involves creating a track through the skin
    and puncturing a blood vessel.                The need to close the blood vessel is widely recognized
    because patients have traditionally been required to stay for long times with manual
    compression. Accordingly, devices have been made to shorten this time. There is another
  0 aspect to the closure and healing process, however, which is the sealing of the track that leads
    to the puncture.                  Blood from the tissue walls of the track can ooze into the track.
                 Conventional approaches involving a plug inside or at the blood vessel do not address
    blood seepage from the track. Described herein, however, are devices that may address both
    puncture closure and track sealing.
 5               Further, a vascular closure system that can efficiently close large bore punctures will
    enable advancement and adoption of additional percutaneous medical tools that would benefit
    from large access sites. Unfortunately, the force of blood pressure that tends to displace a
    plug in a blood vessel is proportional to the surface area of the plug so that the forces tending
    to push a plug out of a puncture increase by a power of two as the plug area is increased.
 '0 Accordingly, many conventional approaches to plugging a small bore puncture do not scale
    up to medium and large bore punctures.                 A medium bore puncture is defined herein as a
    puncture made with a gauge between, and inclusive of, 11 F to 14 F. A large bore puncture
    has a gauge of more than 14F.                  A small bore puncture has a gauge of less than 11 F.
    Described herein, however, are devices that provide medium and large bore sealing.
25               Certain embodiments herein may include techniques for sealing punctures with a
    combination of a biomaterial tamponade-and-adhesive combination. Another embodiment
    may provide application of adhesives to the track lumen. Another system may provide a
    tamponade biomaterial with adhesive coatings to seal against the track lumen so the material
    can seal both the track and the artery.             Other systems described may address closure of an
30  access site that is not femoral but is superficial. For instance, in a brachial access site, there is
    not enough track available to deploy a conventional vascular closure device.
                 Disclosed herein is an apparatus for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel
    puncture comprising an applicator and a plug, with the applicator comprising a distal sheath
    portion sized for placement in the track and having a distal opening and a lumen, and a pusher
                                                             2
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    received by the lumen for pushing the plug out of the lumen through the sheath distal
    opening, with the plug being sized for placement in the track and comprising a coated portion
    with a substantially dry coating, wherein the coating comprises at least one precursor that
    dissolves in physiological fluid after placement in the track and undergoes a covalent bonding
 5  reaction to form a matrix material that adheres the plug to the track and/or blood vessel, and
    an uncoated portion that exposes a porous portion of the plug to blood in the track, with the
    porous portion at least partially dehydrating the blood in the track.
                 A proximal portion of the plug may comprise the uncoated portion of the plug and a
    distal portion of the plug may comprise the coated portion of the plug. The coating may
 0  comprise a plurality of discrete blebs or discrete stripes separated by the uncoated portion.
    The uncoated portion may comprise a plurality of discontinuous subportions that are
    separated from each other by the coating. The coated portion may cover no more than about
    60% of the plug surface area. The puncture may be a vascular access site. The first precursor
    may comprise electrophilic functional groups and may further comprise a second precursor
 5  that may comprise nucleophilic functional groups. Both of the precursors may be polymers.
                 The plug may comprise a rod, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a twisted sheet, or a braided
    sheet. The apparatus may further comprise a release material disposed on at least a portion of
    the coating. The adherence of the coating to the tissue may exceed the strength of the plug, as
    testable by biomaterial failing before disadhering from the tissue. The plug may be readily
 '0 compressible by manual tamponade.           The plug may further comprise an axial lumen. The
    plug may comprise a dehydrated hydrogel. The plug may comprise a polygalactide matrix.
                 The first precursor may comprise electrophilic functional groups and may further
    comprise a second precursor that comprises nucleophilic functional groups. Both of the
    precursors may be polymers. The coating may be formed by applying the precursors in a
25  melted state to the plug or by applying the precursors in a liquid solution to the plug and
    evaporating solvent from the solution. The precursor may comprise electrophilic functional
    groups and a second precursor may comprise nucleophilic functional groups. Both of the
    precursors may be polymers. The plug may comprise a rod, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a twisted
    sheet, or a braided sheet. The precursor may comprise electrophilic functional groups and
30  may further comprise a second precursor that may comprise nucleophilic functional groups.
    Both of the precursors may be polymers. The plug may comprise a rod, a tube, a rolled-up
    sheet, a twisted sheet, or a braided sheet.
                 Also disclosed herein is a method for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel
    puncture comprising percutaneously introducing a porous plug into the track through an
                                                       3
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    applicator having a lumen terminating in a distal opening, the plug comprising a dry coating
    on a distal portion of the plug and being free of the coating on a proximal portion of the plug,
    wherein the coating comprises at least a first precursor that dissolves in physiological fluid
    after placement in the track and undergoes a covalent bonding reaction to form a matrix
 5  material that adheres the plug to tissue of the track and/or blood vessel, with the coating
    promoting adhesion at or near the puncture and the uncoated portion of the plug at least
    partially dehydrating blood in the track to reduce flow of blood from the lumen of the track
    into the track.
                 In the method the first precursor may comprise electrophilic functional groups and
 o  may further comprise a second precursor that comprises nucleophilic functional groups. Both
    of the precursors may be polymers. The coating may be formed by applying the precursors in
    a melted state to the plug or by applying the precursors in a liquid solution to the plug and
    evaporating solvent from the solution.
 5  Brief Description of the Figures
                 Fig. 1A depicts an embodiment of a coated biomaterial;
                 Fig. 1B depicts the embodiment of Fig. 1A being rolled-up;
                 Fig. IC is a cross-section of the embodiment of Fig 1B after being rolled-up;
                 Fig. 2A depicts a partially coated biomaterial with a coating disposed as a plurality of
 '0 stripes;
                 Fig. 2B depicts a partially coated biomaterial with a coating disposed as a plurality of
    blebs;
                 Fig. 2C depicts a partially coated biomaterial with a coating disposed as a plurality of
    rings;
25               Fig. 3A depicts a biomaterial coated on each of two faces;
                 Fig. 3B depicts a biomaterial partially coated on each of two faces, with the coating
    being a plurality of blebs;
                 Fig. 3C depicts a biomaterial partially coated on each of two faces, with the coating
    being a plurality of stripes;
30               Fig. 4A depicts a biomaterial sheet partially coated on a longitudinal half;
                 Fig. 4B depicts the material of Fig. 4A in a rolled configuration;
                 Fig. 5A depicts an elongate member attached to an occluding device positioned in a
    track and blood vessel;
                 Fig. 5B depicts a plug with a partial and discontinuous coating on a half of the plug;
                                                         4
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 Fig. 5C depicts a delivery apparatus and the plug of Fig 5B deployed over the elongate
    member of Fig. 5A;
                 Fig. 5D depicts the apparatus of Fig. 5C in a process of delivering the plug of Fig. 5B;
                 Fig. 5E depicts the apparatus of Fig. 5C in a further stage of a process of delivering
 5  the plug of Fig. 5B;
                 Fig. 5F is an alternative embodiment of the plug of Fig 5B as deployed in a track;
                 Fig. 6A depicts a delivery apparatus for a biomaterial plug with a substantially planar
    shape;
                 Fig. 6B is a longitudinal cross-section of the apparatus of Fig. 6A;
 0               Fig. 6C depicts the delivery apparatus of Fig. 6A and 6B with the biomaterial sheet
    removed and the radially expanding member in a storage (undeployed) position;
                 Fig. 6D depicts the apparatus of Fig. 6C in a deployed (radially expanded) position;
                 Fig. 6E depicts an elongate member attached to an occluding device positioned in a
    track and blood vessel;
 5               Fig. 6F depicts a cross-section of the apparatus of Figs. 6A and 6B as deployed over
    the elongate member of Fig. 6E;
                 Fig. 6G depicts a process of expanding the radially expanding member of the
    embodiment of Fig. 6F to deploy the biomaterial in the track;
                 Fig. 6H depicts a process of using the embodiment of Fig. 6F to deploy the
 '0 biomaterial in the track;
                 Fig. 61 depicts a further process of using the embodiment of Fig. 6F to deploy the
    biomaterial in the track;
                 Fig. 6J depicts a further, optional, process of using the embodiment of Fig. 6F to
    deploy the biomaterial in the track;
25               Fig 6K depicts an outcome of the process depicted at Fig. 6J;
                 Fig. 7 depicts an embodiment of a hand-held swab applicator;
                 Fig. 8A depicts a plug deployed in a vascular access site;
                 Fig. 8B depicts a process of using the embodiment of Fig. 7 in the site of Fig. 8A;
                 Fig. 8C depicts a further process of using the embodiment of Fig. 7 in the site of Fig.
30  8A;
                 Fig. 8D depicts an outcome of a process of Fig. 8C;
                 Fig. 9A depicts a coated plug with a backing and a compression device for
    compressing the plug on skin of a patient;
                 Fig. 9B depicts the plug of Fig. 9A in place on a patient' s skin;
                                                         5
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 Fig. 1OA depicts an applicator;
                 Fig. 1OB depicts the applicator of Fig. 1OA in use at a vascular access site for delivery
    of a precursor and a plug;
                 Fig. 1OC depicts the applicator of Fig. 1 OB in a process of delivering the precursor;
 5               Fig. 1OD depicts the applicator of Fig. 1OC in a process of delivering the precursor;
                 Fig. 10E depicts the applicator of Fig. 1OB in a process of delivering the plug; and
                 Fig. 11 is an embodiment of a plug system as used in Example 2.
    Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
 0               An embodiment of the invention is an adhesive plug sized for placement in an iatropic
    tract.       In the case of surgical access procedures, the tract is a track through a tissue that
    terminates in a blood vessel puncture. The track is a lumen defined by tissue walls. The
    adhesive plug should be small enough to pass into the track. The plug has a portion that is
    coated with a precursor or precursors that are substantially dry and react with physiological
 5  fluid to dissolve and form a matrix material. The material contributes to forming an adhesive
    force between the plug and a tissue, which could be walls of the track of tissues at or near the
    puncture. Coatings enhance closure of the blood vessel and also sealing of the track itself.
    These and other embodiments create new options for closing large bore or other punctures,
    for sealing tracks that otherwise tend to ooze blood, and for sealing short tracks.
 '0 Embodiments described herein include precursors or coated matrices placed into a track,
    including plugs or sheets.
    Coatings andprecursors
                 Figure 1A depicts biomaterial sheet 102 with a substantially dry adhesive coating 104
25  that is non-adherent when substantially dry but is adherent when exposed to a physiological
    solution (e.g., fluids in a wound or interstitial fluids). The term sheet refers to a generally
    planar structure with a thickness that is much less than the surface area. The sheet 102 is
    depicted as rectangular but may have other shapes. Figure lB is a conceptual image of how
    sheet 102 may be rolled-up. Figure IC is a cross-sectional view of the same sheet in a fully
30  rolled-up configuration. The sheet may thus be rolled so that it is biased to open by uncurling
    when unconstrained.
                 The coatings may be made with precursors that react with each other to create a
    matrix material.                  The matrix may be covalently crosslinked, or not, depending on the
    precursor.             Covalently crosslinked materials have a distinct chemical structure from not
                                                            6
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    covalently crosslinked material, and different properties including mechanical strength and
    solubility. The matrix may be a hydrogel. A hydrogel is hydrophilic but does not dissolve in
    water.
                 Precursors are components that undergo a chemical reaction to become part of a
 5  material. Hydrogel precursors can be prepared that react with each other to form covalent
    bonds in solution, with the precursors forming the structure of the hydrogel and being
    crosslinked into the hydrogel.                   In the case of a hydrogel, the dissolution of the precursors
    accompanied by a natural separation between them in the solution contributes to creating a
    hydrogel structure. In contrast, a common epoxy or cyanoacrylate material that merely reacts
  o to form a solid is not a hydrogel. Accordingly, some embodiments use a coating made with
    one or more hydrogel precursors that form a covalently crosslinked hydrogel. The precursors
    in the coating may be chosen to rapidly dissolve and crosslink upon exposure to physiological
    fluid. The precursors may be used to prepare coatings that are essentially dry until exposed to
    a physiological fluid. The fluid drives them into solution so that they can react with each
 5  other.
                 To form covalently crosslinked hydrogels, the precursors must be crosslinked
    together. In general, polymeric precursors will form polymers that will be joined to other
    polymers at two or more points, with each point being a linkage to the same or different
    polymers. Precursors with at least two reactive groups can serve as crosslinkers since each
 '0 reactive group can participate in the formation of a different growing polymer chain, e.g., as
    in free radical polymerization.                   In the case of functional groups without a reactive center,
    among others, crosslinking requires three or more such functional groups on a precursor. For
    instance,            many         electrophilic-nucleophilic   reactions   consume    the  electrophilic  and
    nucleophilic functional groups so that a third functional group is needed for the precursor to
25  form a crosslink. Such precursors thus may have three or more functional groups and may be
    crosslinked by precursors with two or more functional groups. A crosslinked molecule may
    be crosslinked via an ionic or covalent bond, a physical force, or other attraction. A covalent
    crosslink, however, will typically offer stability and a chemically distinct structure.
                 In some embodiments, one or more precursors are multifunctional. Precursors may
30  comprise three or more electrophilic or nucleophilic functional groups, such that a
    nucleophilic functional group on one precursor may react with an electrophilic functional
    group on another precursor to form a covalent bond.
                 The precursors may have biologically inert and hydrophilic portions, e.g., a core. In
    the case of a branched polymer, a core refers to a contiguous portion of a molecule joined to
                                                                  7
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    arms that extend from the core, with the arms having a functional group, which is often at the
    terminus of the branch. The hydrophilic precursor or precursor portion preferably is water
    soluble, meaning that it has a solubility of at least 1 g/100 mL in an aqueous solution. A
    hydrophilic portion may be, for instance, a polyether, for example, polyalkylene oxides such
 5  as      polyethylene              glycol (PEG), polyethylene oxide (PEO), polyethylene oxide-co
    polypropylene oxide (PPO), co-polyethylene oxide block or random copolymers, and
    polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), poly (vinyl pyrrolidinone) (PVP), poly (amino acids, dextran, or a
    protein). The precursors may have a polyalkylene glycol portion and may be polyethylene
    glycol based, with at least about 80% or 90% by weight of the polymer comprising
 O  polyethylene oxide repeats. The polyethers and more particularly poly (oxyalkylenes) or poly
    (ethylene glycol) or polyethylene glycol are generally hydrophilic.
                 A precursor may also be a macromolecule (or macromer), which is a molecule having
    a molecular weight in the range of a few thousand to many millions. In some embodiments,
    however, at least one of the precursors is a small molecule of about 1000 Da or less. The
 5  macromolecule, when reacted in combination with a small molecule of about 1000 Da or less,
    is preferably at least five to fifty times greater in molecular weight than the small molecule
    and is preferably less than about 60,000 Da; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the
    ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.         A more preferred
    range is a macromolecule that is about seven to about thirty times greater in molecular weight
 '0 than the crosslinker and a most preferred range is about ten to twenty times difference in
    weight. Further, a macromolecular molecular weight of 5,000 to 50,000 is useful, as is a
    molecular weight of 7,000 to 40,000 or a molecular weight of 10,000 to 20,000; artisans will
    immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are
    contemplated.
25               Certain macromeric precursors are the crosslinkable, biodegradable, water-soluble
    macromers described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,410,016 to Hubbell et al, which is hereby
    incorporated herein by reference in its entirety to the extent it does not contradict what is
    explicitly disclosed. These macromers are characterized by having at least two polymerizable
    groups, separated by at least one degradable region.
30               Synthetic precursors may be used. Synthetic refers to a molecule not found in nature
    or not normally found in a human. Some synthetic polymers are free of amino acids or free of
    amino acid sequences that occur in nature. Some synthetic molecules are polypeptides that
    are not found in nature or are not normally found in a human body, e.g., di-, tri-, or tetra
    lysine. Some synthetic molecules have amino acid residues but only have one, two, or three
                                                             8
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    that are contiguous, with the amino acids or clusters thereof being separated by non-natural
    polymers or groups. Polysaccharides or their derivatives are thus not synthetic.
                 Precursors may have, e.g., 2-100 arms, with each arm having a terminus, bearing in
    mind that some precursors may be dendrimers or other highly branched materials. An arm on
 5  a hydrogel precursor refers to a linear chain of chemical groups that connect a crosslinkable
    functional group to a polymer core. Some embodiments are precursors with between 3 and
    300 arms; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the
    explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g., 4 to 16, 8 to 100, or at least 6 arms.
                 Thus hydrogels can be made, e.g., from a multi-armed precursor with a first set of
 O  functional groups and a low molecular-weight precursor having a second set of functional
    groups. For example, a six-armed or eight-armed precursor may have hydrophilic arms, e.g.,
    polyethylene glycol, terminated with primary amines, with the molecular weight of the arms
    being about 1,000 to about 40,000; artisans will immediately appreciate that all ranges and
    values within the explicitly stated bounds are contemplated. Such precursors may be mixed
 5  with relatively smaller precursors, for example, molecules with a molecular weight of
    between about 100 and about 5000, or no more than about 800, 1000, 2000, or 5000 having at
    least about three functional groups, or between about 3 to about 16 functional groups;
    ordinary artisans will appreciate that all ranges and values between these explicitly articulated
    values are contemplated.                 Such small molecules may be polymers or non-polymers and
 '0 natural or synthetic.
                 Precursors that are not dendrimers may be used.          Dendritic molecules are highly
    branched radially symmetrical polymers in which the atoms are arranged in many arms and
    subarms radiating out from a central core. Dendrimers are characterized by their degree of
    structural perfection as based on the evaluation of both symmetry and polydispersity and
25  require particular chemical processes to synthesize.             Accordingly, an artisan can readily
    distinguish dendrimer precursors from non-dendrimer precursors. Dendrimers have a shape
    that is typically dependent on the solubility of its component polymers in a given
    environment, and can change substantially according to the solvent or solutes around it, e.g.,
    changes in temperature, pH, or ion content.               Dendrimers are highly ordered, possess high
30  surface          area        to   volume  ratios, and exhibit numerous   end   groups   for potential
    functionalization. Embodiments include multifunctional precursors that are not dendrimers.
                 Some embodiments include a precursor that consists essentially of an oligopeptide
    sequence of no more than five residues, e.g., amino acids comprising at least one amine, thiol,
    carboxyl, or hydroxyl side chain. A residue is an amino acid, either as occurring in nature or
                                                            9
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    derived thereof. The backbone of such an oligopeptide may be natural or synthetic. In some
    embodiments, peptides of two or more amino acids are combined with a synthetic backbone
    to make a precursor; certain embodiments of such precursors have a molecular weight in the
    range of about 100 to about 10,000 or about 300 to about 500. Artisans will immediately
 5  appreciate that all ranges and values between these explicitly articulated bounds are
    contemplated.
                 Precursors may be prepared to be free of amino acid sequences cleavable by enzymes
    present at the site of introduction, including free of sequences susceptible to attach by
    metalloproteinases and/or collagenases.               Further, precursors may be made to be free of all
 0  amino acids, or free of amino acid sequences of more than about 50, 30, 20, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5,
    4, 3, 2, or 1 amino acids.                Precursors may be non-proteins, meaning that they are not a
    naturally occurring protein and can not be made by cleaving a naturally occurring protein and
    can not be made by adding synthetic materials to a protein. Precursors may be non-collagen,
    non-fibrin, non-fibrinogen), and non-albumin, meaning that they are not one of these proteins
 5  and are not chemical derivatives of one of these proteins. The use of non-protein precursors
    and limited use of amino acid sequences can be helpful for avoiding immune reactions,
    avoiding unwanted cell recognition, and avoiding the hazards associated with using proteins
    derived from natural sources. Precursors can also be non-saccharides (free of saccharides) or
    essentially non-saccharides (free of more than about 5% saccharides by w/w of the precursor
 '0 molecular weight). Thus a precursor may, for example, exclude hyaluronic acid, heparin, or
    gellan. Precursors can also be both non-proteins and non-saccharides.
                 Peptides may be used as precursors.           In general, peptides with less than about 10
    residues are preferred, although larger sequences (e.g., proteins) may be used. Artisans will
    immediately appreciate that every range and value within these explicit bounds is included,
25  e.g., 1-10, 2-9, 3-10, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7. Some amino acids have nucleophilic groups (e.g.,
    primary amines or thiols) or groups that can be derived as needed to incorporate nucleophilic
    groups or electrophilic groups (e.g., carboxyls or hydroxyls).                 Polyamino acid polymers
    generated synthetically are normally considered to be synthetic if they are not found in nature
    and are engineered not to be identical to naturally occurring biomolecules.
30               Some            hydrogels are made     with  a polyethylene    glycol-containing precursor.
    Polyethylene glycol (PEG, also referred to as polyethylene oxide when occurring in a high
    molecular weight) refers to a polymer with a repeat group (CH 2 CH 20)", with n being at least
    3. A polymeric precursor having a polyethylene glycol thus has at least three of these repeat
    groups connected to each other in a linear series.                 The polyethylene glycol content of a
                                                              10
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    polymer or arm is calculated by adding up all of the polyethylene glycol groups on the
    polymer or arm, even if they are interrupted by other groups. Thus, an arm having at least
    1000 MW polyethylene glycol has enough CH 2 CH 2 0 groups to total at least 1000 MW. As is
    customary terminology in these arts, a polyethylene glycol polymer does not necessarily refer
 5  to a molecule that terminates in a hydroxyl group.
    InitiatingSystems
                 Some precursors react using initiators. An initiator group is a chemical group capable
    of initiating chain growth (e.g., a free radical) polymerization reaction. For instance, it may
  0 be present as a separate component, or as a pendent group on a precursor.                     Free radical
    initiator groups include thermal initiators, photoactivatable initiators, and oxidation-reduction
    (redox) systems.                   Long wave UV and visible light photoactivatable initiators include, for
    example,             ethyl        eosin groups, 2, 2-dimethoxy-2-phenyl    acetophenone     groups,  other
    acetophenone derivatives, thioxanthone groups, benzophenone groups, and camphorquinone
 5  groups.          Examples of thermally reactive initiators include 4, 4'        azobis (4cyanopentanoic
    acid) groups, and analogs of benzoyl peroxide groups. Several commercially available low
    temperature free radical initiators, such as V-044, available from Wako Chemicals USA, Inc.,
    Richmond, Va., may be used to initiate free radical crosslinking reactions at body
    temperatures to form hydrogels with the aforementioned monomers.
 .0              Metal ions may be used either as an oxidizer or a reductant in redox initiating systems.
    For example, ferrous ions may be used in combination with a peroxide or hydroperoxide to
    initiate polymerization, or as parts of a polymerization system. In this case, the ferrous ions
    would serve as a reductant. Alternatively, metal ions may serve as an oxidant. For example,
    the ceric ion (4+ valence state of cerium) interacts with various organic groups, including
25  carboxylic acids and urethanes, to remove an electron to the metal ion, and leave an initiating
    radical behind on the organic group. In such a system, the metal ion acts as an oxidizer.
    Potentially suitable metal ions for either role are any of the transition metal ions, lanthanides
    and actinides, which have at least two readily accessible oxidation states. Particularly useful
    metal ions have at least two states separated by only one difference in charge. Of these, the
30  most commonly used are ferric/ferrous; cupric/cuprous; ceric/cerous; cobaltic/cobaltous;
    vanadate V vs. IV; permanganate;                    and manganic/manganous.       Peroxygen containing
    compounds, such as peroxides and hydroperoxides, including hydrogen peroxide, t-butyl
    hydroperoxide, t-butyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, cumyl peroxide may be used.
                                                             11
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 An example of an initiating system is the combination of a peroxygen compound in
    one solution, and a reactive ion, such as a transition metal, in another.                 In this case, no
    external initiators of polymerization are needed and polymerization proceeds spontaneously
    and without application of external energy or use of an external energy source when two
 5  complementary reactive functional groups containing moieties interact at the application site.
    FunctionalGroups
                 The precursors may have functional groups that react with each other to form the
    material, either outside a patient, or in situ.                   The functional groups generally have
 0  polymerizable groups for polymerization or react with each other in electrophile-nucleophile
    reactions or are configured to participate in other polymerization reactions.
                 Thus in some embodiments, precursors have a polymerizable group that is activated
    by photoinitiation or redox systems as used in the polymerization arts, e.g., or electrophilic
    functional             groups that are carbodiimidazole,        sulfonyl  chloride,  chlorocarbonates,   n
 5  hydroxysuccinimidyl ester, succinimidyl ester or sulfasuccinimidyl esters, or as in U.S. Pat.
    Nos. 5,410,016, or 6,149,931, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
    entirety to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.                     The
    nucleophilic functional groups may be, for example, amine, hydroxyl, carboxyl, and thiol.
    Another class of electrophiles are acyls, e.g., as in U.S. Pat. No. 6,958,212, which describes,
 '0 among other things, Michael addition schemes for reacting polymers.
                 Certain functional groups, such as alcohols or carboxylic acids, do not normally react
    with other functional groups, such as amines, under physiological conditions (e.g., pH 7.2
    11.0, 37 0 C).              However, such functional groups can be made more reactive by using an
    activating            group such as N-hydroxysuccinimide.             Certain activating groups include
25  carbonyldiimidazole,                 sulfonyl  chloride, aryl    halides,  sulfosuccinimidyl   esters,  N
    hydroxysuccinimidyl ester, succinimidyl ester, epoxide, aldehyde, maleimides, imidoesters
    and the like. The N-hydroxysuccinimide esters or N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (NHS) groups
    are useful groups for crosslinking of proteins or amine-containing polymers, e.g., amino
    terminated polyethylene glycol. Other functional groups are SG (succinimidyl glutarate), SS
30  (succinimidyl                succinate),  SC  (succinimidyl   carbonate),   SAP   (succinimidyl   adipate),
    carboxymethyl hydroxybutyric acid (CM-HBA or "CM") may be used and have esteric
    linkages that are hydrolytically labile. More hydrophobic linkages such as suberate linkages
    may also be used, with these linkages being less degradable than succinate, glutarate or
    adipate linkages.
                                                              12
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 An advantage of an NHS-amine reaction is that the reaction kinetics are favorable, but
    the gelation rate may be adjusted through pH or concentration. The NHS-amine crosslinking
    reaction leads to formation of N-hydroxysuccinimide as a side product.               Sulfonated or
    ethoxylated forms of N-hydroxysuccinimide have a relatively increased solubility in water
 5  and hence their rapid clearance from the body. An NHS-amine crosslinking reaction may be
    carried out in aqueous solutions and in the presence of buffers, e.g., phosphate buffer (pH 5.0
    7.5), triethanolamine buffer (pH 7.5-9.0), or borate buffer (pH 9.0-12), or sodium bicarbonate
    buffer (pH 9.0-10.0). Aqueous solutions of NHS based crosslinkers and functional polymers
    preferably are made just before the crosslinking reaction due to reaction of NHS groups with
 0  water. The reaction rate of these groups may be delayed by keeping these solutions at lower
    pH (pH 4-7).
                 In some embodiments,     each precursor comprises        only nucleophilic   or only
    electrophilic functional groups, so long as both nucleophilic and electrophilic precursors are
    used in the crosslinking reaction.       Thus, for example, if a crosslinker has nucleophilic
 5  functional groups such as amines, the functional polymer may have electrophilic functional
    groups such as N-hydroxysuccinimides. On the other hand, if a crosslinker has electrophilic
    functional groups such as sulfosuccinimides,            then the functional polymer may have
    nucleophilic functional groups such as amines or thiols. Thus, functional polymers such as
    proteins, poly(allyl amine), or amine-terminated di-or multifunctional poly(ethylene glycol)
 '0 can be used.
                 One embodiment has reactive precursor species with 3 to 16 nucleophilic functional
    groups each and reactive precursor species with 2 to 12 electrophilic functional groups each;
    artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated
    ranges are contemplated.
25               The functional groups may be, e.g., electrophiles reactable with nucleophiles, groups
    reactable with specific nucleophiles, e.g., primary amines, groups that form amide bonds with
    materials in the biological fluids, groups that form amide bonds with carboxyls, activated
    acid functional groups, or a combination of the same. The functional groups may be, e.g., a
    strong electrophilic functional group, meaning an electrophilic functional group that
30  effectively forms a covalent bond with a primary amine in aqueous solution at pH 9.0 at room
    temperature and pressure and/or an electrophilic group that reacts by a of Michael-type
    reaction. The strong electrophile may be of a type that does not participate in a Michael-type
    reaction or of a type that participates in a Michaels-type reaction.
                                                       13
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 A Michael-type reaction refers to the 1, 4 addition reaction of a nucleophile on a
    conjugate unsaturated system. The addition mechanism could be purely polar, or proceed
    through a radical-like intermediate state(s); Lewis acids or appropriately designed hydrogen
    bonding species can act as catalysts. The term conjugation can refer both to alternation of
 5  carbon-carbon, carbon-heteroatom or heteroatom-heteroatom multiple bonds with single
    bonds, or to the linking of a functional group to a macromolecule, such as a synthetic polymer
    or a protein. Michael-type reactions are discussed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6,958,212, which
    is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes to the extent it does not contradict what is
    explicitly disclosed herein.        Examples of strong electrophiles that do not participate in a
  0 Michael-type reaction are: succinimides, succinimidyl esters, NHS-esters, or maleimides.
    Examples of Michael-type electrophiles are acrylates, methacrylates, methylmethacrylates,
    and other unsaturated polymerizable groups.
                 Regarding reaction rates, buffers, e.g., borate, carbonate, or phosphate salts can be
    added to the coating, the biomaterial, or the tissue to adjust the pH to increase the reaction
 5  rate of electrophilic functional groups such as succimide esters or maleimides.
                 A number of hydrogel precursors are available that could be chosen and processed
    into coatings with these characteristics. For instance, polyethylene glycol (PEG, a polymer
    with (CH 2-CH 2 -0) repeats, this mer also being referred to as the PEG group) with
    electrophilic and/or nucleophilic functional groups may be used. These may also be used in
 '0 combination with non-PEGs, e.g., di-, tri-, or tetralysine, among others; in general, see U.S.
    Pat. Nos. 7,597,882 filed April 24, 2007; 6,605,294 filed August 14, 1998; 6,566,406 filed
    December 3, 1999; 6,703,047 filed February 2, 2001; 7,220,270 filed January 13, 2004; and
    U.S. Serial No. 11/406,791 filed April 19, 2006, which are hereby incorporated by reference
    herein in their entireties.
25               Precursors that are non-PEG based compounds are included. Some precursors are free
    of the PEG group (CH 2-CH 2-0), some are free of more than one PEG group, and some are
    free of all ethers. Other precursors have more than one PEG group but do not have more than
    two of them adjacent to each other. Some precursors have less than 500, 400, 300, 200, 100,
    or 50 in molecular weight of PEG groups, while others have between 40-500 molecular
30  weight of PEG groups; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values
    within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.
                 Precursors may be prepared in a purified preparation that has a high concentration of
    the precursors, i.e., more than about 75% w/w. Such preparations may be prepared with a
    greater purity, e.g., more than about 90%, 95%, or 99% w/w.              Artisans will immediately
                                                       14
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.
    More than one type of precursor may be mixed together to form the purified preparation as
    appropriate. One advantage of using such a preparation is that it may be used directly without
    dilution, e.g., when crosslinking other precursors.
 5               Some precursors preparations may be prepared to be essentially free of water. For
    instance, dry reagents may be used, or the crosslinker may be purified through precipitation or
    lyophilization processes.
                 The adherence, strength and swelling of the coating can be controlled by the amount,
    pattern and type of precursor in the coating.           Coating is a term that denotes a layer on an
 0  object. The term coating or layer may be used interchangeably, and a plurality of layers being
    collectively referred to as a coating when appropriate.           In contrast, other constructs, e.g.,
    sheaths, sleeves, membranes, and molded objects, can be manufactured separately from a
    particular device and are not coatings and are not layers. For example, a sleeve, sheath, or
    membrane requires a certain minimum of mechanical robustness so as to maintain its identity
 5  before being associated with an object. Further, a process of coating creates an intimacy of
    contact between the coating and the device that is often desirable; for this reason, some
    processes involve coatings instead of other manufacturing procedures.
                 It is recognized, however, that a coating can have variable characteristics.     Thus a
    coating may be discontinuous with a surface at some points and still retain its characteristic as
 '0 a coating. Coatings may also be formed of a single layer, or a plurality of layers. Coatings,
    and layers, can have a variable thickness, variable composition, variable chemical properties.
    Coatings, and layers, may cover all or a portion of a surface.                 Layers may, e.g., be
    superimposed upon other layers to create a coating.
                 Layers may be made from a single type of precursor or a plurality of precursors.
25  Some layers are useful for providing a foundational layer that contacts a device and serves to
    anchor subsequently applied layers. For example, a first layer with reactive functional groups
    may be applied to a device, and a subsequent layer may be applied to the foundational layer.
                 A therapeutic agent may be associated with a foundational layer, the subsequently
    applied layer, or both.           Therapeutic agents may be associated with a precursor before the
30  precursor is applied to a device.            The precursor may be prepared and then exposed to a
    solution containing a solvent for the agent.            The agent and the precursor are allowed to
    interact, and the agent becomes associated with the precursor. Alternatively, a therapeutic
    agent may be added to a precursor melt or the therapeutic agent may be exposed to a
    precursor at essentially the same time that the agent and the precursor are essentially
                                                         15
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    simultaneously applied to a device.               The precursor and the agent may be in the same or
    different solvent, or alternatively, in the same or different non-solvents that are carrier agents.
    The application of one or both of the precursor and the agent in a non-solvent would affect
    the resultant layer.              Therapeutic agents may be associated with a layer after the layer is
 5  applied to a device. One method is to expose the layer to a mixture containing the agent. The
    mixture may include a relatively good solvent for both the agent and the layer so that the layer
    is swelled and the agent migrates therethrough. When the solvent is removed, the agent is left
    in the layer.
 O  Coatingformation
                 Processes for forming a layer on an object, e.g., a backing, a biomaterial, or a medical
    device, may include applying a composition to a device by spraying, or by dipping the device
    into a composition for forming a polymeric layer. Materials taught herein may be formed in
    layers upon a medical device, including a layer that covers all of a device, a discontinuous
 5  layer that covers a portion of the device, and layers upon other layers. Layers that contact
    each other may be crosslinked to each other, e.g., by covalent crosslinks between polymers in
    the layers.
                 Creation of dry precursor coatings may be done in any of several ways.               The
    components may be melted together and then a thin coating applied to the biomaterial that is
 '0 to be adhered to the site. Melting points for such precursors would be chosen to provide for
    the material to be a solid at room temperature (about 20'C) and/or at physiological
    temperature (about 37 0 C). For instance, precursors may be selected so that a thin coating of
    melted PEG ester and amine precursors may be applied to one or both sides of a lyophilized
    hydrogel biomaterial and allowed to come to room temperature, at which point the coating is
25  solidified.
                 Another approach to make a coating is to use a blend of two or more precursors in a
    dry powder form. This dry powder form can be generated by a dry blending process or, if
    stability does not prove to be an issue, by a solvent based blending process (such as methanol
    or water) as a co-solvent, followed by drying. The powder can be mixed with binding agents
30  to prepare a coating.
                 One embodiment of an adhesive coating is made by mixing of polyethylene glycol
    (PEG) reactive esters (e.g., succinimide esters and/or maleimides) and PEG amines (e.g.,
    equimolar amounts of esters and amines). Salt forms of PEG amines may be used instead of
    free PEG amines, for stability purposes, since they withstand storage and sterilization better
                                                            16
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    and have a lower tendency to spontaneously pre-react.           An alternative embodiment is a
    layering of the precursors. Thus a first layer of one precursor is applied to the device and a
    second layer of another precursor is applied thereupon. Or different ratios of the precursors
    could be applied in various layers. Accordingly, a first layer could comprise or consist of
 5  precursors with nucleophilic groups and a second layer could comprise electrophilic groups.
    Full and partialcoatings, uncoatedportions of materials
                 Figure 2A depicts biomaterial sheet 102 with stripes of adhesive 104.      Figure 2B
    depicts biomaterial sheet 102 with blebs 106 of coating. A bleb is a term used herein to
  0 denote a deposit on a relatively much larger and continuous field, with a plurality of blebs
    being deposits not connected to each other: for example, a drop or dot, be it rounded or
    irregular in shape. Examples of bleb volumes are 0.1 to 100 pl; artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.
    Figure 2C depicts a biomaterial rod 108 with a plurality of stripes 110.
 5               Figure 3A depicts biomaterial sheet 112 with two faces separated by a thickness with
    a continuous coating 114 on each of the two faces. Figure 3B depicts biomaterial sheet 112
    with two faces separated by a thickness with a discontinuous and partial coating 116 on each
    of the two faces, with the discontinuous coating comprising a plurality of blebs 118 that are
    approximately elliptical or circular. Figure 3C depicts biomaterial sheet 112 with two faces
 '0 separated by a thickness with discontinuous coating 120 on each of the two faces, with the
    discontinuous coating 120 comprising a plurality of domains that are stripes 122.
                 The coatings may be disposed in various patterns, e.g., dots, stripes, dashed stripes,
    checkerboard, or wavy stripes. The patterns are disposed across a surface area with between,
    e.g., 10% and 90% coverage; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and
25  values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.       For instance in Figure 3C the
    stripes overlay about a third or a half the pattern surface area. The choice of the pattern and
    the percent coverage of the surface area can be used to tune the rate of dissolving (and thus
    bonding) of precursors, the exposure of the biomaterial to physiological fluids, e.g., as in
    accelerating or decelerating swelling of a hydratable and swellable biomaterial.
30               Figure 4A depicts biomaterial 112 having a partial and continuous coating 124. The
    adhesive coating 124 is formed on one portion of biomaterial 112 that is then rolled to form
    plug 126 with a first half or other portion 128 that is free of coating and a second half or other
    portion that is coated 130, as at Figure 4B. The coating 124 in this example extends fully
    around the circumference of the coated portion.
                                                      17
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 A non-continuous (discontinuous) coating (e.g., dots, stripes) allows for the non
    coated material to react directly with its environment. In the case of a material that readily
    absorbs fluid, an uncoated portion allows for blood or other fluid absorption into the material.
    A swellable material would thus swell more readily and rapidly when it is uncoated.
 5  Accordingly, a discontinuous coating (e.g., dots, stripes) can enhance fluid absorption. In the
    first place, the fluid has enhanced access to the coating itself. In the second place, the
    underlying biomaterial may be chosen as a hydratable material that fills and/or swells in
    response to fluid.                A discontinuous coating provides enhanced access to such a material,
    improving its swelling ability to fill the track and/or apply compressive force to a vascular
  0 puncture. A swelling material causes the hydrogel coating to be in close proximity to the
    tissue.
                 The coating and/or underlying biomaterial can be prepared with an open structure that
    facilitates rapid fluid uptake. A discontinuous coating that has channels or spaces that allow
    fluid access to the coating accelerates dissolution of the precursors therein. The precursors
 5  may also be lyophilized to provide a porous and permeable structure that facilitates fluid
    uptake. For example, the precursors may be prepared as a solution that is frozen and then
    lyophilized.              Alternatively, the precursors may be prepared in a solution that is rapidly
    removed by evaporation, either by use of a volatile solvent (small alcohols or volatile organic
    solvents) and/or with a low-pressure.                  In contrast, a drying-out process at ambient or
 '0 comparable conditions is not rapid evaporation and can provide opportunity for aggregation
    that tends to resist rapid dissolution. Dry chemistry protocols that minimize exposure to
    water generally assist in preparing precursors and coatings.
                 If a coating is found to interfere with the unfurling or opening of a material substrate
    that is intended to transition from a compact to an expanded position or shape, a thin
25  interfacial layer of a releasing agent may be applied. A releasing agent may be generally
    applied for these or other reasons. Such releasing agents may include finely powdered sugars,
    salts, liquid PEGs, pharmaceutically acceptable oils, or other pharmaceutically acceptable
    vehicles.
                 Buffers may be used in combination with a coating. The buffers may be mixed with
30  the precursors in a layer or provided as a separate layer on or under the precursor layer(s). A
    buffer embodiment is a carbonate, phosphate, or borate buffer effective to increase
    concentration around the applicator above neutral to accelerate the reaction.                 In some
    embodiments, the pH is raised to a value between pH 8.5 and 10; artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated,
                                                              18
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    e.g., more than about pH 8.5, more than about pH 9, from about pH 8 to about pH 10. One
    measure of the effectiveness of the buffer is to test the rate of the reaction and/or quality of
    the seal when the buffer is used: in the case of a track, the precursors can be tested with and
    without the buffer to determine if the pH is effectively being raised as indicated by changes to
 5  the precursors'                 activity. An embodiment of the bufer is a powder mixed with a binding
    agent. A binding agent may be chosen that dissolves in a physiological fluid. Examples of
    binding agents are polyethylene glycols (e.g., 1000 - 30,000 MW; artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated,
    e.g., 10,000) or polysaccharides. Further, in some embodiments, the buffer and binding agent
 0  mixture is chosen to dissolve more rapidly that the precursor reservoir on the applicator. For
    instance, a PEG binding agent may be chosen that has a lower MW than a PEG-containing
    precursor on the applicator.
    Materials that receive a layer
 5               Some embodiments involve a coated biomaterial. Many biomaterials may be adapted
    for coating. Collagens are degradable and generally well-accepted in the medical community
    and may be processed into desired shapes.                  Other naturally-derived biomaterials include
    gelatin, hyaluronic acid, fibrin, fibrinogen, and polysaccharides.              Synthetic materials (not
    found in nature and not processed from materials found in nature) may alternatively be used,
 '0 as described above. In general, the material is to be processed into a shape that is suited to
    the application, so that it fits into the tissue site and satisfies the intended use, such as
    stopping flow from a blood vessel and/or from tissue around a track.
                 This biomaterial             may be   made  of a biodegradable     material.   Lyophilized
    biocompatible materials are suited for this purpose, since they are biocompatible, have a
25  history of human use in this setting, and can also swell and aid in the vascular closure. Such
    materials can be used to simply and rapidly seal small bore sites. Such existing technology
    works well without adhesive adjuncts or coatings for the smaller holes, but with access sites
    of about 8F and larger, the potential exists for plugs that are secured by swelling to be
    dislodged and result in the consequent development of a hematoma.                       U.S. Serial No.
30  11/465,791 filed August 18, 2006, which discloses exemplary materials and methods for
    making them, is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                 The biomaterial itself may be made of components that are described herein for use as
    precursors.              The coating may be the same as the biomaterial but would normally have
    different characteristics that are suited to its specialized function.               Accordingly, such
                                                             19
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    materials may be reacted with each other outside the body to prepare a biomaterial and
    prepared with a shape as desired.
                 Lyophilized hydrogels made from PEG precursors are well suited for the biomaterials
    to be used as plugs, since they are biocompatible, have a history of human use in this setting,
 5  and can also swell to aid in the vascular closure. PEG hydrogel precursors may be selected
    for a thin coating. For instance, melted PEG ester and amine precursors may be applied to
    one or both sides of the lyophilized hydrogel biomaterial and allowed to come to room
    temperature, at which point the coating is solidified.
                 The biomaterial may be water-degradable, as measurable by the hydrogel being
 0  dissolvable in vitro in an excess of water by degradation of water-degradable groups. This
    test is predictive of hydrolytically-driven dissolution in vivo, a process that is in contrast to
    cell or protease-driven degradation. The hydrogels can be selected to be absorbable over
    days, weeks, or months, depending on the drug selected, disease being treated, the duration
    for release that is needed, and the release profile of the specific drug selected.
 5               The biodegradable linkage may be water-degradable or enzymatically degradable.
    Illustrative water-degradable biodegradable linkages include polymers, copolymers and
    oligomers of glycolide, dl-lactide, 1-lactide, dioxanone, esters, carbonates, and trimethylene
    carbonate.               Illustrative enzymatically biodegradable linkages include peptidic linkages
    cleavable by metalloproteinases and collagenases.                Examples of biodegradable linkages
 '0 include           polymers         and  copolymers  of poly(hydroxy    acid)s,  poly(orthocarbonate)s,
    poly(anhydride)s, poly(lactone)s, poly(aminoacid)s, poly(carbonate)s, poly(phosphonate)s.
                 If it is desired that the biocompatible crosslinked polymer be bioresorbable or
    absorbable, one or more precursors having biodegradable linkages present in between the
    functional groups may be used. The biodegradable linkage optionally also may serve as the
25  hydrophilic core of one or more of the precursors. For each approach, biodegradable linkages
    may be chosen such that the resulting biodegradable biocompatible crosslinked polymer will
    degrade or be absorbed in a desired period of time.
                 The crosslinked hydrogel degradation will generally proceed by the water-driven
    hydrolysis of the biodegradable segment when water-degradable materials are used.                    If
30  polyglycolate is used as the biodegradable segment, for instance, the crosslinked polymer
    could be made to degrade in about 1 to about 30 days depending on the crosslinking density
    of the network. Similarly, a polycaprolactone based crosslinked network can be made to tend
    to degrade in about 1 to about 8 months. The degradation time generally varies according to
    the type of degradable segment used, in the following order: polyglycolate < polylactate <
                                                            20
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    polytrimethylene carbonate < polycaprolactone.          Polymers that include ester linkages may
    also be included to provide a desired degradation rate, with groups being added or subtracted
    near the esters to increase or decrease the rate of degradation. Thus it is possible to construct a
    hydrogel with a desired degradation profile, from a few days to many months, using a
 5  degradable segment.
    Use of a coated material
                 An embodiment of a system for using a coated material is set forth in Figure 5. At
    Figure 5A, an iatropic tract 200 has track 202 and puncture 204 in blood vessel 206. A
 O  balloon 205 has been inflated via guidewire or larger gauge introducer wire 207 using means
    known to artisans. Figure 5B depicts plug 218 that has uncoated proximal portion 220 and
    partially coated distal portion 222. A coating comprising matrix precursors is provided as a
    plurality of blebs 224. The plug has axial bore 209 for passage over a guidewire, hollow wire,
    catheter, or other elongate member. A guidewire is a hollow wire with an outer dimension of
 5  less than about 0.08 inches. Hollow wire is a broader term referring to guidewires or larger
    wires with an inner bore. Figure 5C depicts applicator 208 loaded with plug 218. Applicator
    208 has pusher rod 210 with handle 212 that is received by delivery sheath 214 that has
    handle 216. Sheath 214 is preloaded with plug 218. Pusher rod 210 has a first deployment
    position and a second tamping position. Wire 207 passes through plug 218 and applicator
 '0 208. With pusher rod 210 in the deployment position, sheath 214 is introduced into track 202
    to place its distal tip 223 proximate puncture 204. While pusher rod 210 is held stationary or
    forced downwardly to apply force against plug 218, a user pulls handles 216 upwardly, as at
    Figure 5D and arrows D, to move distal tip 223 upwardly relative to the user to expose coated
    distal portion 222.
25               At Figure 5E, the user pushes pusher rod 210 downwardly to compress plug 218. The
    coated and uncoated portions of the plug are firmly held against the tissue for a predetermined
    amount of time, e.g., 10-120 seconds (artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges
    and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated). The coating dissolves and
    physiological fluids access the uncoated plug portions. A swellable plug swells as a result,
30  and contribute to hemostasis at the plug. The balloon is subsequently deflated through the
    hollow wire and withdrawn through the plug. Swelling may contribute to resist devasation
    (forcing of the plug out of the track). Adhesion of the coating to the tissue further contribute
    to resist devasation, i.e., to promote stable positioning. Some embodiments may provide a
    plug biased to open, e.g., a plug made of a sheet furled about its axis so that it is biased to
                                                       21
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    unfurl, or a compressed and resilient material. The term plug is a broad term that refers to a
    material blocking a channel, and includes rods, hollow tubes, dumbbell shapes, cones, and so
    forth. The plug is preformed outside the body unless in situ formation is indicated.
                 As is evident, the plug does not enter the blood vessel, although it could be so placed.
 5  The plug achieves closure proximate the blood vessel without actually entering it. The plug
    can engage the adventitia or be proximate the adventitia, i.e., about 1-5 mm away from the
    adventitia (artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the
    explicitly stated ranges are contemplated). The closure at such positions allows for natural
    clotting processes to take place at the blood vessel puncture.
 0               Alternatively, Figure 5F depicts an alternative embodiment, with plug 250 that has
    uncoated distal portion 252 and partially coated proximal portion 254. This configuration
    will allow for adherence of the coated plug, preventing expulsion due to blood pressure in the
    vessel, while ensuring dissolved and polymerized coating stay away from the vessel
    arteriotomy and intravascular space.                 In the depicted example, track 256 has proximal portion
 5  258 unsealed, with blood oozing into the upper portion of the track and congealing.
                  Another embodiment for using a coated material as a fully implanted device for
    vascular closure is depicted at Figure 6. Figures 6A and 6B depict applicator 300 extending
    from catheter 302. Applicator 300 has plug 304, inner mandrel 306, and outer mandrel 308.
    Plug 304 has a biomaterial sheet 310 with coating 312. The coating may be a coating as
 '0 described herein, for instance one or more dried precursors that form a matrix when exposed
    to a physiological fluid.                 Sheet 310 has opening 314.        Opening 314 may be sized to
    accommodate a guidewire or a larger gauge hollow wire. Sheet 310 is disposed on a plurality
    of struts 316.                Struts 316 are connected at one distal portion to inner mandrel 306 and at
    another proximal portion to outer mandrel 308. Axial bore 318 passes through applicator 300
25  and, as depicted, may be coaxial with opening 314. As shown in Figures 6C-6D, the relative
    movement of inner mandrel 306 and outer mandrel 308 moves struts 316 from a storage
    position to a deployed position, arrow D, wherein the struts are moved radially outwards,
    arrow D' .
                 Figure 6E depicts balloon 320 that has been inflated via guidewire, larger gauge
30  hollow wire, or catheter 322 using means known to artisans to place balloon 320 across
    vascular puncture 324 in track 326. Applicator 300 is passed over wire 322 into track 326,
    inside catheter 302, Figure 6F. Catheter 302 is positioned proximate balloon 320, and moved
    upwardly as at arrows G in Figure 6G, to expose plug 304. Outer mandrel 308 is moved
    downwardly as at arrow G'                     relative to inner mandrel 306 to force struts 316 radially
                                                                 22
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    outwards, as at arrows G' ' . Sheet 310 and coatin012 are forced against the surrounding
    tissues and held for a predetermined time, e.g., 10 to 200 seconds (artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated).
    Track 326 may be thereby deformed as compression is applied. At Figure 6H, the struts 316
 5  are moved from the deployed position to the storage position by relative movement of the
    mandrels. Plug 304 remains in place. The applicator is optionally rotated to help release the
    struts, e.g., from 45 to 360 degrees (1 turn) or several turns (artisans will immediately
    appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated).
    At this juncture, the applicator and balloon and guidewire may be removed.
 0               A further optional step is to move catheter 302 downwardly, as at arrow I in Figure 61,
    to compress and/or hold plug 304 in place while balloon and/or guidewire and/or applicator
    are removed, as at arrow I' . Figure 6J depicts andher optional step, wherein materials are
    introduced via axial bore 318 after the balloon and hollow wire are removed. In this step, one
    or more matrix-forming precursors are introduced through the applicator into a space
 5  proximal the plug and in the track. Precursors as described herein may be used, and may be
    introduced in a solution. The plug prevents entry of the precursors into the blood vessel. The
    catheter and applicator may be positioned as depicted or otherwise (or altogether removed, in
    the case of catheter 302). Figure 6K depicts the track after this optional step, with matrix 330
    in place. The matrix may be a matrix as described herein, e.g., covalently crosslinked and/or
 '0 a hydrogel. The matrix may be positioned through all or a portion of the track, e.g., the most
    distal half, substantially throughout, or in the proximal half. The matrix may be created in
    situ from one or more precursors.
                 In the context of vascular closure, the term proximal means close to the user that is
    deploying the device, and distal means relatively farther away and closer to the blood vessel.
25  Radially outwards means a movement from a center of the track towards the track periphery,
    as in an axial umbrella opening-up to encounter the lumen of the track. Downwards means
    towards the blood vessel and upwards means away from the blood vessel.
                 The plug may thus be a sheet with a full or partial coating on one side or both sides
    (and/or on the edges of the sheet). The coating may be in a pattern. The coating may be
30  made of one or more precursors set forth herein. The sheet may be made of a material as
    described herein, and includes biodegradable and non-degradable materials.
                 The applicator may employ other mechanisms to deploy the sheet or other plug shape.
    Further, various occlusive devices and deployment systems may be used to tamponade a
    puncture, with the balloons herein being described as one type of occlusion member for
                                                        23
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    exemplary purposes. Alternatives include pledgets or temporary plugs, e.g, as a in U.S. Pub.
    Nos. 2006/0100664 or 2006/0034930, which are hereby incorporated by reference herein for
    all purposes to the extent they do not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.    Artisans
    reading this application in its entirety will appreciate the broad applicability of the coated
 5  materials for use in a variety of puncture closure systems.
                 The biomaterials for the plug, the sheet, or other matrix materials, may be provided
    with a shape suited to the particular application.        Such shapes include, for example, rods,
    cylinders (hollow rods), teardrop-shapes, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a twisted sheet, or a
    braided sheet. One shape is a planar material (square, rectangle, oval, or other) that is rolled
  0 up. The rolling can contribute mechanical properties such as uncurling to force the material
    against a track.
                 For instance, an embodiment is a rod of lyophilized hydrogel with a circular or oval
    cross-section, which after coating or dusting with a reactive hydrogel coating, may be inserted
    into vascular tracks for closure. A solid rod does not need to uncurl, resulting in improved
 5  application consistency. Alternatively, lyophilized hydrogels can be made in a planar shape,
    rolled, and placed within a sheath and introduced percutaneously. The coating may be on
    only the exterior or a portion of the rolled-up shape or the planar shape may receive a
    continuous or discontinuous coating before rolling. Upon deployment, the hydrogel coating
    dissolves and forms a reactive thin film that can help adhere the lyophilized hydrogels over
 '0 and around the access site.
                 The adherence, strength and swelling of the lyophilized hydrogel biomaterial substrate
    can be controlled by the amount, pattern and type of the hydrogel coating. Adhesives used in
    vascular access tracks have a significant mechanical advantage relative to other bioadhesive
    uses.         For example, sealants used to seal blood vessel anastomoses in open surgical
25  procedures depend heavily on both tissue adherence to the adventitia adjacent to the
    anastomosis, and on the cohesive strength of the adhesive itself. This cohesive strength of
    such materials is an important factor, even though the adhesive may be only 1-2 mm thick.
    One mechanical advantage is that the walls of the track provide a large surface area for
    adherence, and the resulting plug can be provided that has a high cohesive strength due to its
30  greater thickness. Thus, this increased surface for adherence and longer path length allow
    these vascular access closure adhesives to function more as adherent plugs than as patches,
    allowing them to withstand higher pressures.
                 Another use of a coated material is a swab applicator for sealing a track. Coatings of
    precursors may be located on biomaterials delivered into a puncture tract or placed on
                                                       24
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    applicators to wipe them onto the tissue tract lumen.         One embodiment for preparing the
    precursors is a lyophilization from a frozen liquid. Figure 7 depicts swab applicator 380 with
    rod 382, swab 384, and coating 386. The coating may be a coating as described herein, e.g., a
    coating comprising one or more precursors in a dry state that form a matrix upon exposure to
 5  a physiological fluid. Moreover, the coating may be supplemented with coagulation factors,
    e.g., salts, calcium salts, metal salts, thrombin, collagen, fibrin(ogen), or blood clotting factors
    that participate in the intrinsic or extrinsic blood clotting cascade.      The swab 384 may be
    provided with a diameter suited to percutaneous track passage, with a maximum gauge of
    about 1 to about 6 mm; artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values
 0  within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g., from about 1 to about 3, from about
    1 to about 4, or from about 2 to about 3 mm, or less than about 5 mm or less than about 3
    mm. The maximum width, also referred to somewhat loosely as a maximum diameter, is the
    maximum length that a track is to be distended.           The term "gauge" refers to the smallest
    diameter circular opening that a device can pass through. The same ranges and/or values may
 5  be expressed in terms of maximum circumference by using the formula circumference            = 29,
    with R being from about 1 to about 3 mm. As depicted, the coating partially covers the swab
    but may alternatively cover all of it. Moreover, the shape of the swab may be tear-shaped,
    round, ellipsoidal, or other shapes. The rod may be plastic, metal, wood, or other material
    with a stiffness and strength suited to the swabbing use.
 .0              The swab may be used in any track, be it from biopsy of a tissue or organ or a result of
    percutaneous vascular access. The swab may be used by itself, in combination with manual
    tamponade, or in combination with a plug. The latter use is depicted in Figure 8. At Figure
    8A, a blood vessel 400 with a puncture 402 has been plugged with a plug 404 placed in track
    407. Blood 408 has seeped from the walls of track 406 into the track and onto the skin. As
25  shown in Figure 8B, a user moves swab applicator 380 through track 407 to brush coating
    386 onto the walls of the track, with movement as at arrow B.             As shown in Figure 8C,
    mechanical tamponade 420, e.g., manual pressure or pressure mediated by a device or
    adhesive, compresses track 407, with coating 386 precursors reacting to form a matrix that
    contributes to closure. After a predetermined time (e.g., 30 seconds to 10 minutes; artisans
30  will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges
    are contemplated), the pressure is removed, with track seepage being stopped, as at Figure
    8D.
                 Bleeding from the vessel track could thus be controlled with the use of a precursor
    coated applicator that is introduced into the track and moved in and out, or spun around,
                                                      25
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    allowing the coating to dissolve and coat the track tissues. A coated enlargement on the distal
    end could be used to both clear blood from the track and to ensure intimate contact between
    the dissolved precursors and the tissue as the rod is advanced in and out. A brief external
    compression applied when the swab is pulled from the track would allow the track to be glued
 5  closed as the hydrogel polymerizes. Additionally, this compression may remove precursors at
    the skin level, eliminating the possibility of having a continuous length of gel from the skin to
    the vascular closure device. With the track glued shut, bleeding from the track tissue would
    be controlled, and would not be allowed to reach the skin surface. A degradable biomaterial
    could absorb within hours or 1-30 days of application (artisans will immediately appreciate
 0  that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated, e.g, 1 to 5
    days), as longer persistence would not be required.
                 Figure 9 depicts device 450 for applying a mechanical pressure to skin. Sheet 452
    with coating 454 is applied to a patient' s skin, wth base 456 being secured thereupon with
    strap 458 having an adjustable feature, as in holes 460 that receive knob 462. Alternatively,
 5  buckles, snaps, or other adjustment means may be used. After a predetermined time, e.g., 10
    seconds to 10 minutes, the backing is removed.            The sheet may be biodegradable or
    removable. Release agents may be placed between the sheet and coating to facilitate removal.
                 Coatings and materials as set forth herein may be used.      The coating provides
    adherence to a tissue. For instance, a puncture track on a wrist or for brachial access, or other
 '0 locations may have a short track that is not well suited to receiving an implant into the track.
    For this or other applications, the backing material receives a coating of precursors that react
    with fluid from the tissue to form an adhesive hydrogel. The backing is left on until the
    healing process is complete or may be removed after adhesion is established. A biomaterial
    may be placed between the backing and the coating to provide further structure. Release
25  agents may be included as needed to assist removal of the backing. The backing material
    and/or biomaterial may have, e.g., a planar shape, for instance, a rectangular, square, circular,
    or oval sheet. The base for applying a compressive force is optional. The base spreads a
    compressive force through the base and backing to compress an adhesive coating against a
    tissue surface.
30               Alternatively, a powdered mix may be applied into the track or tissue site before
    introduction of a biomaterial. For instance, a powder may be drawn up within a sheath below
    a position occupied by a lyophilized hydrogel biomaterial within the sheath. When the
    lyophilized hydrogel is ejected into the access site, the dry precursors are also ejected and
    begin dissolving and reacting. Alternately, a biomaterial may be dusted with such powders.
                                                     26
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 Figure 10 depicts an embodiment that exemplifies introducing precursors into a track
    in combination with a plug, and optionally in the same applicator as the plug. Applicator 500
    has sheath 502 and push rod 504. Sheath 502 has handles 506 and distal tip 508. Push rod
    504 has handles 510 and optionally removable stop 512. A permanent stop may alternatively
 5  be used, for example, an enlarged diameter portion of the push rod that provides resistance
    without preventing continued movement. Sheath 502, Figure 10B, is preloaded with plug 516
    and precursor or precursors 518. A non-reactive agent 520, e.g., a release agent, may further
    be preloaded at the distal end portion 522.                The non-reactive agent 520 provides for
    absorption or repulsion of fluids prior to release of precursors 518. The non-reactive agent
  0 does not form a matrix material but is optionally a coagulation enhancing material as already
    described.             Distal tip 508 and at least an accompanying portion of sheath 502 is sized for
    track entry (e.g., small, or medium, or large bore), and is introduced into track 524.
                 At Figure 10C, the push rod 504 is pushed until stopped by stop 512, expelling
    precursors 518 and any accompanying materials. As depicted, the precursors are expelled in
 5  the proximal half of the track, but may be expelled at other positions, e.g., the proximal (skin
    side) opening of the track, the track midpoint, or the distal half or distal tip of the track. As
    shown in Figure 10C, sheath 502 is further pushed downwardly, arrow D, and precursors 518
    are distributed on the walls of the track. Plug 516 is expelled, Figure 10E, with removable
    stop having been removed, and sheath 502 being drawn upwardly as at arrows E, and
 '0 applicator 500 is removed. Various tamponading or swabbing steps may further optionally be
    employed.
                 Various embodiments have been described herein and may be directed to sealing
    medium or large bore punctures although the same embodiments could also be used to seal
    smaller punctures if sized accordingly.              One of the motifs is to use a coating of matrix
25  precursors on, or with, an acceptably shaped article made from a biomaterial that can be
    introduced into the track. The dry precursors, which are present either as a coating, or co
    located in the percutaneous closure system, dissolve when exposed to liquids at the site
    needing closure, and polymerize over a period of time, thus securing with adherence the plug
    to the site needing closure and effecting such closure. The entire materials and mechanism
30  can be prepared with systems and devices compatible with percutaneous use. Various
    precursors and biomaterials are described herein for the same.               Another motif is that a
    biomaterial for the large (or other) bore puncture is coated on a proximal end. An applicator
    is placed in the track and the biomaterial is at least partially forced into the track to reveal at
    least part of a coating on the material. The material is optionally compressed therein by a
                                                            27
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    member of the applicator, e.g., a push-rod. The proximal end adheres to the tissue track. The
    biomaterial may be expelled from an applicator all at once or partially exposed in stages, e.g.,
    so that the proximal end with the adhesive is not exposed until immediately prior to adhesion.
                 Other embodiments provide for a coating at the distal end of a biomaterial placed into
 5  a track. An applicator is introduced into the track and manipulated to place at least a part of
    the distal portion into the track, e.g., by a push rod that forces the material out of a sheath
    containing the material. The revealed portion' s cating adheres to the tissue and the sheath is
    further withdrawn. The material is optionally compressed. The adhesive coating will thus
    secure the hydrogel at the site of the closure to better seal such larger (or other sized)
 0  punctures and/or tracks.
                 In the case of arteriotomy, a useful area for sealing is near an arteriotomy in a distal
    portion of the track. The desiccation of track blood by water uptake into the coating and
    optionally the underlying biomaterial would tend to leave high viscosity layer of blood
    between the biomaterial/coating and the tissue to further contribute to adhesivity.
 5               In addition to biomaterials and/or coatings being used to seal a puncture or other
    iatropic site, lyophilized hydrogels with or without coatings can be used in the same track for
    needle track (or other puncture device track) hemostasis, and to act as a space filler
    supporting the biomaterials against vascular pressure. In one embodiment, a first biomaterial
    is placed in a distal portion of the track and a second device (same or different biomaterial) is
 '0 placed in a proximal portion of the track.
                 Alternatively or additionally, a skin closure (suture, clip, glue, tape) may be placed at
    the skin to help to hold the biomaterials in place, while also reducing the potential of blood
    pressure pushing the biomaterials from the vascular track. Such closures may generally be
    used, e.g., for one or more biomaterials placed into a track, with the biomaterial(s) being
25  coated or uncoated.
                 For instance, in addition to lyophilized hydrogel with a coating being used to seal the
    puncture or other iatropic site, lyophilized hydrogels without coating can be used in the same
    track for needle track hemostasis, and to act as a space filler supporting the sealed lyophilized
    hydrogels against vascular pressure. The skin closure (suture, clip, glue, tape) may be used
30  help to hold the lyophilized hydrogel biomaterial in place, while also reducing the potential of
    blood pressure pushing the lyophilized hydrogel(s) from the vascular track.
                 Some embodiments do not fill the track but instead are placed topically over the track,
    e.g., as in a brachial access site. The backing with coating and/or biomaterial embodiments
    described herein may be used for this application. Some of the coating and/or biomaterial
                                                         28
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    may be forced into a proximal portion of the track, with the same being biodegradable and
    providing a sealing role.
                 The application of coatings consisting of dry PEG precursors to sheets of backing
    materials has previously been disclosed. However, the use of these coatings were envisioned
 5  for open surgical situations, and not for interventional purposes.                 Different design
    requirements exist between these coated open surgical and coated interventional devices so
    that different materials must be chosen and combined. For example, in open surgery, it is
    desirable that the backing materials be non-swelling, so as to not lose strength and not distort
    underlying tissues.               In contrast, swelling or expanding backing materials may be
  0 advantageous in interventional applications.
                 In contrast to other adhesive systems that require using a solution of materials, the
    coating-based approaches described herein could be processed to provide better shelf life
    stability by storage in an oxygen and moisture free environment (e.g., foil pouch). Also,
    placing a coated device would generally be easier than placing a device that further requires
 5  combination with an adhesive at the same time, i.e., the coatings are easier to use. As no
    reconstitution in solvent is required, these devices should be immediately ready to use once
    removed from their packaging.
                   Different coating strategies can be used for different applications.      Continuous
    coating on one side can result in adherence to tissue, while minimizing or eliminating
 '0 adherence from the other. Coating on both sides (top) can result in uniform adherence on
    both surfaces, with less substrate absorption and swelling. In contrast, coating with dots or
    lines on one or both sides (middle and bottom), or on the edges, could allow for directional
    tissue adherence while still allowing for fluid absorption and substrate swelling.
                   Various embodiments with various features have been disclosed by way of example
25  to illustrate the invention.           The features of the various embodiments may be mixed-and
    matched to provide further combinations and subcombinations as guided by the need to make
    functional embodiments. The headings and subheadings are merely for convenient reference
    and are not limitations as to disclosure.
                   An apparatus for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
30  an applicator and a plug, with the applicator comprising a distal sheath portion sized for
    placement in the track and having a distal opening and a lumen, and a pusher received by the
    lumen for pushing the plug out of the lumen through the sheath distal opening, with the plug
    being sized for placement in the track and comprising a coated portion with a substantially
    dry coating, wherein the coating comprises at least one precursor that dissolves in
                                                           29
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    physiological fluid after placement in the track and undergoes a covalent bonding reaction to
    form a matrix material that adheres the plug to the track and/or blood vessel, and an uncoated
    portion that exposes a porous portion of the plug to blood in the track, with the porous portion
    at least partially dehydrating the blood in the track.
 5               A method for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
    percutaneously introducing a porous plug into the track through an applicator having a lumen
    terminating in a distal opening, the plug comprising a dry coating on a distal portion of the
    plug and being free of the coating on a proximal portion of the plug, wherein the coating
    comprises at least a first precursor that dissolves in physiological fluid after placement in the
  0 track and undergoes a covalent bonding reaction to form a matrix material that adheres the
    plug to tissue of the track and/or blood vessel, with the coating promoting adhesion at or near
    the puncture and the uncoated portion of the plug at least partially dehydrating blood in the
    track to reduce flow of blood from the lumen of the track into the track.
                 An apparatus for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
 5  an applicator, a plug, and at least a first precursor, with the applicator comprising a distal
    portion sized for placement in the track and having a distal opening and a lumen, and a pusher
    at least partially received in the lumen for pushing the plug out of the lumen through the distal
    opening, with the plug being sized for placement in the track and disposed within the lumen,
    and          with the precursor being disposed in the lumen at a position distal to the plug for
 '0 release into the track prior to expulsion of the plug from the lumen, wherein      the  precursor
    dissolves in physiological fluid after placement in the track and forms a matrix material.
                 A method for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
    placing a distal portion of an applicator into the track, expelling a reactive precursor from the
    applicator into at least a portion of the track, and subsequently expelling a plug into the track,
25  wherein the precursor forms a matrix material adhesive to the track lumen and substantially
    stops flow of blood from walls of the track into the track lumen.
                 An apparatus for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
    an applicator, a plug, and at least a first precursor, with the applicator comprising a distal
    portion sized for placement in the track and having a distal opening and a lumen, and a pusher
30  at least partially received in the lumen for pushing the plug out of the lumen through the distal
    opening, with the plug being sized for placement in the track and disposed within the lumen,
    and with the precursor being disposed in the lumen at a position distal to the plug for release
    into the track prior to expulsion of the plug from the lumen, wherein the precursor dissolves
    in physiological fluid after placement in the track and forms a matrix material.
                                                       30
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

                 A method for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
    placing a distal portion of an applicator into the track, expelling a reactive precursor from the
    applicator into at least a portion of the track, and subsequently expelling a plug into the track,
    wherein the precursor forms a matrix material adhesive to the track lumen and substantially
 5  stops flow of blood from walls of the track into the track lumen.
                 A handheld applicator comprising a proximal portion graspable by a user and a distal
    portion comprising a swab coated with at least a first precursor that, in the presence of a
    physiological fluid, reacts to form a matrix, with the coated swab having a maximum gauge
    of no more than about 5 mm.
 0               A method of preventing blood flow in a tissue track comprising wiping the track walls
    with a swab coated with a matrix precursor that dissolves in physiological fluid in the track
    and forms a matrix on walls of the track for stopping the blood flow, with the coated swab
    having a maximum gauge of no more than about 5 mm.
                 An applicator comprising a sheet disposed on a radially expandable member, with the
 5  sheet being a biodegradable biomaterial coated with one or more precursors that form a tissue
    adherent matrix upon exposure to a physiological fluid to adhere the sheet to the tissue, with
    the radially expandable member being operable to radially expand the sheet and thereafter be
    completely separated from the sheet, wherein the sheet further comprises an opening coaxial
    with a central axial bore of the applicator, with the applicator having a maximum gauge of no
 '0 more than about 1 or 3 or 5 mm.
                 A method of sealing a percutaneous vascular access site comprising passing an
    occlusion device through a track that leads to the site and occluding a puncture in a blood
    vessel at the site, with the occlusion device being connected to an elongate member that
    passes through the track, passing an applicator over the elongate member, with the applicator
25  comprising a sheet disposed on a radially expandable member, with the sheet being a
    biodegradable biomaterial coated with one or more precursors that form a tissue adherent
    matrix upon exposure to a physiological fluid, radially expanding the radially expandable
    member to thereby radially expand the sheet and forcing the coating against a tissue, with the
    coating dissolving to form a matrix adherent to the tissue, separating the applicator from the
30  sheet, and withdrawing the applicator, elongate member, and occlusion device from the site.
                 The method, apparatus, or system as in the foregoing, provided as a kit. The kit may
    be provided in a single sterile package. Precursors and make-up water and/or buffers may be
    included.
                                                      31
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

    Example 1
                 Melted            4a2OkSG     (four-armed   20,000  MW     succinimidyl   glutarate-terminated
    polyethylene glycol polymer) and 8a20k amine (eight-armed 20,000 MW amine-terminated
    polyethylene glycol polymer) (2:1 ratio) were combined and brought to a temperature of
 5  50'C.         The experimenters briefly wiped both sides of a lyophilized PEG-based hydrogel
    (sheet rolled end-to-end) onto a hot plate containing the melted polymer. This was tried with
    and without borate buffer coating, to raise the reaction pH and accelerate polymerization, on
    the lyophilized hydrogel prior to polymer application.
                 Once cooled, the samples were hydrated with physiological saline and squeezed
 0  between two fingers. The resulting adherence to the fingers was strong; in fact, when pulled
    apart, the samples failed cohesively, and not at the adhesive-skin interface.
    Example 2
                 A lyophilized PEG-based hydrogel as used in a MYNX system was obtained in a flat
 5  unrolled state. The sheet was rolled and placed in the lumen of a 11 Fr sheath that was about
    6 inches long. A second sheet of the same material was placed on a melt of PEG precursors
    at a temperature of about 75'C.                      The melt was a 1:1 ratio of methylene blue and
    4a1OCM:8a20k amine (a 4-armed 1OkDa polyethylene glycol precursor terminated with
    carboxymethyl hydroxybutyric acid precursor and a second precursor that is an 8 armed 20
 '0 kDa multifunctional PEG terminated with amines). The sheet was removed and allowed to
    cool, at which point it was coated on one side and was not tacky. The sheet would tend to
    curl or shrink if exposed to too high of a temperature.                 The coating tended to form cracks
    when thick but was free of cracks in thinner coatings. The coated sheet was rolled and placed
    into the sheath. Figure 11 depicts this arrangement.                  Sheath 600 contains uncoated rolled
25  sheet 602 and adjacent rolled and coated sheet 604, with a small gap 606 at the distal end 608
    of the sheath, which was open.
                 A test apparatus was constructed with a three-way valve that connected a digital
    pressure gauge, a syringe of about 10 ml volume having a buffer solution, and a 1-ml plastic
    syringe in a vertical, upright position with the plunger removed. The valve was turned to a
30  first position so that the 1-ml syringe was isolated. The lower portion of the 1 -ml syringe was
    filled with physiological buffer solution. The sheath was introduced into the 1-ml syringe and
    a pusher rod was used to push the plugs out of the sheath and into the bottom of the syringe.
    The sheath and pusher rod were used to force the sheets down and were held in place for a
    about a minute.                   The precursor reacted in the buffer and formed an adhesive matrix that
                                                                32
    9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

   adhered both sheets to the bottom of the syringe.                The sheath and the pusher rod were
   removed. The three-way valve was moved to a position that allowed communication between
   the 1-ml syringe, the 10-ml syringe, and the pressure gauge which were in communication
   with each other. The 10-ml syringe was used to force fluid through the valve while the
5  pressure gauge was observed.             Pressures in excess of 1000 Torr were observed with no
   leaking or movement of the sheets. The test was repeated several times with different sheets.
   The precursors reacted to form both rolled sheets into a single cohesive mass. The most
   distal portion of the distal sheet assumed the shape of the syringe distal end, a male Luer
   Lock shape, showing compressibility and moldability.
0               As is evident, other embodiments of this exemplary system may be made using the
   precursors and materials and devices set forth herein.
                It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
5               In the claims which follow and in the preceding description, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
   variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify
   the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the apparatus.
.0
                                                          33
   9843935_1 (GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

IT IS CLAIMED:
1.          An apparatus for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
            an applicator and a plug,
            with the applicator comprising a distal sheath portion sized for placement in the track
and having a distal opening and a lumen, and a pusher received by the lumen for pushing the
plug out of the lumen through the sheath distal opening,
            with the plug being sized for placement in the track and comprising
                           a coated portion with a substantially dry coating, wherein the coating
comprises at least one precursor that dissolves in physiological fluid after placement in the
track and undergoes a covalent bonding reaction to form a matrix material that adheres the
plug to the track and/or blood vessel, and
                           an uncoated portion that exposes a porous portion of the plug to blood in the
track, with the porous portion at least partially dehydrating the blood in the track.
2.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a proximal portion of the plug comprises the
uncoated portion of the plug and a distal portion of the plug comprises the coated portion of
the plug.
3.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the coating comprises a plurality of discrete blebs or
discrete stripes separated by the uncoated portion.
4.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the uncoated portion comprises a plurality of
discontinuous subportions that are separated from each other by the coating.
5.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the coated portion covers no more than about 60%
of the plug surface area.
6.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the puncture is a vascular access site.
7.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first precursor comprises electrophilic functional
groups and further comprising a second precursor that comprises nucleophilic functional
groups, wherein both of the precursors are polymers.
                                                        34
9843935_1(GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

8.          The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug comprises a rod, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a
twisted sheet, or a braided sheet.
9.          The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a release material disposed on at least a
portion of the coating.
10.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the adherence of the coating to the tissue exceeds
the strength of the plug, as testable by biomaterial failing before disadhering from the tissue.
11.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug is readily compressible by manual
tamponade.
12.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug further comprises an axial lumen.
13.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug comprises a dehydrated hydrogel.
14.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug comprises a polygalactide matrix.
15.         A method for treatment of an iatropic track and blood vessel puncture comprising
percutaneously introducing a porous plug into the track through an applicator having a lumen
terminating in a distal opening, the plug comprising a dry coating on a distal portion of the
plug and being free of the coating on a proximal portion of the plug, wherein the coating
comprises at least a first precursor that dissolves in physiological fluid after placement in the
track and undergoes a covalent bonding reaction to form a matrix material that adheres the
plug to tissue of the track and/or blood vessel, with the coating promoting adhesion at or near
the puncture and the uncoated portion of the plug at least partially dehydrating blood in the
track to reduce flow of blood from the lumen of the track into the track.
16.         The method of claim 15 wherein the first precursor comprises electrophilic functional
groups and further comprising a second precursor that comprises nucleophilic functional
groups, wherein both of the precursors are polymers.
                                                  35
9843935_1(GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

17.         The method of claim 16 wherein the coating is formed by applying the precursors in a
melted state to the plug or by applying the precursors in a liquid solution to the plug and
evaporating solvent from the solution.
18.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the precursor comprises electrophilic functional
groups and a second precursor comprises nucleophilic functional groups, wherein both of the
precursors are polymers.
19.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug comprises a rod, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a
twisted sheet, or a braided sheet.
20.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the precursor comprises electrophilic functional
groups and further comprising a second precursor that comprises nucleophilic functional
groups, wherein both of the precursors are polymers.
21.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug comprises a rod, a tube, a rolled-up sheet, a
twisted sheet, or a braided sheet.
                                                 36
9843935_1(GHMatters) P88693.AU.2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
