                                                 25
                                           ABSTRACT
    A height-adjustment apparatus 10 for a platform 30 adapted to support a
     mattress in a cot 20. The platform is adapted to be supported at two or more
  5 spaced support zones 11,12. The apparatus comprises: at least two platform
    supports 45,46 adapted to support the platform at or along the two or more
    spaced support zones in a substantially level orientation; a first beam 50
     pivotably connected at its upper end 13 to the platform; a second beam 51
     hingedly connected to the first beam; a lower end 14 of the first beam mounted to
 10 a first travelling hinge 46A at a first stationary base 15 in or on the cot; a lower
    end 16 of the second beam hingedly mounted to a second stationary base 45A in
    or on the cot; an upper end 17 of the second beam 51 mounted to a second
    travelling hinge 46 at a second one of the at least two platform supports; and a
    height-adjustment mechanism 70 variable in length and directly or indirectly
 15 adapted to bear on the upper end of the second beam to controllably raise and
    lower the platform. The hinged connection 18 between the first and second
    beams being intermediate the length of each beam, wherein: the first and second
    travelling hinges 46,46A each include a respective first and second defined track
    47,48 in which the lower end of the first beam and the upper end of the second
20  beam are adapted to reciprocally travel, the length of the respective tracks
    limiting the extent of upward and downward travel of the platform. The cot further
    comprises a cover or screen 35 to obscure the height adjustment mechanism
    from view and to assist in obstructing access by children to the height adjustment
    mechanism.
25
    FIG. 1

                 7 / 10
                          46
                                  10
       00
   0                          0 0
     71   46A 31       32
                           60
70
                 Figure 7

                                               1
                          INFANT COT AND MODULE THEREFOR
   FIELD OF INVENTION
           The present invention relates to a cot and to a cot accessory. More
 5 particularly, this invention relates to a height adjustable mattress platform and
   associated mechanism for an infant cot.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           In the prior art, elevation systems have been described that are aimed at
   raising a cot mattress. For instance, United States Patent No. 7827631
10 (Holman), United States Application No. US20120297537 Al (Gutierrez), and
   United States Application No. 20120167299 Al (Tarquinio) disclose such
   elevation systems.
           An object of the present invention is to overcome or at least ameliorate
   one or more of the problems in the prior art, or to at least provide an improved
15 alternative.
           Any discussion of prior art above and herein, either singly or in
   combination, is not to be construed as an admission of the state of common
   general knowledge of the skilled addressee.
           The references herein to and descriptions of prior proposals or products
20 are not intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions
   of common general knowledge in the art. In particular, the prior art discussion
   herein does not relate to what is commonly or well known by the person skilled in
   the art, but assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the present
   invention of which the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but one part.
25 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   In one aspect of the invention, there is provided:
   a height-adjustment apparatus for a platform adapted to support a mattress in a
   cot, the platform adapted to be supported at two or more spaced support zones,
   the apparatus comprising:

                                              2
            at least two platform supports adapted to support the platform at or along
   the two or more spaced support zones in a substantially level orientation or a
   predetermined shallow inclination;
           a first beam pivotably connected at its upper end to the platform or to a
 5 first one of the at least two platform supports;
           a second beam hingedly connected to the first beam;
           a lower end of the first beam mounted to a first travelling hinge at a first
   stationary base in or on the cot;
           a lower end of the second beam hingedly mounted to a second stationary
10 base in or on the cot;
           an upper end of the second beam mounted to a second travelling hinge at
   a second one of the at least two platform supports; and
           a height-adjustment mechanism variable in length and directly or indirectly
   adapted to bear on the upper end of the second beam to controllably raise and
15 lower the platform,
           the hinged connection between the first and second beams being
   intermediate the length of each beam,
           wherein:
           the first and second travelling hinges each include a respective first and
20 second defined track in which the lower end of the first beam and the upper end
   of the second beam are adapted to reciprocally travel, the length of the
   respective tracks limiting the extent of upward and downward travel of the
   platform; and
           the cot further comprises a cover to obscure the height adjustment
25 mechanism from view and to assist in obstructing access by children to the
   height adjustment mechanism.
   COT

                                               3
           The cot envisaged as falling within the scope of the invention includes a
   cot for infants. The infant cot comprises one or more walls defining an inner cot
   space. The inner face(s) of the wall(s) is/are advantageously sheer. The inner
   face(s) is/are preferably vertically aligned. The inner faces preferably number
 5 four. The space that the inner faces define is preferably a rectangular block.
   PLATFORM
           The platform may be circular, ovular, or polygonal including rectangular
   including square. Preferably the platform is rectangular in plan, and in side and
   end elevatory, views, and adapted to conform to the shape of a standard infant
10 mattress. The platform may include a frame. The platform frame may include a
   peripheral frame and/or an internal frame. The platform may include a solid panel
   on which a mattress may be directly placed. The platform may comprise parallel
   or thatched slats supported by the frame. The platform may include planar sheet
   of substantially rigid material, such as timber, wood fibre or polymeric board,
15 laminate or the like.
           The platform is supported by the platform supports at at least two points to
   provide a stable surface that is maintained at a consistent horizontal or inclined
   orientation in which the plane in one height-adjusted position remains in a plane
   parallel to any other position it may assume throughout the extent of its travel.
20 PLATFORM SUPPORTS
           The first support of the at least two platform supports preferably comprises
   a first hinged bracket. The first hinged bracket may be attached to an underside
   of the platform. The platform may, alternatively, rest on the first support.
           The first support may be one of a first pair of supports of the at least two
25 supports. The first pair of supports may be aligned so that they are substantially
   equi-spaced from an end or edge of the platform. The first pair of supports may
   include a corresponding first pair of hinged brackets. The first pair of hinged
   brackets may be substantially coaxially aligned.

                                             4
           The second support may comprise a second travelling hinge bracket. The
   second support may present a broad upper surface whereby to support the
   platform at a second support zone. The second support may include a second
   pair of supports spaced from each other. The second pair of supports may be
 5 aligned such that their respective hinge connections are substantially coaxial.
           The at least two supports preferably number at least four supports. The
   four supports preferably comprise the first and second pairs of supports. The
   spacing or distance between the first support and the second support varies as
   the height adjustment mechanism rises or falls.
10 FIRST AND SECOND BEAMS
           The first and second beams may each be elongate and made of a rigid
   material and/or construction. The first and second beams may each or severally
   be bent or curved, but are both preferably linear.
           The first and second beams may each or severally comprise a pair of rigid
15 straps spaced from each other and separated by a central elongate slot or gap. A
   central hinge may be located intermediate their respective lengths. The central
   hinged may interrupt the central gap or slot whereby the spaced straps are joined
   about the central hinge and at their respective ends.
           The first and second beams may each be substantially flat in shape
20 whereby they each move in respective first and second vertical planes.
           The first and second beams may each comprise a respective first and
   second pair of beams laterally spaced from each other. A left side set of first and
   second beams may form a left hand side scissor pair and right side set of first
   and second beams may form a right hand side scissor pair of beams.
25 TRAVELLING HINGE
           The first and second tracks of the travelling hinges may each include a
   respective first and second defined slot in which the lower end of the first beam
   and the upper end of the second beam are adapted to reciprocally travel.

                                               5
           Alternatively, the lower end of the first beam and the upper end of the
   second beam include rollers or runners that are adapted to reciprocally travel in
   the corresponding track
   HEIGHT-ADJUSTMENT MECHANISM
 5         The height-adjustment mechanism may comprise a solenoid, a screw or a
   ram. Preferably, the height adjustable mechanism includes an activation
   mechanism, such as an actuator.
           The actuator may be hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, thermal, magnetic
   and mechanical, and is preferably electrical. The actuator may operate through a
10 non-linear path, but is preferably a linear. The actuator is preferably electrically
   powered. Preferably, the actuator comprises a mechanical device and includes a
   motor, one or more linear guides and a drive mechanism, such as an actuator
   arm. The actuator preferably converts electrical energy into linear displacement
   through mechanical transmission, electro-magnetism, or thermal expansion to
15 provide a straight line push/pull motion.
           The key specifications of the actuator include the intended application,
   drive type, motor type, the mounting configuration, as well as other physical
   dimensions and electrical characteristics that the person skilled in the art will be
   able to determine without unreasonable trial and experimentation. An electric
20 linear actuator is particularly preferred as it enables controlled movement to a
   particular position. The actuator is advantageous where linear positioning is
   needed, as in this case. The actuator may be driven by several means including
   ball or lead screws, belts, or voice coils, among others.
           The height-adjustment mechanism may be directly or indirectly adapted to
25 bear on the upper end of the second beam or the second travelling hinge bracket
   to controllably raise and lower the platform.
           The height-adjustment mechanism may be a portable mechanism. In use
   with the cot-mattress thereon, the height-adjustment mechanism may be able to
   raise the platform support means by a user's control to a selected raised height

                                                 6
   that facilitates the user lifting a baby off the cot-mattress when at the selected
   raised height.
           The portable mechanism, in said use, may also be able to lower the
   platform support means by the user's control to lower the cot-mattress to a level
 5 for enabling the infant to sleep on the cot-mattress in the cot at a safe position
   where the infant preferably cannot climb over the wall(s) and out of the cot.
           Subject to product safety standards and recommended design guidelines
   for infant products, the height adjustable mechanism may be in the form of a
   module that is portable and removable. In such a case, the user may be able to
10 place the module in the cot and be able to remove the module from the cot for
   placement in another cot. The height adjustment apparatus may therefore,
   subject to safety and design regulations, comprise a cot-mattress-raising-and
   lowering-module which is portable and removable such that the module is able to
   be placed in a first cot and removed for placement in a second baby-cot.
15         Preferably, the platform supports provide seating means that enable the
   portable mechanism to be seated securely in the cot.
           The height adjustable mechanism preferably comprises a scissor
   mechanism or X-shaped-like mechanism that, in said use, is able to raise and
   lower the mattress-support-means.
20         Preferably, the raised height of the platform support means, in use, has a
   maximum upper position.
   ELECTRICAL DEVICES
           The cot may include various electrical devices to equip the cot with
   surveillance or remote operation functionality.
25         The cot may include surveillance equipment. The surveillance equipment
   may include, a movement sensor, a camera and/or audio receiver. The
   surveillance equipment is preferably adapted to communicate with a remote
   station. The surveillance equipment may be adapted to communicate remotely by
   radio, a local area network, a private network, or a global computer network, such

                                             7
   as the internet. The surveillance equipment preferably includes a webcam. The
   surveillance equipment may communicate with a smart device or other computer
   device. For example, the surveillance equipment preferably includes a wireless
   camera adapted to communicate with a smart device via a mobile or global
 5 computer network, using an off the shelf camera and smart phone app.
          The surveillance equipment may be mounted to one end or side of the cot
   and be directed inwardly to receive and transmit visual feed of the view inside the
   cot.
           The height adjustment apparatus, in use, is preferably provided with a
10 user control means by which the user is able to activate the mechanism to control
   the raising and lowering of the height adjustment mechanism. The user control
   means may be a direct toggle switch control. The user control means may be
   communicatively-connected to the height adjustment means. The user control
   means may be wire-connected to the height adjustment means. The user control
15 means may be wirelessly connected to the height adjustment means. The user
   control means may be remotely connected to the height adjustment means by
   radio transmitter/receiver arrangement.
   COVER
           To obscure the height adjustment mechanism below the platform, a cover
20 is preferably provided. The cover advantageously obscures from external view
   the mechanism when the platform is raised. The cover may contract to obscure
   only the smaller area through which the mechanism may be viewed when the
   platform is lowered. The cover may be a curtain made of rigid or flexible
   material. Where the cover is flexible, the lower portion of the cover may pool or
25 collect when the platform is lowered. When the platform is raised, the flexible
    material may unfold to ensure that the view of the mechanism continues to be
   obscured, notwithstanding that it occupies a larger area (i.e. the distance
    between the platform edge and the base of the cot) when viewed from an end or
   side of the cot.

                                              8
           The cover may be collected on a number of reels extending along each of
   the sides and/or ends of the cot. The lower end of the cover may be adapted to
   be taken in or paid out from the reel, respectively, when the platform is lowered
   or raised. Preferably, the cover comprises a wooden screen. The screen may
 5 include a skirt depending downwardly from the platform and telescopically
   received in a lower region of the internal space of the cot. As the screen moves
   with the platform, in this preferred embodiment, at no time is the mechanism
   exposed to external view or digital or other access.
           The cover may be in the form of screen. The cover may be made of wood
10 based material, plastic or any solid panel material. The screen may include a
   veneer or cloth cover to make it more acceptable for human skin contact. The
   cover may be made of ply wood. The cover is preferably adapted to diminish the
   risk of finger jams or pinch points. The cover is preferably adapted to diminish
   endangerment to other children or adults from being injured by the mechanism
15 installed behind the cover.
           In many jurisdictions, access to the mechanism by children must be
   obstructed in order pass product safety standards. Moreover, the cover may be
   adapted to make the inventive device more aesthetically and visually appealing.
           The cover may be attached to the platform at its side and/or end edges.
20 The cover may comprise a pair of spaced sheets that depend downwardly from
   the side edges as a curtain or vertically hung panel. The cover panels preferably
   extend the full length of each side of the platform. The cover panels may have a
   linear lower edge. The cover panels may have a concave or curved lower edge in
   which the ends of the cover extend lower than a central lower edge of the cover.
25 The curve lower edge may be effective to obscure the lower portions of the
   beams at either end of the cot when the mechanism is raised, and also the higher
   central hinged portion where the beams intersect.
           The cover may be fastened to the edge of the platform by standard
   fasteners suitable for purpose. For example the fasteners may be screws.
30  DRAWINGS

                                               9
           In order that the present invention might be more fully understood,
   embodiments of the present invention will be described, by way of example only,
   with reference to the accompanying drawings. Possible and preferred features of
   the present features of the present invention will be described as examples only,
 5 however, it is to be understood that the features illustrated in and described with
   reference to the drawings are not to be construed as limiting on the scope of the
   invention. In the drawings:
           Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a first embodiment of the present
   invention, the embodiment being a module adapted to be used in one or more
10 baby-cots;
           Figure 2 shows a top view of the embodiment of Figure 1;
           Figure 3 shows a side view of the embodiment of Figure 1;
           Figure 4 shows an end-view of the embodiment of Figure 1;
           Figure 5 shows a perspective view of an example of a cot which is shown
15 before the embodiment of the module is placed in this cot;
           Figures 6A and 6B shows the same cot of Figure 5 with the embodiment
   of the module placed in the cot, where Figure 6A shows the module in a lowered
   position, while Figure 6B shows the module in a more raised position;
           Figure 7 is a cross-sectional view of the embodiment of Figure 1 when
20 placed in a cot. The cross-sectional view is shown of a plane that runs in the
   centre of the cot, thus showing a central cross-section of the piston-mechanism;
           Figure 8 is a schematic block diagram of the embodiment of Figure 1
   indicating that an electrical control circuit is used to control the operation of the
   hydraulic piston apparatus;
25         Figure 9 is a front perspective view of a cot according to a second
   embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 10 is a perspective view of a platform and side screen according to
   a third embodiment of the invention;

                                               10
            Figure 11 is a front perspective view of a cot made according to the third
   embodiment of the invention and incorporating a platform and side screen shown
    in a raised position; and
            Figure 12 is a front perspective view of the cot shown in Fig. 11.
 5          In the drawings, there is shown a height-adjustment apparatus 10 for a
   platform 30 is adapted to support a mattress in a cot 20. The platform is
   supported at two or more spaced support zones 11,12. The apparatus
   comprises: at least two platform supports 45,46 adapted to support the platform
   at or along the two or more spaced support zones in a substantially level
10 orientation; a first beam 50 pivotably connected at its upper end 13 to the
   platform; a second beam 51 hingedly connected to the first beam; a lower end 14
   of the first beam mounted to a first travelling hinge 46A at a first stationary base
    15 in or on the cot; a lower end 16 of the second beam hingedly mounted to a
   second stationary base 45A in or on the cot; an upper end 17 of the second
15 beam 51 mounted to a second travelling hinge 46 at a second one of the at least
   two platform supports; and a height-adjustment mechanism 70 variable in length
   and directly or indirectly adapted to bear on the upper end of the second beam to
   controllably raise and lower the platform. The hinged connection 18 between the
   first and second beams being intermediate the length of each beam, wherein: the
20 first and second travelling hinges 46,46A each include a respective first and
   second defined track 47,48 in which the lower end of the first beam and the
   upper end of the second beam are adapted to reciprocally travel, the length of
   the respective tracks limiting the extent of upward and downward travel of the
   platform. The cot further comprises a cover or screen 35 to obscure the height
25 adjustment mechanism from view and to assist in obstructing access by children
   to the height adjustment mechanism.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            Referring further to the drawings, Figure 1 shows a perspective view of an
   embodiment of a cot-mattress-raising-and-lowering-module accessory in the form
30 of portable level-adjustor 10. The level-adjustor 10 is adapted to be used in one

                                                 11
   or more baby-cots, and is also adapted to support a cot-mattress when in the
   baby-cot. characteristics of the level-adjustor 10.
            The portable level-adjustor 10 is shown in a top view in Figure 2, in a side
   view in Figure 3, and in an end-view in Figure 4.
 5          In the embodiment, the level-adjustor 10 is portable and removable so that
   the level-adjustor 10 can be placed in a first baby-cot, and later removed for use
   in other cots. In other words, the level-adjustor 10 can be removed from the first
   cot, and later re-used in one or more other cots, so that those other cots can
   utilise the functionality conferred to the cot when the level-adjustor 10 is in the
10 cot.
            The level-adjustor 10 may be portable and removable such that the level
   adjustor 10 is able to placed in a first baby-cot and removed for placement in a
   second baby-cot.
            Portability may be an advantage for embodiments of the invention where it
15 is desirable to optionally use the device 10 in many baby-cots that are originally
   constructed without a raisable mattress. The device 10 may therefore work
   differently to known raisable cots. Placement of the level-adjustor 10 in an
   ordinary baby-cot will add the functionality to the ordinary cot of being able to
   raise and lower the mattress. (In this specification, an ordinary cot is defined as
20 one where its mattress cannot be raised or lowered).
            The level-adjustor 10 is adapted to be used in a baby-cot that, in use, will
   have a cot-mattress. Figure 5 shows a perspective view of an example cot 20
   which is shown before the level-adjustor 10 is placed in the cot 20.
            The invention in its broadest aspect is not restricted to this particular cot
25 20 illustrated in Figure 5 since a feature of the embodiment is that the level
   adjustor 10 may be placed in, and removed from the first cot, so as to be re-used
   in other cots. Hence, in the embodiment, the level-adjustor 10 is portable to
   facilitate this ability for it to be used and potentially re-used in a number of other
   cots. A feature of an embodiment of the cot-mattress-raising-and-lowering-

                                              12
   module is that it may be placed in other cots, in other words, to transform an
   ordinary cot into one where the mattress level can be raised and lowered at the
   control of the adult user.
           Figures 6A and 6B show the same cot with the level-adjustor 10 placed in
 5 the cot 20. In these diagrams, Figure 6A shows the level-adjustor 10 in a lowered
   position, while Figure 6B shows the level-adjustor 10 in a more raised position. In
   the raised position of Figure 6B, the user is able to lift the baby in and out of the
   cot without bending their back as much.
           The level-adjustor 10 can be removed from the first cot 20, and then
10 placed in another different cot (not illustrated).
           Baby mattresses, and hence the inner dimension of cots, are often
   manufactured in a range of standard sizes. Hence, it is possible to design and
   modify the dimensions of the level-adjustor 10 of the present embodiment to fit in
   the interiors of a large number of cots that are sold in the marketplace having
15 standard mattress sizes. This different way of working is useful for the present
   embodiment, because it means that existing cots can be adapted to provide a
   raiseable mattress, by placing the level-adjustor 10 into an existing cot. Thus,
   embodiments of the invention may allow a large range of existing baby-cots to be
   adapted to have added to them the feature of a baby cot-mattress that can be
20 raised and lowered.
           Also, the ability to remove the level-adjustor 10 from a cot has an added
   advantage in that the cot may remain useable for a longer period of years, as the
   child grows up. The removal of the level-adjustor 10 from the cot means that the
   mattress would be placed lower in the cot, compared to if the level-adjustor 10
25 were in place.
    Mattress support
           The level-adjustor 10 comprises mattress-support-means that is adapted,
    in use, to support the cot-mattress.

                                            13
           The mattress-support-means is in a form that includes a mattress platform
   30 on which a mattress is able to rest.
           In Figures 5, 6A, 6B and 7, the mattress platform 30 has two parallel strips
   31 that define the lengthwise-edge of the mattress platform 30. A series of slats
 5 32 are span the gap between the two strips 31. Together the parallel strips 31
   and slats 32 combine to form the frame-platform 30 on which a mattress can rest.
           The invention in its broadest aspect is not limited to this particular example
   of mattress-support-means shown in the diagrams. Other modifications and
   variations can be used to create a support-means that supports the mattress. For
10 instance, in other embodiments, the mattress-support-means can include a flat
   panel, instead of the slats.
   Raising & Lowering
           The level-adjustor 10 may be a portable raising-and-lowering-mechanism
   in the form of an X-shaped assembly 40, shown in Figure 1. The X-shaped
15 assembly 40 comprises an X-shaped-like mechanism that, in said use, is able to
   raise and lower the mattress-support-means. The X-shaped assembly 40 is
   adapted to controllably raise and lower the mattress frame-platform 30 by the
   user's control,
           The X-shaped assembly 40 has portions that also function as part of the
20 mattress-support-means. The X-shaped assembly 40 has upper support
   platforms 45, 46 on which edges of the mattress frame-platform 30 can rest.
           These small upper platforms 45, 46 includes screw holes, which align with
   corresponding screw holes in the mattress frame-platform 30, so that the platform
   can be held fast to the platforms 45, 46 using screws. These screws can be
25 readily removed when the level-adjustor 10 is to be removed from the cot.
           In Figure 1, the embodiment of the X-shaped assembly 40 includes an X
   shaped mechanism in a form that has two criss-crossed arms 50, 51. There are
   two such X-shaped mechanisms, one each to support both lengthwise-edges of
   the mattress frame-platform 30.

                                              14
           In each of the two X-shaped mechanisms 40, the pair of arms 50, 51 are
   pivotally connected to each other by housing a common axle 55. This common
   axle 55 is shared by both of the X-shaped mechanism at both lengthwise-edges
   of the mattress frame-platform 30. The scissor-like relative motion of the arms 50,
 5 51, pivoting about the common axle 55, enable the criss-crossed arms 50, 51 to
   expand and contract about this common axle 55.
           Either end of each of the criss-crossed arms 50, 51 is provided with small
   platforms 45 at their extremities.
           Each of the criss-crossed arms 50, 51, at one end, is provided with a short
10 platform (45 or 45A). Also, each of the criss-crossed arms 50, 51, at the other
   end, is provided with an elongated platform (46 or 46A). The short platforms 45,
   45A on each of the arms are functionally identical. Likewise, the elongated
   platforms 46 or 46A are functionally identical.
           Hence, in the usage of the X-shaped assembly 40, when the platforms are
15 located uppermost in the assembly, the platforms function as supports for the
   mattress frame-platform 30.
           In usage, when these platforms are located at the base of the assembly,
   those platforms 45A, 46A function as base supports for the overall X-shaped
   assembly 40. In this usage, these lower platforms 45A, 46A rest on lower base
20 60 of the cot, as in Figure 7. In use, the elongated platforms 46A are positioned
   around the centre of the cot mattress.
           In Figure 7, the lower elongated platform 46A is able to slide in an
   elongated groove, as the X-shaped assembly 40 is raised and lowered
           The platforms 45, 45A, 46, 46A are pivotally connected to their respective
25 criss-crossed arms 50, 51. This enables each of the platforms 45, 45A, 46, 46A
   to maintain a generally horizontal orientation, relative to either the mattress
   frame-platform 30 or the lower base 60, as the case may be, through the entire
   range of motion of the criss-crossed arms 50, 51, as the X-shaped assembly 40
   is raised or lowered by the user.

                                              15
           The X-shaped assembly 40 comprises seating-means that enables the
   portable mechanism to be seated securely in the cot. In the embodiment, the
   seating-means includes the lower platforms 45A, 46A that enable the level
   adjustor 10 to be placed on a suitable supporting surface in this present example
 5 of the cot, and then removed and placed in other different cots. In particular, the
   lower platforms 45A, 46A are able to sit on either a flat surface in the other
   different cots, or on side ledges in those other cots that are able to at least
   support these lower platforms 45A, 46A.
           In other embodiments, the seating-means can be modified into other
10 forms. For instance, the seating-means can be in the form of a lower panel that
   sits on the entire base of the cot, rather than just on edge margins. In another
   modification, the seating-means can be similar to the upper mattress platform 30,
   in that a modification can have the seating-means in the form of a framework that
   sits on the base of the cot.
15         The X-shaped assembly 40 is adapted to controllably raise and lower the
   embodiment of the mattress-support-means by the user's control.
           In Figure 1, the X-shaped assembly 40 includes an activation mechanism
   which comprises an actuator 70. The actuator may be in the form a hydraulic
   solenoid or other electric linear actuator that drives a piston 70.
20         The piston 70 includes a piston member 71 that reciprocates in the piston
   70.
           In Figure 1 and 7, the end of the piston member 71 is connected to a tie
   rod 72 that is connected at each end to the upper elongated platforms 45, 46 of
   the X-shaped assembly 40.
25         Thus, as the piston member 71 reciprocates outwardly out of the actuator
   70, this has an effect of pushing the tie-rod 72 in a upwards direction, thereby
   urging the X-shaped assembly 40 into a raised height.

                                                16
           Also, as the piston member 71 reciprocates inwardly into the actuator 70,
   this has an opposite effect of pulling the tie-rod 72 in a downward direction,
   thereby urging the X-shaped assembly 40 into a lowered height.
           Hence, the reciprocating motion of the piston member 71 thereby serves
 5 to raise and lower the X-shaped assembly 40 between the raised height and the
   lowered height.
           In Figure 7, the shorter of the upper support platforms 45 is fixed in
   position, while the elongated upper support platforms 46 is free to slide in
   harmony with the raising and lowering motion of the X-shaped assembly 40. The
10 upper support platforms 45 may be fixed to the mattress frame-platform 30 by
   using screws for added security. The screws can easily be un-screwed when the
   level-adjustor 10 is to be removed from the cot.
           The X-shaped assembly 40, in use with the cot-mattress thereon, is able
   to raise the upper platforms 45, 4A and the frame-platform 30 supported by the
15 upper platforms. This raising and lowering is controlled by the user to a selected
   raised height that assists the user in lifting a baby off the cot-mattress when at
   the selected raised height. The platform may be set at one of three height
   positions, including a low position for a sleeping infant, an intermediate position,
   and a raised position to enable a carer to comfortably reach the infant on the
20 platform.
           The portable X-shaped assembly 40, in said use, is also able to lower the
   mattress-support-means by the user's control. The cot-mattress can therefore
   be lowered to a level that enables the baby to sleep on the cot-whilst being
   contained safely deep in the cot.The module may be portable and removable
25 such that the user is able to place the module in the baby-cot and remove the
   module from the baby-cot. The user control is a remote control device adapted to
   control the actuator 70 using a radio control device. [Justin, you will need more
   detail if this addition is to add materially to the disclosure]
           The raised height, in use, has a maximum upper position. In Figure 7, the
30 maximum upper position of the X-shaped assembly 40 is partly limited by

                                               17
   dimensions of the crossed arms 50, 51 of the X-shaped-like mechanism,
   however, the maximum upper position is particularly limited by the reach of the
   piston member 71 of the actuator 70. In other words, the maximum height
   achievable by the X-shaped assembly 40 cannot go beyond the reach of the
 5 maximum outward position of the piston member 71.
           The level-adjustor 10, in use, is provided with a user-control-means. The
   user-control-means is advantageously in the form of a remote control. The
   remote control may use radio or other wireless communication. Using the user
   control-means, the user is able to activate the X-shaped assembly 40 to control
10 the raising and lowering of the parts of the level-adjustor 10 that support the
   mattress. In the embodiment, the user-control-means is in the form of an
   electrical control circuit 80 that controls the operation of the motion of the piston
   member 71 in the actuator 70. In Figure 8, the electrical control circuit 80 and its
   electrical connection to the actuator 70 of the level-adjustor 10 is shown in
15 schematic form, with the electrical circuit being represented by a block diagram,
   without illustrating the actual electrical wiring and circuit components.
           To obscure the height adjustment mechanism below the platform, a cover
   is provided. The cover is preferably made of a solid panel. The cover
   advantageously obscures from external view the mechanism when the platform is
20 raised. The cover depends downwardly from the respective side edges of the
   platform. The cover may contract downwardly. An L-shaped flange or bracket
   extending from the upper edge of the cover is attached to the side edges of the
   platform by one or more fasteners. The cover is adapted to obscure the
   mechanism as the platform is raised or lowered. The cover is advantageously in
25 the form of a wooden screen.
           The screen includes a skirt depending downwardly from the platform. The
   platform is telescopically received in a lower region of the internal space of the
   cot. As the screen cover moves with the platform, at no time is the mechanism
   exposed to external view or to digital (finger) or other access. The risk of jam,
30 snag or pinch points are minimised between the side barriers of the cot and the

                                             18
   platform, and from external to the cot where other children may be located, by
   ensuring that there are minimal or no gaps between the platform and the side
   walls of the cot. The cover panel on each side has a curved and concave lower
   edge in which the respective ends of the lower edge extend lower than a mid
 5 section of the cover's lower edge.
          The cot optionally includes surveillance equipment in the form of a
   wireless webcam. The webcam is adapted to communicate with a smart device
   via the internet or a mobile telephone service. The wireless webcam is an off the
   shelf camera and is adapted to communicate with a smart phone app.
10        The surveillance equipment is mounted at one end of the cot and a lens is
   directed inwardly to receive and transmit visual feed of the inside of the cot.
           In Figure 9, there shown a cot 20a in which the mechanism 10a (not
   shown) is obscured behind a screen in the form of a curtain cover 35a. The
   curtain cover 35a is attached to the edge of the platform 30a by suitable
15 fasteners and drapes or hangs down from the platform's 30a peripheral edge and
   terminates with a lower hem 36a. The curtain cover 35a is made of flexible,
   collapsible material and is effective to obscure the view of the mechanism 1Oa
   which is positioned behind the curtain cover 35a and underneath the platform
   30a.
20         In Figure 10, a platform 30b is shown with a pair of side edge screens 35b
   that are fastened to the peripheral edge 36b of the platform 30b by an angled
   bracket 37b. The bracket 37b secures the screen 35b via screws inserted
   through the bracket 37b, the screen 35b and the platform edge 36b. The screen
   35b is made from a solid panel, preferably a light weight cellulosic material such
25 as plywood, has straight side edges 38b and an upper edge 39b corresponding
   to the linear peripheral edge 36b of the platform 30b. The lower edge 34b of the
   screen 35b follows a curved and/or concave shape in which the vertical side
   edges 38b are substantially longer than the width of the screen 35b in its central
   region 33b.

                                              19
           The contour of the lower edge 34b corresponds in parallel relationship to a
   complementarily curved upper edge of fascia panel 44b that covers the lower
   internal components of the cot 20b. The convex upper curve 44b of the fascia
   panel 43b has a larger width in its central portion 42b than the length of the end
 5 side walls 41 b. Accordingly, the lower edge 34b of the screen is generally
   concave, so that respective edges 34b, 44b complement each other and are
   substantially parallel as the screen 45b moves up and down with the platform
   30b.
           As shown in Figure 11, relative to the position of the platform 30b shown in
10 Figure 12, the platform 10 can be raised by the mechanism 1Ob from the lower
   position shown in Figure 12 to an upper position shown in Figure 11. In the
   upper position of the platform 30b shown in Figure 11, a carer attending to an
   infant does not need to bend down nearly as far as he would to attend to an
   infant lying in a standard cot. For example, from the lower position of the
15 platform 30b shown in Figure 12, whereby to minimise the risk of lower back
   injury to the carer, the platform 30b may be raised to the upper position shown in
   Figure 11.
           The embodiments have been advanced by way of example only, and
   modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as defined by the
20 appended claims.
            In this specification, where the words comprise or comprises or derivatives
   thereof are used in relation to elements, integers, steps or features, this is to
   indicate that those elements, integers, steps or features are present but it is not
   to be taken to preclude the possibility of other elements, integers, steps or
25 features being present.
           Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its
   derivatives are intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning
   unless the contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise. That is,
   the word "comprise" and its derivatives will be taken to indicate the inclusion of
30 not only the listed components, steps or features that it directly references, but

                                              20
   also other components, steps or features not specifically listed, unless the
   contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise.
           In the present specification, terms such as "component", "apparatus",
   "means", "device" and "member" may refer to singular or plural items and are
 5 terms intended to refer to a set of properties, functions or characteristics
   performed by one or more items having one or more parts. It is envisaged that
   where a "component", "apparatus", "means", "device" or "member" or similar term
   is described as being a unitary object, then a functionally equivalent object
   having multiple components is considered to fall within the scope of the term, and
10 similarly, where a "component", "apparatus", "assembly", "means", "device" or
   "member" is described as having multiple items, a functionally equivalent but
   unitary object is also considered to fall within the scope of the term, unless the
   contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise.
           It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications
15 and variations may be made to the embodiments described herein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
           Where a word herein is expressed in the singular form with a plural form or
   suffix included in brackets, the plural form is included within the word's meaning.
           Orientational terms used in the specification and claims such as vertical,
20 horizontal, top, bottom, upper and lower are to be interpreted as relational and
   are based on the premise that the component, item, article, apparatus, device or
   instrument will usually be considered in a particular orientation, typically with the
   cot placed on the ground, as shown in Figure 7. Hence, terms such as upper and
   lower are given their natural meaning in this orientation.
25

                                             21
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.     A height-adjustment mechanism for a platform adapted to support a
    mattress in a cot, the platform adapted to be supported at two or more spaced
 5  support zones,
   the apparatus comprising:
            at least two platform supports adapted to support the platform at or along
   the two or more spaced support zones in a substantially level orientation or a
    predetermined shallow inclination;
10         a first beam pivotably connected at its upper end to the platform or to a
   first one of the at least two platform supports;
           a second beam hingedly connected to the first beam;
           a lower end of the first beam mounted to a first travelling hinge at a first
   stationary base in or on the cot;
15         a lower end of the second beam hingedly mounted to a second stationary
   base in or on the cot;
           an upper end of the second beam mounted to a second travelling hinge at
   a second one of the at least two platform supports; and
           a height-adjustment mechanism variable in length and directly or indirectly
20 adapted to bear on the upper end of the second beam to controllably raise and
   lower the platform,
           the hinged connection between the first and second beams being
   intermediate the length of each beam,
           wherein the first and second travelling hinges each include a respective
25 first and second defined track in which the lower end of the first beam and the
   upper end of the second beam are adapted to reciprocally travel, the length of
   the respective tracks limiting the extent of upward and downward travel of the
   platform; and

                                              22
           the cot further comprises a cover to obscure the height adjustment
   mechanism from view and to assist in obstructing access by children to the
   height adjustment mechanism.
           2. The height adjustment apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the infant cot
 5 comprises four walls defining a substantially rectangular block inner cot space in
   which the inner faces of the walls are sheer and vertically aligned, such that the
   walls resist rotation or skewing of the platform away from a consistent horizontal
   or inclined orientation.
           3. The height adjustment apparatus of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the platform
10 is rectangular in plan, and in side and end elevation, views, and includes a frame,
   including a peripheral frame and an internal frame.
           4. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein
   the platform is supported by the platform supports at least two points to provide a
   stable surface that is maintained at a consistent horizontal or inclined orientation
15 in which the plane in one height-adjusted position remains in a plane parallel to
   any other position it may assume throughout the extent of its travel.
           5. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the first support of the at least two platform supports preferably
   comprises a first hinged bracket which is attached to an underside of the
20 platform.
           6. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the first support is one of a first pair of supports of the at least two
   supports, the first pair of supports are aligned so that they are substantially equi
   spaced from an end or edge of the platform, and the first pair of supports include
25 a corresponding first pair of hinged brackets, the first pair of hinged brackets
   being substantially coaxially aligned.
           7. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the second support comprises a second travelling hinge bracket and

                                             23
   presents a broad upper surface whereby to support the platform at a second
   support zone.
           8. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the second support includes a second pair of supports spaced from each
 5 other, the second pair of supports aligned such that their respective hinge
   connections are substantially coaxial.
           9. The height adjustment apparatus of Claim 8, wherein the at least two
   supports number at least four supports and comprise the first and second pairs of
   supports, the spacing between the first support and the second support varying
10 as the height adjustment mechanism rises or falls.
           10. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the first and second beams are each elongate, substantially linear and
   made of a rigid material and of linear construction.
           11. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
15 wherein the first and second beams each comprise a pair of rigid straps spaced
   from each other and separated by a central elongate gap, a central hinge being
   located intermediate their respective lengths, the central hinge interrupting the
   central gap whereby the spaced straps are joined about the central hinge and at
   their respective ends.
20         12. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the first and second tracks of the travelling hinges each include a
   respective first and second defined slot in which the lower end of the first beam
   and the upper end of the second beam are adapted to reciprocally travel.
           13. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
25 wherein the height-adjustment mechanism comprises an activation mechanism
   using an electric linear actuator, the height-adjustment mechanism being directly
   or indirectly adapted to bear on the upper end of the second beam or the second
   travelling hinge to controllably raise and lower the platform.

                                              24
           14. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the height-adjustment apparatus is able to raise the platform supports by
   a user's control to any one of three selected height positions, the uppermost
   position facilitating access of the user to the platform without necessarily having
 5 to bend over.
           15. The height adjustment apparatus of Claim 14, wherein the portable
   mechanism is be able to lower the platform support means by the user's control
   to lower the cot-mattress to a level for enabling the infant to sleep on the cot
   mattress in the cot at a safe position where the infant preferably cannot climb
10 over the wall(s) and out of the cot.
           16. The height adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
   wherein the first and second beams form part of a scissor- or X-shaped-like
   mechanism that is adapted to raise and lower the platform.
           17. The height-adjustment apparatus of any one of the previous claims,
15 further including an electrical surveillance device to enable a remote display
   device to view the cot in real time.
           18. The height adjustment apparatus Claim 17, wherein the electrical
   surveillance device is a wireless webcam that communicates with a smart device
   via the internet or a mobile telephone service.
20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
