1002049667
ABSTRACT
         A method of communication in an elevator operating environment is provided.
The method includes generating a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) distinguishable signal
with a wireless signal generating device located in at least one location proximate to an
elevator boarding area. The method also includes receiving the BLE signal with a mobile
device when the mobile device is proximate to the wireless signal generating device. The
method further includes initiating an elevator call with the mobile device. The method
yet further includes initiating the mobile device to enter a connection mode with a BLE
access point device.

1002049667
    COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD OF COMMUNICATION IN AN
                        ELEVATOR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
BACKGROUND
          [0001] Existing elevator systems typically require a user to step into a building
lobby and interact with a system kiosk or the like to submit an elevator call (e.g., hall call
or destination call). Unfortunately, significant wait times often result due to all patrons
using the system kiosk(s).
BRIEF SUMMARY
          [0002] Disclosed is a method of communication in an elevator operating
environment.       The method includes generating       a Bluetooth low energy (BLE)
distinguishable signal with a wireless signal generating device located in at least one
location proximate to an elevator boarding area. The method also includes receiving the
BLE signal with a mobile device when the mobile device is proximate to the wireless
signal generating device. The method further includes initiating an elevator call with the
mobile device. The method yet further includes initiating the mobile device to enter a
connection mode with a BLE access point device.
          [0003] Also disclosed is a communication system that includes an operating
environment proximate an elevator boarding area.        Also included is a wireless signal
generating device emitting a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) signal to be received by a
mobile device located within the elevator boarding area.       Further included is a BLE
access point device connected to the mobile device upon detection of advertisement by
the mobile device after the mobile device receives an advertisement from the wireless
signal generating device, the connection to the BLE access point device to the mobile
device to request an elevator assignment from the BLE access point device, the wireless
signal generating device being a BLE central communication device when monitoring for
signal generating devices that identify an area and becoming a BLE peripheral
                                              1

1002049667
communication device upon identification of a signal from a recognized signal generating
device.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0004] The present disclosure is illustrated by way of example and not limited in
the accompanying figures in which like reference numerals indicate similar elements.
          [0005] FIG. 1 illustrates an elevator communication system in an example
embodiment;
          [0006] FIG. 2 illustrates a user environment of the elevator communication
system; and
          [0007] FIG. 3 schematically represents the elevator communication system.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0008] FIG. 1 depicts an elevator communication system 200 in an example
embodiment. The elevator communication system 200 includes an elevator system 203
installed at a building 202.    In some embodiments, the building 202 may be an office
building or a collection of office buildings that may or may not be physically located near
each other. The building 202 may include any number of floors. Persons entering the
building 202 may enter at a lobby floor, or any other desired floor, and may go to a
destination floor via one or more conveyance devices.
          [0009] The elevator system 203 may include one or more computing devices,
such as a controller 206. The controller 206 may be configured to control dispatching
operations for one or more elevator cars (e.g., elevator cars 204-1, 204-2) associated with
the elevator system 203. It is understood that the elevator system 203 may utilize more
than one controller 206, and that each controller may control a group of elevator cars
204-1 and 204-2.     Although two elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 are shown in FIG. 1, it is
understood that any number of elevators cars may be used in the elevator system 203.
                                               2

1002049667
The elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 may be located in the same hoistway or in different
hoistways so as to allow coordination amongst elevator cars 204-1 and 204-2 in different
elevator banks serving different floors.    It is understood that other components of the
elevator system 203 (e.g., drive, counterweight, safeties, etc.) are not depicted for ease of
illustration.
          [0010] Also shown in FIG. 1 is a mobile device 208. The mobile device 208 may
include a device that is carried by a person, such as a smart phone, PDA, tablet, etc. The
mobile device 208 may include wearable items, such as a smart watch, eyewear, etc. The
mobile device 208 may include a processor 250, memory 252 and a communication
module 254, as shown in FIG. 1. The processor 250 can be any type or combination of
computer processors, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, digital signal processor,
application    specific integrated circuit, programmable       logic device,    and/or field
programmable gate array. The memory 252 is an example of a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium tangibly embodied in the mobile device 208 including
executable instructions stored therein, for instance, as firmware.      The communication
module 254 may implement one or more communication protocols, but must support a
BLE peripheral role, as described in further detail herein.
          [0011] The controller 206 may include a processor 260, memory 262 and a
communication module 264, as shown in FIG. 1. The processor 260 can be any type or
combination of computer processors, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, digital
signal processor, application specific integrated circuit, programmable logic device,
and/or field programmable gate array.        The memory 262 is an example of a non
transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly embodied in the controller 206
including executable instructions stored therein, for instance, as firmware.             The
communication module 264 may implement one or more communication protocols, but
must support BLE communication in a BLE central role, as described in further detail
herein.
                                              3

1002049667
          [0012] Referring now to FIGS. 2 and 3, an embodiment of the elevator
communication system 200 is illustrated according to further aspects of the disclosure. In
the illustrated embodiment, the mobile device 208 functions as a BLE peripheral device
and one or more devices of the elevator communication system 200 functions as a BLE
central device that initiates communication and interaction with the mobile device 208, as
will be appreciated from the disclosure herein.
          [0013] The above-described BLE peripheral device role of the mobile device 208
and the BLE central device(s) role of the elevator communication system 200 are
reversed from typical systems. The role reversal of devices in this elevator system is both
unique and a fundamental design advantage when deploying such a system in a public
environment.      If the mobile device 208 were in the central role it would take on the
responsibility of managing connection to the system. With the mobile device 208 unable
to intercommunicate, and mobile device placement in the lobby being uncontrollable and
random, the flow of communication would be chaotic with mobile devices likely all
connecting to the same access point device, resulting in unnecessary communication
traffic and collisions. In the system 200 disclosed herein, connection and processing of
information is made from as many mobile devices as possible, as quickly as possible, via
the wireless communication Bluetooth low energy (BLE) with short connection durations
for each individual mobile device.
          [0014] In the illustrated embodiment, at least one, but typically multiple BLE
beacon devices 300 (also referred to herein as BLE wireless signal generating devices)
are disposed in the system operating environment. Specifically, the BLE beacon devices
300 are located proximate an elevator boarding area. The BLE beacon devices 300 are
deployed as separate devices in some embodiments for the purpose of enhancing the
ability of the mobile device 208 to detect the presence of the BLE-enabled elevator
communication system 200. The BLE beacon devices 300 emit a BLE signal 302 with a
BLE emitter 304 that BLE-enabled mobile devices, operating in the usual BLE central
mode initially can continuously search for, such as the mobile device 208 described
                                             4

1002049667
herein, to trigger the mobile device 208 to change their operational mode from BLE
central mode to BLE peripheral mode and enter a connection mode with the elevator
communication system 200. Upon receipt of the BLE signal 302, the mobile device 208
advertises its presence with an additional BLE signal that is detectable by one or more
nearby BLE access point devices 306 that are disposed in the system operating
environment. Specifically, the BLE access point devices 306 are located proximate the
elevator boarding area. The mobile device can also advertise its presence upon the user
opening an application on the mobile device 208, or with the application open the
advertising could be set to start only upon the user entering a request within the
application on the mobile device 208. The mobile device 208 is connectable to the BLE
beacon devices 300 and the BLE access point devices 306 when located proximate the
elevator boarding area. In some embodiments, the mobile device 208 is connectable to
the components when located within 100 feet, for example. It is to be appreciated that
this distance/range is an illustrative range and some embodiments will permit connection
with larger or smaller ranges.
          [0015] One or more BLE access point devices 306 start to connect to the mobile
devices advertising with a credential recognizable by the elevator communication system
200, as described herein, with data stored on the phone that is elevator request context
data. Only one BLE access point device 306 will complete the connection to the mobile
device 208as the mobile device 208 will indicate that it has connected and prevent other
connections from forming. The BLE access point device 306 may also be referred to as a
bridge or a suitable alternative. One BLE access point device 306 is capable of handling
multiple connections and therefore multiple mobile devices simultaneously.       The BLE
access point device 306 is part of, or is in operative communication with, the controller
206. It is to be appreciated that the overall system 200 may include a plurality of BLE
access point devices 306 spaced from each other to facilitate operation of the system 200
over a desired distance range. In some embodiments, the BLE access point device 306
includes one or more BLE beacon device 300 integrated therein.
                                               5

1002049667
          [0016] The BLE access point device 306 includes a BLE module 310 that
receives the BLE signal 302 from the mobile device 208 to establish connection of the
mobile device 208 to the BLE access point device 306. Upon connection, the mobile
device 208 enters a request for an elevator assignment (i.e., elevator request, elevator call,
hall call, destination call, etc.) that is received by the BLE access point device 306. The
BLE access point device 306 communicates with the controller 206 in a wired or wireless
manner via at least one communication device 312 that is integrated in the BLE access
point device 306. A wired and wireless communication arrangement is illustrated for
reference, but it is to be appreciated that both are not required in some embodiments. In
particular,    communication      may     be   established  only   wirelessly  or wired   via
communication hardware component(s) 312.                The controller 206 responds with an
elevator assignment for the mobile device 208 user and that assignment is relayed to the
mobile device 208 by the BLE access point device 306. After receipt of the assignment,
the mobile device 208 is disconnected from the BLE access point device 306.
Disconnection may occur automatically by the BLE access point device 306 or may
require manual termination by the mobile device 208 user via input on the mobile device
208.
          [0017] The above-described embodiment of the method provides a single
connection (transaction) between the BLE access point device 306 and the mobile device,
but it is to be appreciated that the call (e.g., elevator request) and the assignment may be
provided over two separate connections. The two connection architecture is advantageous
in that the mobile user may be moving while making their elevator request.          The first
connection may be made through one BLE access point device 306 and they might walk
out of range of that first BLE access point device 306 prior to receiving their elevator
assignment.     In this architecture, after the mobile device 208 enters the request to the
original BLE access point device 306 the BLE access point device 306 disconnects from
the mobile device 208 and the mobile device starts advertising again with a different
signature that it is awaiting an elevator assignment. The elevator communication system
200 sends elevator assignments to all BLE access point devices allowing the second BLE
                                                  6

1002049667
access point device 306 that sees the waiting BLE advertisement to connect to and send
the elevator assignment to the waiting mobile device 208.
          [0018] In operation, the elevator communication system 200 provides users in the
operating environment with a seamless and interactive elevator request experience. As
shown in FIG. 2, a user simply enters the elevator boarding area with the mobile device
208 and one of the BLE beacon devices 300 triggers the mobile device 208 to enter into a
connection mode based on user configuration data previously stored on the mobile device
208. An application on the mobile device 208 stores a list of universal unique identifiers
(UUIDs) that are advertised by the BLE beacon device(s) 300. Recognizing one of the
advertised UUIDs gives the application context information about the current building
and floor. In some embodiments, based off this context and any user preferences stored
about desired floor and times of day or days of the week for travel, the application
informs the user it will be making a request and then makes a request for the floor on the
user's behalf if the response is in the affirmative. In some embodiments, the application
detects the floor and building context and makes a preprogramed request. In other words,
in some embodiments, the mobile device 208 is pre-commissioned with a digital
credential that enables it to communicate with specific BLE access point devices in a
specific building. The BLE access point device 306 will communicate over an encrypted
BLE channel to the mobile device 208 and authenticate the mobile device 208 based on
the credential. The digital credential may also include an access control payload that is
communicated along with the elevator request to the BLE access point device 306. The
BLE access point device 306 communicates the request and access control payload to the
elevator system that verifies with the access control system that the user with the access
control payload is authorized to travel to the requested floor. The specific call may be
based on a manual input by a user through an interactive application stored on the mobile
device 208 in some embodiments.         This may be done by physical contact between the
user and an interactive surface (e.g., touch screen) of the mobile device 208 or through
voice prompt commands. Alternatively, a user may input predetermined settings into the
mobile device 208 that represent a floor destination, for example. This is particularly
                                               7

1002049667
useful for individuals that often utilize the elevator system to travel to a single floor on a
regular basis. Upon determination of an elevator assignment by the controller 206, the
BLE access point device 306 relays the assignment to the mobile device 208 and it is
displayed to the user. The assignment may also be displayed in alternative manners, such
as on a watch or a wall display, for example. Traditional elevator systems do not assign
users to specific elevators. For this case the message back to the user is a confirmation
that their request has been accepted.
          [0019] Advantageously, the elevator communication system 200 allows a user to
step into an elevator boarding area (e.g., lobby) and receive an elevator assignment
without interacting with anything other than their mobile device 208 and even then only
doing so in a minimalistic fashion. Additionally, backups at system kiosks are reduced,
thereby enabling better traffic flow to elevators. Use of the mobile device 208 as a BLE
peripheral device, rather than a BLE central device, results in a better flow of
communication between the mobile devices and the communication system.
          [0020] Embodiments may be implemented using one or more technologies. In
some embodiments, an apparatus or system may include one or more processors, and
memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the
apparatus or system to perform one or more methodological acts as described herein.
Various mechanical components known to those of skill in the art may be used in some
embodiments.
          [0021] Embodiments may be implemented as one or more apparatuses, systems,
and/or methods.      In some embodiments, instructions may be stored on one or more
computer program products or computer-readable media, such as a transitory and/or non
transitory computer-readable medium. The instructions, when executed, may cause an
entity (e.g., a processor, apparatus or system) to perform one or more methodological acts
as described herein.
                                               8

1002049667
          [0022] While the disclosure has been described in detail in connection with only a
limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the disclosure is not
limited to such disclosed embodiments.        Rather, the disclosure can be modified to
incorporate     any number     of variations,    alterations, substitutions   or equivalent
arrangements not heretofore described, but which are commensurate with the scope of the
disclosure. Additionally, while various embodiments have been described, it is to be
understood that aspects of the disclosure may include only some of the described
embodiments. Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing
description, but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.
                                              9

1002049667
What is claimed is:
          1.      A method of communication in an elevator operating environment
comprising:
         generating a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) distinguishable signal with a wireless
signal generating device located in at least one location proximate to an elevator boarding
area;
         receiving the BLE signal with a mobile device when the mobile device is
proximate to the wireless signal generating device;
         initiating an elevator call with the mobile device; and
         initiating the mobile device to enter a connection mode with a BLE access point
device.
         2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the elevator call is a hall call.
         3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the elevator call is a destination call.
         4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the user initiates the elevator call by
interacting with the mobile device.
         5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the user initiates the elevator call by
inputting predetermined settings into the mobile device.
         6.       The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating between the
BLE access point device and a controller to determine the elevator assignment.
         7.       The method of claim 6, wherein the BLE access point device and the
controller are in wireless communication.
                                               10

1002049667
          8.     The method of claim 6, wherein the BLE access point device and the
controller are in wired communication.
         9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising advertising and functioning the
mobile device as a BLE peripheral device with data stored on the mobile device upon
receipt of the signal from the BLE wireless signal generating device.
          10.    A communication system comprising:
         an operating environment proximate an elevator boarding area;
         a wireless signal generating device emitting a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) signal
to be received by a mobile device located within the elevator boarding area; and
         a BLE access point device connected to the mobile device upon detection of
advertisement by the mobile device after the mobile device receives an advertisement
from the wireless signal generating device, the connection to the BLE access point device
to the mobile device to request an elevator assignment from the BLE access point device,
the wireless signal generating device being a BLE central communication device when
monitoring for signal generating devices that identify an area and becoming a BLE
peripheral communication device upon identification of a signal from a recognized signal
generating device.
          11.    The communication system of claim 10, further comprising a controller in
operative communication with the BLE access point device to determine the elevator
assignment to be communicated to the mobile device.
          12.    The communication system of claim 11, wherein the controller is in wired
communication with the BLE access point device.
          13.    The communication system of claim 11, wherein the controller is in
wireless communication with the BLE access point device.
                                             11

1002049667
          14.  The communication system of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of
BLE wireless signal generating devices disposed in the operating environment, each
device generating a BLE distinguishable wireless signal.
          15.  The communication system of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of
BLE access point devices disposed in the operating environment, each device
connectable to the mobile device.
          16.  The communication system of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of
mobile devices in the operating environment, each mobile device connectible to the BLE
access point device and capable of detecting the signal from a wireless signal generating
device.
                                           12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
