                                                     ABSTRACT
                               Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one
                fixing assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and
                having a front face and a rear face. The or each fixing assembly
 5              comprising a bearing member extending from the rear face of the grid and
                arranged to locate behind the surface. The bearing member being rotatable
                about a longitudinal axis between a released and a bearing position; an
                actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid and being
                engageable with the bearing member. The actuator being operative to
10              rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released
                position and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the
                bearing position, to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member
                with respect to the grid so as to move the bearing member into contact
                with a rear wall of the surface. In one form, an indicator visible from the
15              front face of the grid is provided to indicate when the bearing member is in
                the bearing position. In another form, a support member is provided to
                support the bearing member to maintain its alignment relative to the
                longitudinal axis.
         Fig. 2.
20
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

      2/5
0
  ciD

                          FIXING SYSTEM FOR AN ELECTRICAL FITTING
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
   This disclosure relates to an electrical fitting and in particular a fixing assembly
 5 for an electrical fitting.
                                       BACKGROUND ART
   Electrical fittings such as power socket outlets and switches of various kinds are
   designed to be mounted in walls of residences and commercial buildings.
   Typically, the power outlets and switches are installed by forming a specific size
10 of opening in a wall to fit a specific size mounting bracket, mounting the
   mounting bracket to the wall surrounding the opening, and then fixing a grid of
   the fitting to the mounting bracket by mechanical fasteners. Sometimes, the
   mounting bracket is secured about the opening of the wall using a binder material,
   for example an adhesive or cement-based product. These practices involve
15 precise measuring and are time consuming and will likely be required to involve a
   professional electrician, so can also be costly.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does
   not constitute an admission that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
20                                        SUMMARY
   Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing
   assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front
   face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising a bearing member
   extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate behind the surface,
25 the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis between a released
   and a bearing position; an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid
   and being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
                                                1
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released position
   and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position,
   to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so
   as to move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface; and an
 5 indicator visible from the front face of the grid to indicate when the bearing
   member is in the bearing position.
   Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing
   assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front
   face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising: a bearing member
10 extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate behind the surface,
   the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis between a released
   and a bearing position; an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid
   and being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
   rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released position
15 and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position,
   to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so
   as to move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface; and a
   support member which extends from the rear face of the grid, the support member
   being operative to support the bearing member to maintain its alignment relative
20 to the longitudinal axis.
   Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing
   assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front
   face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising: a bearing member
   extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate behind the surface,
25 the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis between a released
   and a bearing position; an actuator being in the form of a screw having a shaft and
   a head including a drive receiving arrangement, the head being accessible from
   the front face of the grid and the shaft being engageable with the bearing member,
   the actuator being operative to rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid
30 between the released position and the bearing position and, when the bearing
                                              2
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   member is in the bearing position, to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing
   member with respect to the grid so as to move the bearing member into contact
   with a rear wall of the surface; and the bearing member comprises a body and an
   arm that extends outwardly from the body transverse to the longitudinal axis, and
 5 wherein the distal end of the shaft is housed within the bearing member body.
                                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments will now be described by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings in which
   Fig. 1 is a front perspective view of an embodiment of an electrical fitting;
10 Fig. 2 is a rear perspective view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 1;
   Fig. 3 is a rear perspective view of the electrical fitting having hidden components
   visible of Fig. 2;
   Fig. 4 is a front perspective view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 1 prior to
   installation to a surface;
15 Fig. 5 is a front perspective view of the electrical fitting having hidden
   components visible of Fig. 4 disposed against the surface;
   Fig. 6 is a rear perspective view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 5;
   Fig. 7 is a front view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 1 disposed against a surface
   with the bearing members of the fixing assemblies in a released position;
20 Fig. 8 is a rear view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 7;
   Fig. 9 is a front view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 1 disposed against a surface
   with the bearing members of the fixing assemblies in a bearing position; and
   Fig. 10 is a rear view of the electrical fitting of Fig. 9.
                                                      3
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   In the following detailed description, reference is made to accompanying
   drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The illustrative
   embodiments described in the detailed description, depicted in the drawings and
 5 defined in the claims, are not intended to be limiting. Other embodiments may be
   utilised and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope
   of the subject matter presented. It will be readily understood that the aspects of
   the present disclosure, as generally described herein and illustrated in the
   drawings can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated and designed in a
10 wide variety of different configurations, all of which are contemplated in this
   disclosure.
   Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing
   assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front
   face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising a bearing member
15 extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate behind the surface,
   the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis between a released
   and a bearing position; an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid
   and being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
   rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released position
20 and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position,
   to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so
   as to move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface; and an
   indicator visible from the front face of the grid to indicate when the bearing
   member is in the bearing position. Advantageously, the fitting assembly is fast
25 and easy to install. There is no bracket needed, so precise measuring is not
   required for mounting the grid to the surface. Further, as a result of the indicator
   being visible from the front face is it allows simple visual inspection to confirm
   that the bearing member (which is located behind the surface and therefore not
   visible) is in its bearing position to assist both in installation and to ensure that the
30 electrical fitting is properly fitted.
                                                4
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   In some forms, rotation of the bearing member from the bearing position is
   inhibited in at least one direction. In some forms, the actuator rotates in a first
   direction to allow the bearing member to move from the released position to the
   bearing position and to cause the longitudinal movement of the bearing member.
 5 In some forms, the actuator rotates in a second direction to allow the bearing
   member to move from the bearing position to the released position and to cause
   longitudinal movement of the bearing member. In some forms, the bearing
   member is in threaded engagement with the actuator so as to enable the
   longitudinal movement under rotation of the actuator. In some forms, the actuator
10 is in the form of a screw which includes a head and a shaft. In some forms, the
   actuator head includes a drive receiving arrangement which allows the actuator to
   be driven by a tool (such as a screw driver, socket drive etc.). The shaft may
   include an external thread. It is understood that other types of actuators may be
   suitable, for example a cam drive or the like.
15 In some forms, the fixing assembly further comprises an intermediate member
   positioned intermediate the bearing member and the actuator. In some forms, the
   intermediate member is inhibited from rotating relative to the bearing member
   about the longitudinal axis by engagement of the bearing member with the
   intermediate member. In some forms, the bearing member is movable in relation
20 to the intermediate member, and the actuator causes the longitudinal movement of
   the bearing member with respect to the intermediate member so as to move the
   bearing member into contact with the rear wall of the surface. In some forms, the
   bearing member and the intermediate member have cooperating engaging surfaces
   that interengage to inhibit rotation of the bearing member relative to the
25 intermediate member. In one form, the one or more engaging surfaces and the one
   or more complementary engaging surfaces are keyed. In some forms, the keyed
   engaging surfaces are in the form of complementary cylindrical and flat surfaces
   which inhibit relative rotation therebetween.
   In some forms, the grid includes an internal wall defining an aperture for
30 receiving the intermediate member, and the intermediate member is restrained
                                               5
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   from rotation beyond a position which places the bearing member into the bearing
   positon by a stop arrangement between the intermediate member and the grid.
   In some forms, the indicator is disposed on, or formed part of, the intermediate
   member. However, it is understood that the indicator may be engaged with
 5 various different components of the electrical fitting assembly. In some forms,
   the indicator may independently mounted to the grid, and able to be rotated in
   response to rotation of the bearing member as it rotates between the released and
   the bearing positions. In some forms, the indicator may be engaged with the
   actuator, or the bearing member.
10 In some forms, the bearing member comprises a body that is engageable with the
   actuator and an arm that extends outwardly the body transverse to the longitudinal
   axis. In some forms, when in the bearing member is in the released position, the
   arm is disposed within the perimeter of the grid, and when in the bearing position,
   the arm projects beyond the perimeter of the grid.
15 In some forms, the or each fixing assembly further comprises a support member
   which extends from the rear face of the grid, the support member being operative
   to support the bearing member to maintain its alignment relative to the
   longitudinal axis.
   Disclosed is an electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing
20 assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front
   face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising: a bearing member
   extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate behind the surface,
   the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis between a released
   and a bearing position; an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid
25 and being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
   rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released position
   and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position,
   to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so
   as to move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface; and a
                                              6
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   support member which extends from the rear face of the grid, the support member
   being operative to support the bearing member to maintain its alignment relative
   to the longitudinal axis.
   In some forms, the support member has at least one support surface that
 5 cooperates with a complementary support surface of the bearing member to
   support the bearing member. In some forms, the bearing member support surface
   moves into facing relation with the support surface of the support member on said
   longitudinal movement.
   In some forms, when in facing relation, the support surface of the support member
10 inhibits rotation of the bearing member. In some forms, the support member
   inhibits the longitudinal movement unless the bearing member is in the bearing
   position.
   In some forms, the actuator is in the form of a threaded screw having a shaft and a
   head including a drive receiving arrangement. The drive receiving arrangement
15 allows the actuator to be driven by a tool. In some forms, the distal end of the
   shaft is housed within the bearing member body. Advantageously, by housing the
   shaft of the actuator, the bearing member is configured to isolate the actuator
   (which is typically metal) from electrical componentry of the fitting thereby
   enhancing the safety of the electrical fitting.
20 In some form, an electrical fitting is provided that comprises a grid and at least
   one fixing assembly, the grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and
   having a front face and a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising:
   a bearing member extending from the rear face of the grid and arranged to locate
   behind the surface, the bearing member being rotatable about a longitudinal axis
25 between a released and a bearing position; an actuator being in the form of a
   screw having a shaft and a head including a drive receiving arrangement, the head
   being accessible from the front face of the grid and the shaft being engageable
   with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to rotate the bearing
                                               7
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   member with respect to the grid between the released position and the bearing
   position and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position, to cause
   longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so as to
   move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface; and the
 5 bearing member comprises a body and an arm that extends outwardly from the
   body transverse to the longitudinal axis, and wherein the distal end of the shaft is
   housed within the bearing member body.
   In some forms, the electrical fitting comprises a plurality of fitting assemblies.
   Referring to Figs. 1, 2 and 3, there is shown an electrical fitting 10 for connection
10 to a mains power supply (not shown). The mains power supply may be the power
   supply installed in a residence or office and, typically, will be provided with a
   live, neutral and earth connection within standard rating cabling.
   The electrical fitting 10 as illustrated is in the form of a dual socket outlet 21, but
   it is to be appreciated that it may be an electrical switch fitting or other end of
15 wire electrical fitting (including switches, sensors, outlets or other modules). The
   fitting 10 comprises a grid 14, on which the electrical componentry (or engine) 12
   is mounted. A decorative cover 15 is also preferably provided to locate over the
   assembly 10 once installed. The electrical componentry 12 (Fig.2) typically
   includes switch modules 16, active 17A, neutral 17N and earth terminals 17E to
20 connect the fitting 10 to mains power, and socket terminals (not shown).
   The grid 14 is arranged to be mounted to a surface 101 of wall 100 (see Figs. 4
   and 5) by at least one fixing assembly 18. In the illustrated embodiment, there are
   two fixing assemblies 18 positioned at opposing sides of the grid 14. The grid 14
   has a front face 19 which overlays the surface 100 and a rear face 20 from which
25 the electrical componentry 12 is accessible. The wall 100 includes a purpose
   formed hole 102 over which the grid 14 is mounted to allow access to the fitting
    10 from behind the wall (so as to connect wiring to the fitting 10).
   In the illustrated embodiment, each fixing assembly 18 includes a bearing member
   22, an intermediate member 24, an actuator 26, and an indicator 28. Each fixing
                                                8
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   assembly extends from the rear face 20 of the grid 14 and is arranged to extend
   through the hole 102 such that the bearing member 22 is disposed behind the wall
   and arranged to bear against a rear surface 103 of the wall 100 as will be
   described in more detail below. Whilst the illustrated form of the fitting includes
 5 two independent fixing assemblies, it is understood that any number of fixing
   assemblies may be provided, and/or multiple fixing assemblies may in some
   embodiments share some components (e.g. a plurality of bearing members may be
   moved by a common actuator).
   The bearing member 22 generally includes a body 30 that extends along a
10 longitudinal axis (CL), and an arm 32 that extends transverse the longitudinal axis
   and extends from the body 30. The bearing member 22 is rotatable about the
   longitudinal axis between a released and a bearing position. In the released
   position (as shown in Fig 2), the arm 32 is disposed within the perimeter of the
   grid 14. In the bearing position (as shown in Fig. 3), the arm 32 of the bearing
15 member 22 is configured to project beyond the perimeter of the grid 14. This
   allows the arm 32 to also overlap and be in a position to bear against the rear
   surface 103 of the wall 100.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the actuator 26 is in the form of a screw that
   includes a head 29 having a drive receiving arrangement 31 and a threaded shaft
20 33. The drive receiving arrangement 31 of the head is accessible from the front
   face 19 of the grid and the shaft is engageable with the bearing member 22 and
   intermediate member 24.
   The grid 14 includes an internal wall defining an aperture 35 for receiving the
   intermediate member 24, and the actuator 26 extends along the longitudinal axis
25 CL through the aperture 35. The actuator 26 operates to rotate the bearing
   member 22 with respect to the grid between the released position and the bearing
   position. Further, when the bearing member 22 is in the bearing position, the
   actuator 26 causes longitudinal movement of the bearing member 22 with respect
   to the grid so as to move the arm 32 of the bearing member 22 into contact with
                                             9
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   the rear surface 103 of the wall 100. To achieve this longitudinal movement, the
   bearing member 22 and the shaft 33 of the actuator 26 are in threaded connection.
   In particular, the bearing member 22 includes an internal thread and the shaft
   includes a corresponding external thread.
 5 As best shown in Fig. 3, the intermediate member 24 is positioned intermediate
   the bearing member 28 and the actuator 26. As a result, the intermediate member
   24 also extends in the direction of the longitudinal axis CL.
   In the illustrated form, the intermediate member 24 which is in the form of a
   sleeve does not extend the entire length in the longitudinal direction of the body
10 30. However, the actuator 26 does generally extend the same length in the
   longitudinal direction as the body 30 of the bearing member 22. This enables the
   actuator 26 to locate within the intermediate member 24, without necessarily any
   engagement between the actuator and the intermediate member, and directly
   engage with the bearing member 22. Further, the body 30 of the bearing member
15 also houses the shaft 33 of the actuator 26 which isolates the shaft 33 from the
   electrical componentry 12 and wiring associated with the fitting 10.
   The above arrangement allows the actuator 26 to cause both the required
   rotational and longitudinal movement of the bearing member 22.
   In this regard, the intermediate member 24 extends between two opposing ends, a
20 first end 34 and a second end 36, along the longitudinal axis CL. The
   intermediate member 24 is housed at least partly by the bearing member 22. The
   first end 34 extends through the grid 14 to the front face 19, and the second end 36
   is internal the bearing member 22. As a result, the intermediate member 24 has an
   external surface that contacts an internal surface of the bearing member 22. The
25 internal surface of the bearing member 22 and the external surface 24 of the
   intermediate member 24 are cooperating engaging surfaces that interengage to
   inhibit the intermediate member 24 from rotating relative to the bearing member
   22 about the longitudinal axis. In the illustrated embodiment, the cooperating
   engaging surfaces are keyed surfaces in the form of cooperating flat surfaces that
                                              10
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   extend along the longitudinal axis CL. This arrangement prevents relative
   rotational movement between the intermediate member 24 and bearing member
   22 but allows relative longitudinal movement.
   The first end 34 of the intermediate member 24 is profiled to include one or more
 5 engaging surfaces 38 which engage one or more complementary engaging
   surfaces 40 of the of the grid 14 to prevent rotation of the intermediate member
   24 in one direction beyond a position which corresponds to the bearing member
   22 being in the bearing position. The actuator 26 is rotated in one direction (e.g.,
   clockwise from the front face) to rotate the bearing member 22 from the released
10 position to the bearing position. The profiled first end of the intermediate member
   is in the form of a projection 38. The aperture 35 is shaped to include a slot 42 to
   allow for the rotation of the bearing member between the released and the bearing
   positions, and the internal wall of the aperture 35 includes one of the one or more
   engaging surfaces 40. In use, the projection 38 is configured to engage the one or
15 more engaging surfaces 40 of the aperture 29 such that when the bearing member
   22 reaches the bearing position, both the intermediate member 24 and the bearing
   member 22 are restrained from further rotation by abutment of the projection 38
   on the one or more engaging surface 40 of the internal wall of the aperture of the
   grid.
20 The first end of the intermediate member 24 is also visible from the front face of
   the grid and includes the indicator 28. The indicator 28 is in the form of a tab 58
   which rotates with the intermediate member 24 (and therefore the bearing member
   22) and indicates when the bearing member 22 is in the released and the bearing
   positions by aligning with appropriately designed indicia 45 on the grid 14 (which
25 in the illustrated form is padlocks shown in an unlocked and locked form).
   Once the bearing member 22 reaches the bearing position, the projection 38 and
   the surface 40 are engaged. Continued rotation of the actuator 26 in the same
   direction does not cause further rotation of the bearing member and the
   intermediate member. Instead, as a result the threaded connection between the
                                             11
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   bearing member 22 and the actuator 25, the continued rotation of the actuator 26
   in the one direction causes activation of the threaded engagement between the
   bearing member and actuator (by virtue of the relative rotation therebetween).
   This causes the bearing member 22 to move longitudinally in relation to the
 5 actuator 26 and intermediate member 24. This longitudinal movement draws the
   bearing member down into engagement with the rear surface 103 of the wall 100.
   The actuator 26 is inhibited from rotating any further in the one direction once the
   arm 32 of the bearing member 22 contacts the surface 103. The arm 22 of the
   bearing member 22 presses up against the surface 103 to fix the fitting 10 against
10 the surface.
   Rotation of the actuator 26 in the opposite direction will move the bearing
   member 22 in the reverse longitudinal direction to a position where the bearing
   member is then free to move to the released position (as the bearing member
   clears flange 50 as will be described below). In the released position, the
15 electrical fitting may be removed from the wall 100.
   Each fixing assembly 18 also includes a support member in the form of a flange
   50 which supports the bearing member 22 in the bearing position. The flange 50
   extends from the rear face 20 of the grid 14 proximal to the bearing member 22,
   intermediate member 24 and actuator 26. The flange 50 also includes one or more
20 gussets 52 which provide additional support to the flange to strengthen the
   reinforcement provided by the flange 50 to the bearing member 22. The flange 50
   is generally trapezoidal and plate-shaped.
   Aside from providing support to the bearing member 22 to prevent it from
   collapsing inward when tightened against the rear surface 103, the flange
25 additionally prevents rotation of the bearing member from the bearing position
   when the bearing member is screwed down into engagement with the rear surface
    103 of the wall 100. In this regard, the bearing member 22 is profiled to include
   securing surfaces 54 which align with complementary securing surfaces 56 on the
   flange to restrain rotation of the bearing member 22 in the bearing position. The
                                              12
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   securing surfaces 54 of the bearing member 22 are in the form of edge surfaces
   adjacent a lower cut-out at a first end of the bearing member 22. The
   complementary securing surfaces 56 of the flange 50 are in the form of concave
   channels which are configured to receive the securing surfaces 54 of the bearing
 5 member.
   Prior to actuation, the bearing member 22 is disposed above the flange 50 in the
   released position. In this position, the bearing member cannot be screwed down
   by the actuator as the bottom of the bearing member would engage against the top
   of the flange 50. However, on movement of the bearing member 22 from the
10 released position to the bearing position, the securing surfaces 54, 56 move into
   alignment allowing the required longitudinal movement. When the bearing
   member undergoes the longitudinal movement, the securing surfaces 54 of the
   bearing member move into facing relation with the securing surfaces 56 of the
   flange 50. When in this facing relation, the bearing member is inhibited from
15 rotating from the bearing position.
   A method of installation will now be discussed in relation to Figs. 4 to 10.
   Fig. 4 shows the fitting 10 being presented to the wall 100. Each bearing member
   22 is in the released position and each indicator 28 indicates that the respective
   bearing member 22 is in the released position by the tab 28 being aligned with the
20 unlocked symbol. In this position the arms 32 of the bearing members 22 are
   within the perimeter of the grid 14, thereby enabling the fixing assemblies to be
   located through the hole 102.
   Fig. 5 shows the fitting 10 positioned in the hole 102 in the wall 100. The grid 14
   and the wall 100 are shown in phantom to show the position of each bearing
25 member 22 behind the wall 44 when viewed from in front of the wall 44. Visible
   from the front surface of the grid 14 in front of the wall 44 is the indicator 28,
   which indicates that each bearing member 22 is in the released position. Fig. 6
   illustrates the location of the fitting 10 against the wall from the rear surface 103
   of the wall 100. The electrical componentry 16 is accessible from of the rear of
                                                13
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   the wall 100 and each bearing member 22 is in the released position behind the
   wall.
   Figs. 7 and 8 show the fitting 10 installed in the hole 26 in the wall 100 in the
   released position ready to be secured to the wall 100 by the fixing assemblies 18.
 5 Fig. 7 shows each tab 58 of the respective indicator 28 pointing to the unlocked
   symbols on the decorative cover 15. This indicates that behind the wall 100, each
   bearing member 22 is in the released position. Fig. 8 shows each arm 32 of each
   bearing member 22 within the hole 102 of the wall 100 in its released position.
   While each bearing member 32 is in the released position, the arm 32 is
10 positioned to allow for easy insertion of the electrical fitting in the hole 102 of the
   wall 100 by overlaying the grid 14.
   Figs. 9 and 10 show the fitting 10 mounted and fixed to the wall 100. Fig. 9
   shows each tab 58 of each indicator 28 pointing to the locked symbols on the face
   cover 15. This indicates that behind the wall 100, each bearing member 22 is in
15 the bearing position. Fig. 10 shows each arm 32 of each bearing member 22
   overlapping the grid 14 and the inside of the wall 100. In this position, each
   bearing member 22 inhibits the fitting 10 from being removed from the wall 100.
   Each bearing member 22 of the fixing assembly is in frictional engagement with
   the rear surface 103 of the wall 100 to mount the fitting 10 to the wall 100.
20 To move the bearing members 22 from the position shown in Figs. 7 and 8,
   merely require rotation of the actuator screws 26, by a suitable tool (such as a
   Phillips head screwdriver) engaging the drive 31 on the actuator head 29. The
   first part of the rotation causes the associated bearing member to move from the
   released position to the bearing position and the indicator 28 to move to the
25 locked position. This occurs by virtue of the threaded engagement between the
   bearing member and the actuator and because there is no significant resistance to
   prevent rotation of the bearing member thus the bearing member rotates with the
   actuator. Continued rotation of the actuator 26 causes the bearing member to be
   drawn down the actuator shaft 33 into engagement with the rear surface 103 as,
                                               14
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

   when in the bearing positon, further rotation of the bearing member is inhibited
   thus causing relative rotation between the bearing member and the actuator.
   Advantageously, the fixing assembly 18 provides for easy installation without
   requiring the use of specialised brackets. The design of the fixing assembly 18 of
 5 the fitting also allows for quick visual inspection to confirm the bearing members
   are in their correct position for fixing. The incorporation of a support member to
   assist in maintaining the bearing members in correct alignment under load and the
   encapsulation of the actuator in the bearing body assist in enhancing the
   performance of the fitting in use.
10 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the
   stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
15 various embodiments of the invention.
   Variations and modifications may be made to the parts previously described
   without departing from the spirit or ambit of the disclosure.
20
                                              15
   9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

                                                    CLAIMS
       1. An electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing assembly, the
             grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front face and
             a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising:
                            a bearing member extending from the rear face of the grid and
             arranged to locate behind the surface, the bearing member being rotatable
             about a longitudinal axis between a released and a bearing position;
                            an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid and
             being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
             rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released
             position and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the
             bearing position, to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member
             with respect to the grid so as to move the bearing member into contact
             with a rear wall of the surface; and
                            an indicator visible from the front face of the grid to indicate when
             the bearing member is in the bearing position.
      2. An electrical fitting according to claim 1, wherein rotation of the bearing
             member from the bearing position is inhibited in at least one direction.
      3.     The electrical fitting according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the actuator rotates
             in a first direction to allow the bearing member to move from the released
             position to the bearing position and to cause the longitudinal movement of
             the bearing member.
      4.     The electrical fitting according to any preceding claim further comprising
             an intermediate member positioned intermediate the bearing member and
             the actuator.
                                                      16
9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

       5. The electrical fitting according to claim 4, wherein the intermediate
             member is inhibited from rotating relative to the bearing member about the
             longitudinal axis by engagement of the bearing member with the
             intermediate member.
       6. The electrical fitting according to claim 5, wherein the bearing member
             and the intermediate member have cooperating engaging surfaces that
             interengage to inhibit rotation of the bearing member relative to the
             intermediate member.
       7. The electrical fitting according to any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein, the
             bearing member is movable in relation to the intermediate member in the
             direction of the longitudinal axis, and the bearing member moves relative
             to the intermediate member under said longitudinal movement.
       8. The electrical fitting according to any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the
             intermediate member is profiled to include one or more engaging surfaces
             which engage one or more complementary engaging surfaces of the grid
             when the bearing member is in the bearing position to inhibit rotation of
             the intermediate member in at least one direction.
       9. The electrical fitting according to any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the
             indicator is disposed on the intermediate member.
       10. The electrical fitting according to any one of the preceding claims,
             wherein the bearing member is in threaded engagement with the actuator
             so as to enable said longitudinal movement under rotation of said actuator.
       11. The electrical fitting according to any one of the preceding claims,
             wherein the bearing member comprises a body that is engageable with the
             actuator and an arm that extends outwardly the body transverse to the
             longitudinal axis.
                                                17
9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

       12. The electrical fitting according to claim 11 wherein when in the released
             position, the arm is disposed within the perimeter of the grid, and when in
             the bearing position, the arm projects beyond the perimeter of the grid.
       13. The electrical fitting according to any one of the preceding claims,
             wherein the or each fixing assembly further comprises a support member
             which extends from the rear face of the grid, the support member being
             operative to support the bearing member to maintain its alignment relative
             to the longitudinal axis.
       14. An electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing assembly, the
             grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front face and
             a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising:
                            a bearing member extending from the rear face of the grid and
             arranged to locate behind the surface, the bearing member being rotatable
             about a longitudinal axis between a released and a bearing position;
                            an actuator being accessible from the front face of the grid and
             being engageable with the bearing member, the actuator being operative to
             rotate the bearing member with respect to the grid between the released
             position and the bearing position and, when the bearing member is in the
             bearing position, to cause longitudinal movement of the bearing member
             with respect to the grid so as to move the bearing member into contact
             with a rear wall of the surface; and
                            a support member which extends from the rear face of the grid, the
             support member being operative to support the bearing member to
             maintain its alignment relative to the longitudinal axis.
       15. The electrical fitting according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the support
             member has at least one support surface that cooperates with a
                                                      18
9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

             complementary support surface of the bearing member to support the
             bearing member.
       16. The electrical fitting according to claim 15, wherein the bearing member
             support surface moves into facing relation with the support surface of the
             support member on said longitudinal movement.
       17. The electrical fitting according to claim 15, wherein, when in facing
             relation, the support surface of the support member inhibits rotation of the
             bearing member.
       18. The electrical fitting according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the
             the support member inhibits the longitudinal movement unless the bearing
             member is in the bearing position.
       19. The electrical fitting according any preceding claim, wherein the actuator
             is in the form of a threaded screw having a shaft and a head including a
             drive receiving arrangement.
      20. The electrical fitting according to claim 19, when dependent on claim 11,
             wherein the distal end of the shaft is housed within the bearing member
             body.
      21. An electrical fitting comprising a grid and at least one fixing assembly, the
             grid being arranged to be mounted to a surface and having a front face and
             a rear face, the or each fixing assembly comprising:
                            a bearing member extending from the rear face of the grid and
             arranged to locate behind the surface, the bearing member being rotatable
             about a longitudinal axis between a released and a bearing position;
                            an actuator being in the form of a screw having a shaft and a head
             including a drive receiving arrangement, the head being accessible from
             the front face of the grid and the shaft being engageable with the bearing
                                                       19
9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

             member, the actuator being operative to rotate the bearing member with
             respect to the grid between the released position and the bearing position
             and, when the bearing member is in the bearing position, to cause
             longitudinal movement of the bearing member with respect to the grid so
             as to move the bearing member into contact with a rear wall of the surface;
             and
                            the bearing member comprises a body and an arm that extends
             outwardly from the body transverse to the longitudinal axis, and wherein
             the distal end of the shaft is housed within the bearing member body.
      22. The electrical fitting according to any one of the preceding claims
             comprising a plurality of fitting assemblies.
                                                   20
9829124_1 (GHMatters) P104568.AU.1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

