            Systems and Methods for a Graphical Interface including a Graphical
                                Representation of Medical Data
                                          ABSTRACT
        This disclosure describes systems and methods for a graphical interface including a
graphical representation of medical data. The graphical interface platform may receive medical
data and provide medical safety reporting capabilities including reporting of history data and
real-time visual monitoring data. The graphical interface platform may be configured to identify
potential problems and corrections to medical devices in operation while a reporting cycle is
underway through visual representation of performance metrics.

                                                     1
            Title: Systems and Methods for a Graphical Interface including a Graphical
                                    Representation of Medical Data
                                     RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2012299169, a National Phase Entry of International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2012/051300, filed on 17 August 2012. International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2012/051300 claims priority from US Patent Application Nos. 61/525418, filed on 19
August 2011 and 13/588026, filed on 17 August 2012. Australian Patent Application No.
2012299169 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                 FIELD
        This disclosure relates to representations and processing of medical data, and more
particularly to, examples of graphical and textual displays of medical equipment data and data
pertaining to a subject receiving treatment, monitoring or undergoing testing with electronic
medical equipment.
                                            BACKGROUND
        Individual medical decision support platforms generally function independently without
relying on performance optimizations derived from population specific data that is routinely
collected. For example, decision support platforms may aggregate information into databases,
but generally do not integrate the information or leverage knowledge gained to adapt and
optimize therapy management rule sets and parameters to produce enhanced patient safety and
patient outcomes.
        A dashboard or user interface that adapts to user needs and provides information for
treating patients in the presence of comparative analysis data with population performance under
similar therapy rule sets and conditions may provide information useful to set alarms on outliers,
and to flag outliers to staff for further investigation of inadequate response to therapy, for
example.
        Thus, an object of the present invention is the provision of a graphical user interface or
dashboard system and methods that are useful to users or clinicians at various different levels in
one or more healthcare facilities to monitor, manage and improve patient therapy conducted with
electronic medical equipment.
        This and other objects of the present invention will be apparent from the figures and the
description that follows.

                                             SUMMARY
        This disclosure may disclose, inter alia, systems and methods for a graphical interface
including a graphical representation of medical data such as medical equipment data and data
pertaining to a subject receiving treatment, monitoring or undergoing testing with electronic
medical equipment.         The systems and methods provide real-time, near real-time,        and
summarized or trended historical information and analysis tools to various levels of interested
parties in a healthcare environment.
        Any of the methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on
a non-transitory, computer readable medium, that when executed by a computing device,
perform functions of the method. In some examples, each function may represent a module, a
segment, or a portion of program code, which includes one or more instructions executable by a
processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code
may be stored on any type of computer readable medium, for example, such as a storage device
including a disk or hard drive. In addition, methods described herein may include one or more
operations, functions, or actions that can be performed in a sequential order, performed in
parallel, and/or in a different order than those described herein.
        Further embodiments may also include articles of manufacture including a tangible
computer-readable media that have computer-readable instructions encoded thereon, and the
instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.
        The computer readable medium may include non-transitory computer readable medium,
for example, such as computer-readable media that stores data for short periods of time like
register memory, processor cache and Random Access Memory (RAM). The computer readable
medium may also include non-transitory media, such as secondary or persistent long term
                                                   2

storage, like read only memory (ROM), optical or magnetic disks, compact-disc read only
memory (CD-ROM), for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile
or non-volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer
readable storage medium, for example, or a tangible storage medium.
         In addition, circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in
processes or methods described herein.
         In still other examples, functions described herein may be provided within a graphical
interface platform. In these examples, the graphical interface platform may include a graphical
user interface (GUI). A processor may execute software functions to create a data layout, and
additional charts or graphs, on a display device.       The display device may be configured to
illustrate the graphical user interface, which may be configured to enable a user to analyze
medical data in a visual display and accepts user inputs/instructions to illustrate selected data in a
desired manner.
         The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.
In addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further
aspects, embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the
following detailed description.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         Figure 1 illustrates an example system for receiving, processing, and providing medical
data.
         Figure 2 is a block diagram of an example graphical interface platform.
         Figure 3 illustrates an example screen shot of a configuration of a graphical interface.
                                                  3

        Figure 4 illustrates an example screen shot of data in a graphical interface in a Graph
Simple form.
        Figures 5-6 illustrate an example screen shot of the graphical interface shown in Figure 4
with additional associated information.
        Figure 7 illustrates an example screen shot of data in a graphical interface in a more
detailed "drilled down" graphical format.
        Figure 8 illustrates an example screen shot of the graphical interface shown in Figure 7
with additional associated information.
        Figure 9 illustrates an example screen shot of data compiled, sorted and ranked in a
tabular format.
        Figure 10 illustrates an example screen shot of detailed "drill down" information
associated with the interface in Figure 9.
        Figure 11 illustrates an example screen shot of the interface in Figure 9 filtered according
to a date range.
         Figure 12 illustrates an example screen shot of the data seen in Figure 9 in a graphical
format as a Pareto analysis chart or table.
         Figures 13A-B are example screen shots of data available under a Rule Set Optimizer
tab that shows high-level infuser information, such as drug library information for clinician
review.
         Figures 14-15 illustrate example screen shots of graphical representations indicating
real-time and historical information associated with medical devices operating and therapy
conditions. The data is filtered, compiled and displayed graphically for clinician review.
                                                 4

                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying figures,
which form a part hereof. In the figures, similar symbols typically identify similar components,
unless context dictates otherwise.      The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed
description, figures, and claims are not meant to be limiting.        Other embodiments may be
utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the scope of the subject matter
presented herein.    It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as
generally described herein, and illustrated in the figures, can be arranged, substituted, combined,
separated, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are explicitly
contemplated herein.
        This disclosure may disclose, inter alia, systems and methods for a graphical interface for
providing medical data. The graphical interface may take the form of a graphical user interface
(GUI), or of a real-time dashboard (RTD) software platform that is configurable on a user-by
user basis. The interface may be configured to provide contextually relevant data to a user. In
some examples, the data may be based on a time frame (reporting intervals), on content (e.g.,
departments or clinical care areas of a hospital), prior usage patterns, or user type (e.g.,
pharmacist, nurse, physician, or quality assurance (QA) specialist). A base interval may include
"real-time", for example, for a hospital environment in which a clinician may oversee ongoing
medication administration. As organizational rank of a user increases, time increments may be
expanded to longer (historical) periods of time to provide a higher level summary.
        In the context of this disclosure, the terms "real-time", "near real-time" and "historical"
are defined in relative terms. Real-time data is essentially current data that has been reported or
communicated within about the past five seconds from the medical device, while near real-time
                                                  5

data is current data that has been communicated within about the past five minutes, and historical
data is previously reported data that was communicated at least about five minutes ago and more
typically hours, days or longer ago. Historical data is a fairly easy concept to understand because
such data was communicated a considerable time ago and therefore does not accurately reflect
the current status of the medical device, nor the medication or patient associated with it. A user
can analyze historical data for trends and to understand past activities, occurrences or
performance, but would not believe the data to represent a current instantaneous status.
However, the distinction between real-time and near real-time data is slipperier, blurrier, much
harder to make, and depends greatly on the capabilities of the medical device, the
communication network, and the graphical interface platform software to communicate, process,
and populate all of the data on a particular graphic user interface screen or dashboard. Thus, the
term real-time as used herein should be understood to more broadly include near real-time data
as well, even when not specifically stated that way. Real-time data can be used for remote visual
monitoring via the graphical interface platform to allow clinicians to locate medical devices,
deliver medications to medical devices on a timely basis, and substantially immediately respond
to alerts, alarms and other conditions of concern from medical devices or patients connected to
the medical devices.
         In some examples, the graphical interface platform may receive medical data and provide
medical safety reporting capabilities including reporting of history data and real-time visual
monitoring data. The graphical interface may be provided through an Internet or intranet
interface, and can be made available to users on a restricted access basis.
                                                 6

        In further examples, the graphical interface platform may be configured to identify
potential problems and corrections to medical devices in operation while a reporting cycle is
underway through visual representation of performance metrics.
        The graphical interface platform may be a web-based user-by-user configurable real-time
visual monitoring platform that provides contextually relevant and actionable data to the user.
User adjustable filters can be provided to give the user an ability to drill down to identify
potential actionable corrections as a result of alarms, alerts, infusion pump status, hard/soft limit
overrides.   Features include rules and/or algorithm engine, reporting, charting, drug library
optimizer, and data aggregation of 3'd party HIT data sources, and dashboard settings, user
access and privileges can be determined based on area of use (e.g., nursing, pharmacy, or
biomed).
        Referring now to the figures, Figure 1 illustrates an example system for receiving,
processing, and providing medical data. The system includes a number of servers, such as a
picture archiving and communication system (PACS) 102, a radiology information system (RIS)
104, a medical list server (LIS) 106, a hospital information system (HIS) 108, electronic medical
records (EMR) 110, and electronic health records (EHR) 112, for example, that are coupled to a
further medical server 114.    The medical server 114 may further be coupled to a number of
medical devices 116, 118, and 120, which may include any number of devices like infusion
pumps, monitors, bedside computers, etc. The medical server 114 may be configured to receive
information from the number of servers and medical devices, and provide the information to a
graphical interface platform 122. Any number of users/clinicians, including without limitation
nurses, doctors, hospital administrators, etc., who have different data needs, may access the
                                                  7

graphical interface platform 122, and information provided on the graphical interface platform
122 can be configured accordingly.
        The medical server 114 may process received information in a number of ways, and thus,
may provide a number of functions including localized monitoring and control for hospital
created clinical care areas (CCAs), specific drug libraries and dosing recommendations based on
hospital guidelines and industry best practices, determine hard and soft dosing limits to provide
medication safety at the bedside for clinicians, allowing them to practice according to established
best practices while allowing flexibility and adjustment for special patient populations as needed.
In   addition,   within   hospital-created   guidelines,  real-time   monitoring    of  medication
administration at the bedside, and real-time verification of the "5-Rights" may be provided. In
one example, the medical server 114 may include or be configured to operate according to the
Hospira MedNetTM server suite software, provided by Hospira of Lake Forest, Illinois.
        The graphical interface platform 122 may be configured to present centralized (server
based) medical device data (e.g., infusion pump data) to provide actionable data for continuous
quality improvement (CQI) purposes to increase medication safety at the bedside and potentially
reduce or avoid ADE's (adverse drug events). An example for such actionable data is referred to
herein as an Executive Scorecard. Executive scorecards allow the clinicians (administration or
medication safety committee) to view the highlights of past medication administration ("top ten"
in different categories). Viewing these data highlights provides the clinician the ability to
investigate and target medications causing the most problems (such as the most alerts, edits and
overrides) for the clinicians or patients at the bedside. The success of resulting changes and
adjustments to clinical practice can be monitored on an ongoing basis by reviewing the
Executive Scorecard data. The graphical interface platform 122 may configure data to report
                                                  8

occurrences when safety software is not being used and/or an alarm or alert is triggered
(allowing for real-time intervention by the clinician at the bedside), identify alarm, alert or limit
overrides, identify trends in clinical practice (how doctors are prescribing medications and how
nurses are administering them), configure and optimize a "drug library" and rule sets that govern
acceptable parameters related to a given medication/concentration in a specific clinical care area
or CCA, or provide decision support/optimization tools for "smart" IV pumps. The graphical
interface platform 122 also provides the ability for the clinician to perform ad hoc data analysis
with the "drill-down" capability of the interface.
        The graphical interface platform 122 may provide a Local Clinical Decision Support
System (LDSS), which may provide information for advanced management of therapy with
optional event alerting and notification and automation of decisions (e.g., therapy modification
or suspension). For example, a probabilistic model, including Bayesian Decision Trees, may be
employed, based upon prior population data, to identify specific adverse drug events, such as
hypoglycemia. The graphical interface platform 122 may provide a dashboard of information
that displays information on population behavior of patients with similar classifications or
undergoing similar clinical therapies by presenting population summaries and comparing
individual patients with relevant population outcomes.      The dashboard may allow population
comparative analysis to refine local decision support performance or produce alarms/alerts that
are meaningful with respect to indicating population outliers. Information can be presented in
real-time and may be relevant to current therapies administration. Furthermore, dashboards can
also be used to monitor measured diagnostics, therapy outcomes, and decisions of multiple
therapies decision support systems for the same patient.
                                                   9

         The medical server 114 may provide access to the graphical interface platform 122 in
real-time and via a web-interface. The graphical interface platform 122 may monitor a patient
from a perspective of applied therapy, and may further represent inputs (medication infusion),
outputs (physiological response), and medication sensitivity in a graphical manner. As a result,
clinicians can view results of therapeutic decisions in real-time and identify individuals whose
states are improving or degrading.
         Information provided by the graphical interface platform 122 may be representative of
information from Enterprise Clinical Decision Support Systems (EDSS) that can collect and
further analyze information generated by Local Clinical Decision Support Systems (LDSS), such
as glucose management or coagulation management.          The EDSS can leverage knowledge of
patient population performance under various therapy protocols to optimize the therapy rule sets
and/or probabilistic models of local decision support systems. Patient population subgroups can
be determined      from patients with similar classifications     using multiple parameters       or
characteristic of that population, for example, age, height, gender, weight, ethnicity, risk profile
and clinical indication.
         Therapy rule sets and algorithms that adapt therapy initialization using population
specific information can be optimized using information derived from databases representing the
patient population with relevant classification. Therapy initialization parameters include dose
volume, boluses, starting infusion rates, timing of diagnostics measurements and patient specific
information (e.g., demographics, medication allergies, lab values, and therapy histories).
         The graphical interface platform 122 can provide predictive capabilities based on
statistical sampling, clinical modeling and trend analysis. Comparative analysis can be made
between a specific patient performance under a therapy protocol and remaining patient
                                                 10

population subgroup on the same protocol, and alarms or alerts can indicate if this patient is an
outlier from the general population that was treated under similar conditions and protocols.
Statistical tools used to indicate outliers include box-car plots, decision trees, probabilistic
models, cluster analysis, and abstract factor analysis, for example. Outlier patients may simply
be part of a special patient population or may indicate a medication contraindication, or an
interaction between multiple medications preventing the therapy protocol from achieving its
expected effectiveness.    Patient and population information can be presented in real-time and
may be relevant to current therapies administrated. Speed to response is critical in some therapy
protocols, allowing for real-time intervention at the bedside, preventing ADE's, patient harm and
potentially saving lives.
         Quality metrics can be provided and may be indicative of effectiveness of the adopted
therapy protocols and safety metrics can also be collected to ensure therapy protocols are also
safe.
         Compliance metrics can also be collected and assess clinical practice and adherence to
established "best practice" therapy protocols; preventing adverse outcomes and ADE's. Process
control metrics such as six-sigma P-charts can be provided and may be indicative of how
reproducible the desired measured outcomes are, and deviations from expected targets and
acceptable ranges may indicate need for quality initiatives.
         In some examples, the graphical interface platform 122 enables integration of information
from multiple sources relevant to multiple therapies administered on the same patient such as
therapy outcomes, medication allergies, medication history, orders, decisions, diagnostic lab
values, vitals, etc., to allow for comprehensive dashboards to monitor and diagnose overall
patient status and coordinate interaction between individual therapy protocols administered for
                                                 11

more informed decision making.          Coordinating multiple LDSS may produce managed and
synchronized decisions to prevent undesired interactions and adverse events, optimize therapy
decisions and allow for integration and documentation of information on sources of variability to
an expected outcome of a particular LDSS.
         Dashboards can further function to integrate information from multiple data sources,
across heterogeneous hospital networks and information systems, and may aggregate and
normalize databases and information, for example, such as combining multiple allergy
definitions and vocabulary into a single standard definition (e.g., since medical terminology and
uses are predominantly not standardized). A reference vocabulary database can be used along
with a natural language processing engine to determine a context of use of terminology and
eligibility for substitution, and the dashboard may automate selection of an appropriate reference
vocabulary.
         Dashboards can be further used to measure frequency of alerts, and alert loading per
clinician, as well as workload per clinician, and average length of stay for patients as measures of
quality of care. Other quality metrics can be designed to provide close to real-time monitoring of
quality of operations. As an example, the dashboard may provide a patient event monitor that
generates an alert when a change in patient condition has been detected on a basis of estimated
internal control parameters (e.g., estimated medication sensitivity, compartmental volumes, and
opioid efficacy). In some examples, the dashboard provides a model of the patient and detects a
change in a condition of the patient on the basis of estimated internal parameters rather than
observed measurements (e.g., vitals and labs).
         In some examples, the graphical interface platform 122 may be configured to process
information exchange between a plurality of local devices performing local decision support, and
                                                  12

may benefit from population aggregated data to produce optimizations to the local decision
support as well as indicate comparatively outliers from mainstream population outcomes as early
alarms for need for intervention.
        Figure 2 is a block diagram of an example graphical interface platform 200.               The
graphical interface platform 200 includes an interface 202, a rules engine 204, a reports and
charts engine 206, a message/alert engine 208, and is coupled to a display 210.
        The interface 202 may be a web-based interface enabling access by users via the Internet
or intranet. Information provided to the display 210 may be based on a role-based view to enable
context-relevant details (e.g., by discipline and detail level), and may provide user-specified
customization of displayed data in a view.
        The rules engine 204 may be configured to generate actionable notifications based on
user-defined thresholds or internal decision models (e.g., decision trees, artificial neural network,
Markov     model, probabilistic   networks,   etc.) and route them to the user's             preferred
communication device (e.g., pager, cell phone, PDA, workstation, etc.). The reports and charting
engine 206 may be configured to run ad hoc reports based on user-defined preferences.             The
message/alert engine 208 may be configured to route actionable notifications by email, pager,
mobile phone, SMS, nurse station, central operator, etc., based on user preferences.
        The graphical interface platform 200 may provide real-time visual monitoring of safety
and operational metrics, real-time alerts that are pushed out to clinicians to enable immediate
response, and trending/early warning indicators to identify opportunities for improvement.
Information that is provided to the display 210 can be filtered based on a user customization,
such as for nursing, pharmacy, biomed, risk management/quality, information technology, etc.
Data from a number of servers (e.g., shown in Figure 1) can be consolidated to provide patient
                                                 13

pump-caregiver visibility (for example from a barcode point of care or BPOC server), real-time
location of pumps in facility (for example from a real-time location system or RTLS server),
pump utilization and inventory versus hospital census (for example from an admissions
discharge-transfer system or ADT server), pumps requiring preventive maintenance (PM) or
corrective action (computerized maintenance management system (CMMS), etc.
         Furthermore, data may be output in a form of executive scorecards to allow c-level (Chief
Information Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Nursing Officer, etc.) hospital leaders to
review actionable data, assess and leverage metrics and understand hospital performance as
related to medication safety. Hospitals may produce scorecards "on-the-fly" to identify clinical
trends in medication administration, deviations from established "best practices" - providing the
needed focus for corrective interventions, assessing the effectiveness of such interventions in an
effort to improve medication safety at the bedside and prevent ADE's and potential patient harm.
         Each of the rules engine 204, the reports and charts engine 206, and the message/alert
engine 208 may receive a set of parameters related to therapy objectives for a patient and
thresholds for all input/output and calculated variables. Each of the rules engine 204, the reports
and charts engine 206, and the message/alert engine 208 may include an input module that
receives the infusion information and diagnostic response, a calculation module that models the
input/output or I/O relationship between the medication infusion and diagnostic response, a
database for accumulating calculated parameters specific to the calculation module, a decision
module that monitors inputs, outputs and calculated parameters and detects changes in any or all
of the three categories, and an alert capability that is set when a change has occurred.
         The calculation module may include a single multivariate model, such as used with time
varying parameters or probabilistic network, that are adjusted based upon data and clinician input
                                                   14

using maximum likelihood optimization, structured optimization (e.g., genetic or hill-climbing
algorithms), an extended Kalman filter, Bayesian estimator based upon input/output data. The
calculation module may also include a mixture of single models operating in parallel. The
individual models are weighted or prioritized based upon prediction error.        In addition the
models can be used for prediction and analysis of possible outcomes. The calculation module
may further include other multiple models, in which a group of static models can be used to
identify patient responses and the group of models with a lowest prediction error through time
can be selected for analysis.
        The graphical interface platform 200 may be configured to model patient therapy and
response dynamics and detect a change in condition of the patient on the basis of internal
parameters.    The rules engine 204, the reports and charts engine 206, and the message/alert
engine 208 may provide predictions of future physiological variables and risk metrics for display
on the dashboard.      The graphical interface platform 200 may be further configured to model
therapy alternatives and select an objective that best suits the therapy objective.      Therapy
objectives can be selected based on time to reach targets or safety, such as avoiding medication
interactions, optimizing medication delivery profiles, minimizing the risk of an adverse outcome
or reducing cost of therapy.
        The graphical interface platform 200 may be configured to operate on a computing
device. Alternatively, a computing device may be configured to provide the graphical interface
platform 200. The computing device may be a personal computer, mobile device, cellular phone,
tablet computer, etc., and may be implemented to provide the graphical interface platform
including a graphical representation as shown in any of Figures 3-15 described below. In one
configuration, a computing device may include one or more processors and system memory that
                                                 15

includes one or more applications and program data. The computing device may be configured
to execute instructions to perform functions of the graphical interface platform. The instructions
may be implemented as computer program instructions encoded on a non-transitory computer
readable storage media in a machine-readable format, or on other non-transitory media or articles
of manufacture.
         Figures 3-15 illustrate example screen shots of a graphical interface platform as a
dashboard program.       In these examples, the graphical interface platform is provided as a
graphical user interface (GUI).     Thus, a processor may execute software functions to create a
data layout, and additional charts or graphs, on a display device. The display device 210 (Fig. 2)
illustrates the graphical user interface, which enables a user to analyze medical data in a visual
display and accepts user inputs/instructions to illustrate selected data in a desired manner. The
graphical user interface (GUI) may be of a standard type of user interface allowing a user to
interact with a computer that employs graphical images in addition to text to represent
information and actions available to the user.        Actions may be performed through direct
manipulation of graphical elements, which include windows, buttons, menus, and scroll bars, for
example.
         A user name and password may be required to access the dashboard program. If the
password or user is not recognized based on a database of eligible users, the user cannot continue
to the next screen.    Based on the user identification numbers, users can be assigned various
privileges and rights, which allow access to view various data with various granularities. For
example, based on organizational hierarchy, levels and qualifications of the user (e.g., bedside
nurse versus facility supervisor / charge nurse versus Chief Nursing Office or CNO versus
                                                 16

Pharmacist), different types and details of relevant information may be shown. The type and
amount of information may be customizable per user, user type, or privilege status.
        The example screen shots in Figures 3-15 illustrate medical data pertaining to infusion
pumps; however, the medical data may be related to or received from any number of other
medical devices.
        Figure 3 illustrates an example screen shot of a configuration of the dashboard.      The
dashboard includes many tabs such as: Infusion (Text), Infusion (Graph-Simple), Infusion
(Graph-Advanced), ExecScoreCard, Pareto Tables, Rule Set Optimizer, Drug Library Optimizer.
Data of the first tab ("Infusion (Text)") is illustrated in Figure 3 displaying text-based "High
level Infuser Information", such as "CCA", device type or name ("Pump Name"), Drug Library
compliance or usage ("DL in use"), "Alert Status", "Alarm Status",           high-risk medication
indication ("High-risk Med"), and "Power Status" by way of example and not limitation. In
addition, the dashboard provides "Infuser Location and Infusion Therapy Information" including
but not limited to infuser "Asset No." as shown and "Location" (not shown), as well as infusion
therapy information such as Pump Name, "Medication", "Concentration", "Dose", "Rate",
programmed volume to be infused ("VTBI"), "Volume Remaining" in the container or of the
programmed VTBI, "Rule Sets" that are being employed, etc.           A user may scan through all
pumps that are online and infusing, view real-time alerts/alarms or power status. The data in the
Alert Status and Alarm Status cells provide immediate information and feedback to the clinician,
allowing for real-time decision making and prioritization. Filters can be applied to include or
exclude certain devices, events or specific criteria. Alerts are typically informative in nature,
whereas alarms can indicate situations requiring immediate intervention to not delay therapy, i.e.,
a distal occlusion caused the device to alarm and stop the infusion. Flashing text, special
                                                 17

symbols, or colors such as red, yellow, orange, etc. can be used to better draw the user's attention
to alarms or alerts if the status is something other than "none". The delivery of high-risk
medications is specifically shown and/or highlighted on the dashboard to allow for greater focus
when monitoring medication administration for a whole unit or clinical care area. The power
status indicates if the pump is currently powered by a battery or A/C power source, and the
current amount of power or battery capacity remaining, which can be expressed as a percentage.
If the pump is currently plugged into an A/C power source, a default value of 100% is displayed
for power status, but the actual remaining capacity of the battery while it is recharging can be
displayed alternatively or in addition thereto.    The data shown on this page may be received
from Hospira MedNetTM software. The user may print this screen to a printer using the "Print"
button shown in the upper right corner area of the screen. The display of the infuser location is
pertinent in tracking devices for purposes of recall, maintenance, installation, Drug Library
update, etc. The infuser location may be useful for dispensing and delivering an additional full
IV bag to a proper pump. For example, a pharmacy may dispense another bag and deliver it to
the correct location.
         In addition, the graphical interface may associate a medical device to a patient based on a
location of the medical device and/or based on a location of the patient.    An example       screen
shot of data of the second tab ("Infusion (Graph-Simple)") is shown in Figure 4. Each icon in
the illustration may represent a medical device (e.g., an infusion pump). The icon shown in the
example of Figure 4 is a circular dot that may be filled in with certain colors, symbols, and text
or display characteristics. A circular dot is beneficial in that a great number of distinct medical
devices or pumps can be clearly shown for one or more clinical care areas in a small amount of
space on the screen. However, other icons with different shapes, colors, and text and display
                                                  18

characteristics can be utilized without detracting from the invention. The icon could be an actual
image of an infusion pump system or a simplified pictorial representation of key aspects of the
pump system such as the battery or power bus, container(s) the pump is drawing from, patient
the pump is connected to, etc.        See Figures 7 and 8 for examples of simplified pictorial
representations of a plurality of pumping systems on the dashboard. Referring again to Figure 4,
the colors and symbols on the dots convey information about a status of the infuser (e.g., green if
infuser is running, yellow if there is a medium-priority alarm/alert, red with an optional
exclamation point inside if there is a high-priority alarm/alert, blue if the infuser is on a standby
or delayed start, or gray with an optional question mark inside if the infuser is offline or not
connected to the network, etc.). The representations of the colors and symbols can be included
in a legend at a bottom of the dashboard screen, as illustrated in Figure 4. Each column may
represent an area in a hospital, which may be filtered using a pull-down menu by a user. Further
filters are provided to filter pumps to be displayed by area, medication type in general or
medication type by category (high-risk or low-risk, antibiotics, etc.), power mode (infuser
running on batteries or A/C), types of infuser (e.g., PLUM A+T M , SYMBIQ TM, LIFECARE
PCA TM,    SMITHS      MEDICAL        MEDFUSION TM,        ALARIS       MEDLEY TM,      B.   BRAUN
OUTLOOK TM , SIGMA TM, etc.), and Asset No. (and/or serial number, MAC address, IP address,
wired or wireless access node, etc.).
        Using a cursor or pointer device, hovering over a dot may provide additional information,
such as shown in Figures 5-6, including a pump's current status, ID, caregiver ID, etc. For
example, a user may hover-over an icon to cause the graphical representation to produce a pop
up screen containing more specific information on the medical device including infuser name,
whether the drug library is in use, alert status, battery life, alarm status (here an IV container or
                                                  19

bag the pump is drawing from is nearly empty), whether the infuser is infusing a high-risk
medication, if there was an alarm/alert and length of time the incident has gone unresolved, etc.
As seen in Figure 6, for example, using a mouse, a user may click-down on an icon to cause the
graphical user interface to search for more information on the medical device including asset
number, serial number, medication, concentration, dose, rate, volume to be infused (VTBI),
volume remaining, rules sets, drug library, patient identification number, caregiver information,
etc.
        An example screen shot of the "Infusion (Graph-Advanced)" tab is shown in Figure 7.
Data illustrated on this page may be filtered in the same manner as previously described. Each
line or horizontal section in the illustration may graphically represent an infusion pump (or single
infuser), and each column in the illustration may graphically represent a clinical care area or
CCA. Alternatively each line of the illustration may represent a multi-channel infusion pump
system that includes a plurality of infusers or infusion channels associated with a common
support structure or patient. Information contained graphically for each infuser on the horizontal
lines include infuser status (e.g., a green dot with optional white, right-facing triangle inside for
an infusion running, a red dot with optional square inside for infusion stopped, a red outlined
circle with optional gray fill and white "S/D" text inside for standby/delayed start, a blue dot
with an optional white "C" inside for infusion complete, and a red outlined dot with an optional
diagonal red backslash striking through a wireless symbol for infuser offline or no connection),
notification (e.g., a yellow triangle with an optional exclamation point inside for an alert such as
no drug library present or in use (this is sometimes referred to as drug library "compliance"), a
yellow up arrow indicates that the operator has overridden an upper soft limit, a yellow down
arrow indicates that the operator has overridden a lower soft limit, or pump operator , a yellow
                                                  20

diamond for low concern or priority alarms, a red diamond for high concern or priority alarms,
and a white square with an optional "i" inside for general information), and power status (e.g.,
battery images colored and shaded or proportionally filled so as to depict battery conditions such
as battery full (100% green), battery 75% remaining (75% yellow), battery 50% remaining (50%
yellow), battery 25% remaining (25% red), a battery image with a charging symbol inside to
indicate the battery is charging, a battery image with a symbol or picture of an A/C plug inside to
indicate the pump or infuser is operating on A/C).
        Each line-item representation of an infuser under a specific clinical care area indicates in
real-time the current status of the pump, container information, and battery information.         A
number of bag/container icons are used to indicate how many containers are being administered
by the infusion pump. By way of example, for a three-channel infusion pump system that can
deliver from two containers per channel in an alternating sequence or simultaneously, up to six
total bags/containers are shown in Figure 7 to graphically illustrate pump-status, alarms, alerts,
container status, etc.    Thus, infusion pumps with single pumping channels or pumps with
multiple pumping channels can be illustrated.          Information from infusion pump systems
including single or multiple channel infusion pumps in combination with other medical devices
can be illustrated as well. For example, a pump and a physiological monitor or meter such as a
pulse oximeter (SpO2), capnography (ETCO2) meter or glucometer can be included in the pump
system and illustrated by the dashboard. When multiple containers are ordered for the patient, a
graphic depiction or icon of a container in waiting can be provided above, below, or partially
behind the icon for container in use. The user can filter the information based on: clinical care
area, medication type (high-risk or low-risk), power mode (infuser running on batteries or A/C),
infuser type (e.g., PLUM A+T M , SYMBIQ TM , LIFECARE PCA TM, SMITHS MEDICAL
                                                 21

MEDFUSION TM, ALARIS MEDLEY TM, B. BRAUN OUTLOOK TM , SIGMA TM, etc.), and Asset
No. (or serial number, MAC address, IP address, wired or wireless access node, etc.).          Data
illustrated in Figure 7 is provided using graphical icons to enable an easy to use, quick, visual,
intuitive illustration of the data for a user.
         Using a pointer device, hovering over any of the icons in Figure 7 may provide additional
real-time information, such as shown in Figure 8. Hovering over an icon causes the graphical
representation to produce a pop-up screen containing more specific information on the infuser,
the wired or wireless network, the medication order, the medication in the container, or the
patient.
         An example screen shot of the ExecScoreCard tab is shown in Figure 9. Data in this
interface is more historical in nature and may be filtered per time period, per infusion pump, or
per clinical care area. The dashboard may generate the executive scorecard data from the raw
Hospira MedNetTM database.            The executive scorecard produces actionable, sorted data
providing focus in identifying medication delivery trends and clinical best practice variations and
potential issues. Categories are displayed in "Top 10" format and include medications causing
the most alerts overall, medications causing the most overrides, edits and medications causing
the most hard limit alerts. The example shown in Figure 9 displays a summary at the top for all
CCAs and all infusers for a selected period of time, which includes but is not limited to Drug
Library compliance, total number of programs, total number of alerts, overrides, edits, etc. The
example then displays the "Top 10" medications causing alerts; summarizing total programs,
alerts, % of alerts to programs, number of overrides and number of edits. If a user would like to
investigate a specific medication (in our example Propofol), clicking on the red "+" allows the
clinician to view the data related to Propofol down to the individual program and infusion level.
                                                 22

The result of this "drill down" is illustrated as a pop-up overlay in Figure 10. The user can view
each individual program involving the chosen medication (in our example, Propofol), including
alert date and time, the type of limit violated, the numeric value of the limit as well as the initial
and final dose entered by the clinician on the infusion device.     Filters allow a user to focus and
narrow metrics, namely the filters include: clinical care area, infuser type (e.g., all, PLUM    A+TM,
SYMBIQ TM ,      LIFECARE         PCA TM,   SMITHS       MEDICAL       MEDFUSION TM,          ALARIS
MEDLEY TM, B. BRAUN OUTLOOK TM , SIGMA TM, etc.), and a date-range of the report. Figure
11 is an example screen shot to filter the data by a date-range. Sorting buttons are provided at
the top of each column of data in Figure 11 to allow the user to sort the data displayed
alphabetically, alphanumerically or numerically, if desired.       It will be appreciated that such
sorting buttons are contemplated to be used on other tables of data shown in the figures and
discussed herein.
        An example screen shot of the Pareto analysis chart is shown in Figure 12. The Pareto
chart is the graphical display of the numeric data presented in the executive scorecard, showing
individual values compared to a cumulative total. Any filter that has been applied in the
generation of the executive scorecard will apply to or update the Pareto table.           Furthermore,
where the "ALL" filter has been used to generate the executive scorecard, additional filtering can
be used or enabled for the Pareto chart. For example, if the ALL CCA/ALL Infuser executive
scorecard from Figure 11 is used as the starting point, the Pareto chart in Figure 12 can be
prepared for a filtered set of "ALL CCA" data in which a SYMBIQ infusion system is the
selected infuser type. The purpose of the Pareto chart is to highlight the most important among a
(typically large) set of factors. The Pareto principle (also known as the 80-20 rule) states that, for
many events, roughly 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes. Applied to the hospital
                                                  23

environment and specifically medication administration - roughly 20% of the Medications in the
Drug Library will cause 80% of the alerts. Review of the Pareto chart will allow the user to save
time by focusing on just a few medications when investigating deviations from established best
practices. At the same time this investigation will be significant and efficient in that it will
address a large number of alerts and potential medication administration issues
        An example screen shot of the rule set optimizer tab is shown in Figures 13A-B. The rule
set optimizer filters and displays medication-related rule set entries from the drug library of one
or more selected infusers and CCAs so that a clinician can review them. A hospital/doctor can
enter limits of an amount of a drug that can be administered to provide clinicians a tool to help
improve their own environment. Rules may be provided per drug, dose, department of hospital,
etc., and may be upper/lower limits on drugs. The rule set optimizer interface may highlight
potential sources that may cause unintended edits/overrides. The user is encouraged to review
each entry carefully and make any changes as needed using a drug library editing tool such as
HOSPIRA MEDNET TM software. Such a tool can be launched from or included with the
dashboard. Rules may be provided per drug, dose, department of hospital, etc., and may be
upper/lower limits on drugs. The rule set optimizer interface may highlight potential sources that
may cause too frequent or unintended edits/overrides. Potential areas for further analysis and
improvement include: limits are inconsistent/illogical/overlap, absence of hard limits or alerts,
new drug concentration changes, overrides accepted out of habit, instances where nursing staff
are pushing drugs more moderately than recommended, etc.
        An example screen shot of the drug library optimizer tab is shown in Figure 14. The drug
library optimizer interface displays a histogram of all infusion events, each dot representing an
infusion. The clinician is able to see quickly and easily which infusions fall into the hospitals
                                                24

established "best practice" or "green" limits and identify outliers. The outliers are further rated,
plotted or spatially arranged by severity into "evaluate-yellow" and "investigate-red" categories.
A user may mouse over the dots to see event details (e.g., including a type of medication infused,
a clinical care area, an infuser asset number, a clinician and/or physician name, a date and time
when event occurred/started, a patient name, allergy information regarding the patient or the
medication, and diagnosis).
         Events shown within the "best practice" range typically indicate the clinician did not
encounter an alert when programming the infusion device. The yellow "evaluate" category
would signify soft limit alerts and the red "investigate" category signifies hard limit alerts.
Filters (such as CCA and medication) can be applied.
         Users with permission access rights may enter alphanumeric type search criteria in the
search field located in the upper right portion of the interface, e.g., as shown in the illustration in
Figure 14. For example, an asset number may be entered (i.e., W12305) for an infusion pump,
and the dashboard system may search through a database and locate the pump and data
pertaining to that pump. Once the dashboard locates the infusion pump, the dashboard may
provide the simple graphical tab view, as shown for example in Figure 15, and may indicate the
infusion pump location via a flashing arrow - pointing to the located/identified infusion pump.
The user now can hover over, or click-down to drill-down to receive desired information (e.g.,
alerts, location, asset number, serial number, etc.).
         The example interfaces shown in Figures 14-15 enable a visual representation of medical
devices operating conditions (e.g., operating within or outside of predetermined/preset limits).
The interface may be configured to provide an alert indicating which medical devices are
operating outside optimal conditions. The visual representations further illustrate icons/graphics
                                                  25

in a meaningful manner, and the icons/graphics and interface provide functionality as well. For
example, a graphical representation of icons of infusion pumps can be organized based on color
and location within the interface to provide information to a user (e.g., dots represent infusion
pumps/color indicates status, graphically show number of bags of pumps/color indicates channel
of pump, dots represent an infusion event (drug library optimizer) to illustrate pumps within
range of best practice).     Positioning of icons in the graphical representations can provide
information to a user and selection of items on or within the interface may provide additional
information about the items, such as for example, selection of an icon associated with a medical
device may return a map showing the location of the medical device and additional associated
information.
        In some examples, as shown within any of Figures 3-15, the graphical interface
representation may include a data scroll at the bottom of the interface to provide various types of
information about the hospital, user, time and date, operation of medical devices, such as trends
in Drug Library compliance, etc.
        Within examples described herein, a graphical interface platform is provided that receives
data and provides reports in real-time and on a historical or trended basis to users. The graphical
interface may be configured to determine medical devices operating outside of protocol, and may
be configured according to filter parameters. For example, ad-hoc research may be performed by
configuring filters of the graphical interface to determine operation of devices, administration of
medications, etc. As a specific example, a user may research for trending in the past twenty-four
hour period for usage of the drug heparin within a certain unit of a hospital. With regard to
operating outside of protocol, a user can determine top ten errors or adverse events within a
hospital.
                                                  26

        The graphical interface may be configured to process received data to provide trending in
real-time, such as nursing function oversight or why a dose of medication was prescribed when
outside certain protocols. In examples, the interface may enable hospital personnel to readily
identify infusion pumps that are operating outside of protocol or to identify practice trends
regarding the use of pumps.
        The graphical interface further enables CQI (continuous quality improvement) reporting,
providing actionable data to support the caregiver at the bedside, improve medication
administration safety and to avoid ADE's (adverse drug events) and potential patient harm. The
graphical interface supports the user in identifying opportunity for drug library optimization.
        The graphical interface may be further configured to provide notifications for any number
of indicators, alerts, and alarms. The notifications can be provided in an escalated manner, such
as to initially provide the notification to the bedside nurse, then to the charge nurse, then to the
house or facility supervisor, etc.
        The graphical interface may be further configured to enable searching for data, such as to
search for a specific medical device and return a location of the device, information associated
with use of the device, etc. The graphical interface may receive data from a number of systems
in a hospital, and provide information related to census and patient acuity, ensuring the correct
distribution and availability of infusion devices, etc.    Further, the graphical interface may be
configured to provide a two-dimensional or three-dimensional map of where a medical device is
located. The map can include graphical representations of the medical devices in a particular
area or volume of space.       The graphical representations can be relatively simple geometric
shapes such as dots, triangles or rectangles representing different medical devices or they may be
digital or holographic images of the medical devices.           As described herein the graphical
                                                  27

representations of the medical devices on the map can be equipped with colors, text, symbols or
other display characteristics that provide additional information, including but not limited to
battery/AC status, alert/alarm status, no connection status, etc.
         The graphical interface may be accessible via the Internet, an intranet or other web-based
application.    The graphical interface may be configured as shown in any of the examples
described herein to provide a graphical representation of medical devices in which the graphical
representation indicates information about the medical devices using color, icons, location of
graphics, etc.
         Within examples described herein, a graphical interface platform is provided that
illustrates a number of types of information. Components of the graphical interface platform
may be customizable in a drag/drop manner, such that components of the graphical interface
platform include modules for display. For example, drag-and-drop includes action of (or support
for the action of) selecting an object and dragging the object to a location in the interface or onto
another object.     Objects to be selected may include components of the graphical interface
platform. The components of the graphical interface platform include any of the illustrations
within Figures 3-15. For example, components may include the high-level infuser information
shown in the table in Figure 3, the columns of graphical illustrations shown in Figures 4-8 and
Figure 15, the executive scorecard tables shown in Figures 9-11, the Pareto table or chart shown
in Figure 12, the rule-set optimizer information tables shown in Figures 13A-B, or the columns
of data as illustrated in Figure 14. Thus, the graphical interface platform may be customizable to
illustrate any number or combination of data as shown in any of Figures 3-15, for example.
         It is further contemplated that the dashboard or graphical interface platform can be
arranged to be customizable or configurable by the user to define the screens and screen content
                                                 28

they find most relevant or helpful in their role. It should also be understood that while a "Top
10" approach has been taken on some screens, one or more approaches selected from a top 3, 5,
15, 20, 25, 50 or 100 approach could be implemented instead or as well.
        It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example
only. As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements
(e.g. machines, interfaces, functions, orders, and groupings of functions, etc.) can be used
instead, and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results.
Furthermore, many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be
implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components, in
any suitable combination and location.
        While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein, other aspects and
embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments
disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting, with the true
scope being indicated by the following claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which
such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
        Since many modifications, variations, and changes in detail can be made to the described
example, it is intended that all matters in the preceding description and shown in the
accompanying figures be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. Further, it is
intended to be understood that the following clauses (and any combination of the clauses) further
describe aspects of the present description.
                                                 29

                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
        1.      A method comprising:
        receiving real-time data associated with operation of medical devices;
        processing the data to determine medical devices operating within and outside of
predetermined conditions; and
        providing on a display a graphical representation of operations of the medical devices,
wherein the graphical representation includes an indication of one of medical devices operating
within the predetermined conditions, medical devices operating outside of the predetermined
conditions, and medical devices operating in a manner which indicates a potentially harmful
physiological condition of a patient associated with the medical devices.
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of a given medical device includes
a least one icon, and wherein the graphical representation of operations of the medical devices
includes a histogram of said at least one icon.
        3.      A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions
executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions
comprising:
        receiving real-time data associated with operation of medical devices;
        processing the data to determine medical devices operating within and outside of
predetermined conditions; and
                                                 30

        providing a graphical representation of operations of the medical devices, wherein the
graphical representation includes one of an indication of medical devices operating within the
predetermined conditions, medical devices operating outside of the predetermined conditions,
and medical devices operating in a manner which indicates a potentially harmful physiological
condition of a patient associated with the medical devices.
        4.      A method comprising:
        receiving real-time data associated with operation of medical devices;
        processing the data to determine medical devices operating within and outside of
predetermined conditions; and
        providing a graphical representation of operations of the medical devices, wherein the
graphical representation is configured to have rows and columns, wherein each column includes
information related to a given clinical care area and each row of a given column includes
information related to a given medical device located in the given clinical care area, wherein the
information related to the given medical device includes an indication of the operation of the
medical device and an indication of a number and status of IV bags associated with the medical
device.
        5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the information related to the given medical
device includes graphical icons, and wherein a color of the graphical icons indicates a status of
the medical device.
                                                 31

        6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the graphical icons are selectable to cause
information retrieval functions to be performed and real-time data regarding the operation of the
medical device associated with the selected graphical icon to be displayed.
        7.      The method of claim 4, wherein the medical devices include infusion pumps and
an indication of the number of IV bags associated with the medical device includes graphical
icons, and wherein a color of the graphical icons indicates a channel of the infusion pump to
which the IV bag is associated, and wherein the graphical icons representing the IV bags are
colored so as to illustrate a current percentage filled condition of the IV bags.
        8.      A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions
executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions
comprising:
        receiving real-time data associated with operation of medical devices;
        processing the data to determine medical devices operating within and outside of
predetermined conditions; and
providing a graphical representation of operations of the medical devices, wherein the graphical
representation is configured to have rows and columns, wherein each column includes
information related to a given clinical care area and each row of a given column includes
information related to a given medical device located in the given clinical care area, wherein the
information related to the given medical device includes an indication of the operation of the
medical device and an indication of a number and status of IV bags associated with the medical
device.
                                                   32

         9.      A method of monitoring and managing medical devices, the method comprising:
         receiving real-time data associated with operation of medical devices, the data including
at least one current condition associated with operation of the medical devices;
         processing the data to generate a display of the at least one current condition associated
with operation of the medical devices; and
         providing on the display a graphical representation of at least some of the medical
devices, wherein the graphical representation conveys summary information by including a
visual indicator of the at least one current condition and is drill-down activatable for a given
medical device such that when activated detailed information from the received real-time data is
displayed for the given medical device.
         10.     The method of claim 9, further comprising a step of displaying on the display at
least one menu that allows a clinician/viewer to selectively filter the graphical representations to
be displayed using a display filter selected from a group of display filters consisting of clinical
care area, medication, medical device power mode, medical device and asset number.
         11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the display filter includes multiple display
settings and includes a display setting that is all inclusive.
         12.     The method of claim 9, further comprising a step of displaying on the display at
least one menu that allows a clinician/viewer to selectively filter the graphical representations
without first selecting a patient from the display.
                                                   33

        13.     The method of claim 9, wherein the activation of the graphical visual
representation is accomplished by one of hovering a cursor over the graphical visual
representation and clicking a cursor while the cursor is positioned on the graphical visual
representation.
        14.     The method of claim 9, wherein the graphical representation a given medical
device includes a least one icon.
        15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one icon is a circular dot.
        16.     The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of:
        accumulating the real-time data received over time so as to form historical data;
        displaying a selectable tab for generating historical reports accessible on the display that
has a graphical visual representation of at least some of the medical devices;
        when the selectable tab is activated by the clinician/viewer, providing on the display a
time period selection menu for a clinician/viewer to use to define a time period of interest; and
        generating on the display an ad hoc historical report relating to the operation of medical
devices during the time period of interest based upon the historical data.
        17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the time period selection menu is provided as a
drop-down menu that allows the clinician/viewer to selectively define the time period of interest
as a time period selected from a group of time periods consisting of an hour, a series of
consecutive hours, a portion of a predefined work shift, a predefined work shift, a day, a series of
consecutive days, a week, a series of consecutive weeks, a month, a series of consecutive
                                                  34

months, a quarter, a year, a series of consecutive years, and from a given beginning date to given
ending date.
        18.    The method of claim 16, wherein the summary information, the detailed
information and the selectable tab for generating historical reports are all provided on a first
screen of the display and are thereby initially accessible to the clinician/viewer without requiring
navigation to a second screen.
        19.    The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one condition is one of medical
devices operating within the predetermined conditions, medical devices operating outside of the
predetermined conditions, and medical devices operating in a manner which indicates a
physiological parameter of a patient deviating from a therapy goal.
                                         ICU Medical, Inc
                                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                  35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
