                                          ABSTRACT
  A system and method are set forth for providing a configurable player tracking module
  display for a gaming device which is controlled to change colors/text/graphics to indicate the
  condition of (1) the gaming device, (2) the interface between the player of the gaming device
5 or (3) the player tracking system.
  10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4

           IMPROVED PLAYER TRACKING MODULE SYSTEM AND METHOD
                                     RELATED APPLICATION
   This application is a divisional application of Australian application number <removed-apn>,
 5 which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application number 2014203821,
   which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application number 2012201053,
   which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application number 2007292282. The
   disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10 The present invention relates to a player tracking system for tracking the play of customers
   (e.g., players of game devices) at casinos, and more particularly relates to a player tracking
   system, method and apparatus which provides an interface between the player (and/or
   Casino staff) and a central computer system, or the like.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15 In the casino industry, player tracking and slot machine accounting systems are known. To
   facilitate player tracking, a player tracking module (PTM) is housed in a gaming machine.
   The PTM typically includes a card reader, a keypad and a display. The card reader receives a
   player card and reads the player information coded on the card. A card receiving slot of the
   card reader has a bezel which surrounds the slot. The bezel is lighted and provides a color
20 indication of the operation of the card reader. Such a module is described in U.S. Patent
   6,162,122.
   When a player inserts his/her issued player tracking card (sometimes also referred to as a
   player loyalty card) into the reader slot, the reader reads a code (magnetic, photo-optic, or
   the like) from the card and then communicates with a computer having a player tracking
25 system in order to access the player's account information. As the player plays the slot
   machine, loyalty "points" are accumulated into the player's account which can be redeemed
   or used for various purposes including promotions, player "comps", cash back and the like.
   The '122 patent describes a lighted bezel which can be lighted in a limited number of colors,
   e.g. two primary colors and a combination color such as red and yellow with the
30 combination color being orange to denote various states including the operation of the card
   reader, e.g. card read or card not read.
                                                     1
                                                                          10291804_1 (GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   In U.S. Patent 6,908,387, a player tracking mechanism housed in a gaming machine includes
   lights adjacent to the display and the card reader slot. A controller activates the lights (or
   portions thereof) in particular colors to convey information. The gaming machine of the '387
   patent also includes a speaker.
 5 A drawback of these prior systems is that the amount and variety of information which can
   be conveyed by the bezel or display "framing" lights is limited, and thus limits the utility of
   such features. The variety of colors which may be used to convey information is also limited
   by a variety of factors. For example, the physical size of these lights may not provide colors
   which can easily be interpreted from a distance, particularly where pale shades of colored
10 light or pastel shades of colored light are used. If different colors are desired then different
   colored glass for the bezels may have to be produced.
   Providing LED clusters at the bezels may also not be a suitable design choice based upon
   the intensities, colors and reliability, given the fact that the surface area of the lights is
   relatively small. Further, using bezels requires the manufacturer or customer to maintain an
15 inventory of replacement bezels and lights. Still further, circuitry and controls for the lights
   are required, which (1) competes for already precious space in the gaming machine and (2)
   provide additional points for failure or defects. Reconfiguration of the LED clusters or lights
   or bezels would require many components and man-hours of time.
   A drawback to reliance upon a speaker to convey information is that a casino floor tends to
20 be a noisy environment. Raising the volume of the player tracking system based speaker
   above the casino floor din, can annoy surrounding players. Lowering the volume can result
   in the audio messages not being heard.
   It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an improved player tracking
   module display, system and method which can produce a variety of colors or patterns of
25 light.
   It is also an object of the present invention to provide a player tracking module light display
   of a size which can easily be read by floor personnel as well as by security via security
   cameras.
   It is also an object of the present invention to provide a player tracking module display,
30 which eliminates the need for an inventory of lighted bezels or lights/diodes therefor.
                                                     2
                                                                              10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   It is also an object of the present invention to provide a player tracking module display,
   system and method which is able to convey more and differing information heretofore, to
   casino personnel and to the player.
   It is a further object of the invention to provide a player tracking module display which is
 5 easily and remotely configurable.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The invention provides a system for use with a plurality of gaming devices, each device
   having a game display for displaying a game outcome, the system comprising:
            a central system;
10          a color display, separate from said gaming display, housed within each one of said
   plurality of gaming devices, for selectively displaying user-dependent inputs and receiving
   inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices, said color display controllable
   by said central system;
            a communication network connecting each of said plurality of gaming devices to
15 said central system for communicating display control data from said central system to said
   plurality of gaming devices; and
            said central system for controlling a said color display in said selected one of said
   gaming devices to display a predominant first color to indicate a first user-dependent
   condition and for controlling said color display in said selected one of said gaming devices
20 to display a predominant second color to indicate a second user-dependent condition.
   The invention also provides a system for use with a plurality of gaming devices, each device
   having a game display for displaying a game outcome, the system comprising:
            a central system;
            a color display, separate from said gaming display, housed within each one of said
25 plurality of gaming devices, for selectively displaying user-dependent inputs and receiving
   inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices, said color display controllable
   by said central system;
                                                    3
                                                                             10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

            a communication network connecting each of said plurality of gaming devices to
   said central system for communicating display control data from said central system to said
   plurality of gaming devices; and
            said central system for controlling a said color display in said selected one of said
 5 gaming devices to display a first color image to indicate a first user-dependent condition and
   for controlling said color display in said selected one of said gaming devices to display a
   second color image to indicate a second user-dependent condition.
   The invention also provides a system for a plurality of game devices, each device having a
   game display for displaying a game outcome, the system including a central processor, a
10 communication network for communication of data between the central processor and each
   game device and a data structure storing player data corresponding to each player to be
   tracked, the improvement comprising:
            said central processor configured to access said data structure;
            a color display associated with a game device for selectively displaying user
15 dependent inputs and receiving inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices,;
            an interface between the player and said central processor for communication of
   user-dependent data, said interface having a first state in which communication between the
   player and said central processor is enabled, and having a second state in which
   communication between the player and said central processor is disabled; and
20          wherein said data structure storing data corresponding to a video display mode Xi
   and a video display mode X 2 , said video display mode Xi configuring said display to display
   at least one of color, text, or graphics to indicate said first state and said video display mode
   X2 for configuring said display to display at least one of color text or graphics to indicate
   said second state.
25 The invention also provides a method in a system for a plurality of gaming devices, said
   system including a central processor, an operator-system interface for each gaming device
   and a communication network providing communication between the central processor and
   each interface, the method comprising:
            providing a digital color display associated with each interface;
30          selectively displaying at the color display user-dependent inputs;
                                                     4
                                                                              10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

            receiving inputs at the color display, from a user in response to the display of user
   dependent inputs;
            processing user-dependent data from said device and interface at said processor to
   determine one or more system communication states Xi - X, and
 5          controlling the color display to display in one or more visual modes.
   Such gaming devices may be gaming machines such as slot machines, video Poker
   machines, Keno or Bingo machines or any other electronic gaming device or terminal or
   multi-terminal gaming device. Such gaming devices may also include live table games, such
   as Blackjack, which may be interfaced with a player tracking and/or slot accounting system.
10 The player tracking and/or slot accounting system may be connected to a central processor
   or computer which may be (1) a single processor dedicated to player tracking and/or slot
   accounting or (2) a shared processor or (3) a processor separate from any player tracking
   and/or slot accounting computer processor.
   The video display may be embodied as a small, color active matrix LCD, OLED, or similar
15 display (hereafter referred to as LCD display) mounted on the device apart from the gaming
   content display and formed as a part of a player tracking module.
   In some examples, conditions may be determined wherein it would be desirable to control
   the display to display text, color, indicia or graphics in order to denote or indicate such
   conditions. These conditions may include a fault condition, a device "open door" condition,
20 a jackpot condition, a downloading/uploading data condition, a loss of network
   communications, one or more failure modes or other conditions where a visual display
   would assist or inform the player, casino personnel, security, hostess or the like.
   As a specific example, the video display may change color based upon player gaming
   activity or special promotion, may flash in a red or orange color adapted to draw the
25 attention of security during certain conditions, show graphics related to the player's
   participation in the casino loyalty club, show different colors and text in response to sensing
   the state of the interface between the player and the system, e.g. failure to read the player's
   loyalty card, indicate which games are included in a tournament, to confirm or disaffirm the
   uploading or downloading of game credits or promotional points, to change color to indicate
30 a special event such as birthdays or holidays or for any other purpose where a visual display
   is desired apart from the game content display. Broadly the video display may be controlled
   to display images selected from a from a group consisting of: (i) a plurality of varied color
   panels to convey information, (ii) graphically changing images to convey information, (iii)
                                                     5
                                                                            10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   text to convey information, (iv) graphic skins or backgrounds to convey information, or (v)
   flashing or sequencing colors, text or images to convey information as desired. The
   information conveyed may be system generated information or may be information specific
   to the player or the game they are playing. For example, the information may be to flash in a
 5 color (and text message) to indicate that a new game is being loaded into the player's gaming
   device from a source such as a central computer.
   These and other objects will become better appreciated with reference to the description,
   claims and drawings wherein:
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10 In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained, embodiments will now be
   described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a gaming device connected to several processors;
   FIG. 2 is a block diagram of one gaming device connected with several other gaming
   devices, within a system;
15 FIGS. 3 and 4 are front views of several visual displays appearing on the display of the one
   gaming device of FIGURE 2;
   FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a gaming device connected to a system processor; and
   FIG. 6 is a logic flow diagram of the method and operation of an illustrative example of the
   system of FIGURE 5.
20           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
   As shown in Figure 1, a prior art gaming device 10 is, for example, a well known stepper
   type slot machine having three reels 14 for presenting a game content display 16. To operate
   device 10, the player enters a wager (money wager, wager of accumulated credits, etc.) and
   prompts device 10 to generate and display an outcome at the content display 16. If the
25 outcome is a winning outcome, the player is awarded credits or coins/tokens/vouchers are
   dispensed. If the outcome is a losing outcome the player receives no award.
   Device 10 operates under control of a game control processor unit 18 disposed within
   housing 20 of device 10. Game control processor unit 18 accounts for the wager input,
   randomly selects the outcome of the game and controls the content display 16 to display the
                                                  6
                                                                        10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   selected outcome. Thus, data is generated which is indicative of game operational play
   parameters such as wagers, outcomes, payouts, and the like.
   Other data also may be generated for other parameters such as security (door to machine is
   opened, tampering or a "tilt" condition) or other malfunction of the device or a component
 5 thereof, a need for service, hopper or cash validator conditions, e.g. full, out or service
   condition, placing of the machine in a "hold" condition to lock it against further play such
   as, for example, to hold it while the player has a meal, participation in tournament gaming,
   participation in a promotion, that the device is a new game to the floor, or the like. Some of
   these aforesaid parameters may be reflected in data generated by the game control processor
10 unit 18 or a related processor, or may be generated by operator input or may be system
   generated.
   In a casino environment many, e.g. several thousand, gaming devices 10 are in
   communication with a slot accounting system or processor 24. Slot accounting processor 24
   receives operational parameter data (and security or other operational data) and assembles
15 the data for analysis and operation and security oversight by casino personnel.
   In addition, many casinos operate a loyalty program through which players are issued cards
   and the player's personal data is entered into a player tracking system data structure. Such
   systems are known in the art with examples such as those in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,429,361;
   6,511,377; 5,655,961 and 6,162,122. Gaming device 10 includes a player tracking module
20 12 to aid in identifying the player playing gaming machine 10.
   Players having player cards insert the card into a card reader 28. Reader 28 is in
   communication with a player tracking system or processor 22 which can access the player's
   account to store and accumulate loyalty points, to transfer funds, and the like.
   Card reader 28 includes a lighted bezel 30. LED clusters (not shown) are disposed behind
25 bezel 30 and are controlled to change the color of bezel 30 to indicate an operational mode
   of device 10 or the system. For example, the colors may indicate the following:
            Red                    Game is idle
            Flashing Red           Card insertion error
            Green                  Card inserted
30          Orange                 Game in play with no card
                                                   7
                                                                           10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

            Blue                    Hot player
            Purple                  Cashless Transaction in progress
   Card reader 28 and bezel 30 are mounted in module 12 and disposed on the front face 32 of
   housing 20. Face 32 may be fashioned from resilient plastic or from metal, and may have a
 5 height of approximately two inches and span across device 10. A drawback to bezel 30 is
   that the bezel is relatively small, being in the range of approximately two inches by one inch
   thus providing approximately only two square inches of surface area. This small surface
   restricts the range and types of colors which can be used since wide shade differences must
   be used to distinguish one color from another, and thus a plurality of operational modes
10 cannot be simultaneously displayed. A further drawback is that circuitry, logic and hardware
   must be provided to control the bezel 30 and lighting of LED clusters. This creates
   additional failure points and necessitates additional inventory for repair and replacement.
   Also disposed on face 32, is a keypad 34. Keypad 34 provides a communication interface to
   permit the player and /or casino staff to interface with the game device, or with a slot
15 accounting system processor 24 and/or player tracking system processor 22. For example,
   casino staff may enter a password or coded numbers into keypad 34 in order to override an
   alarm prior to opening housing 20, or to register a jackpot, or to put the device on standby
   for a player, or the like. In addition, a player may enter his or her personal identification
   number (PIN number) to further identification or to gain access to promotional benefits.
20 Module 12 also includes a small display 36. Display 36 maybe formed from LEDs or a flat
   touch screen display such as described in U.S. Patent 6,712,698. A central control processor
   26, or a portion thereof, controls the display of text onto display 36, and in some cases, a
   secondary game may be displayed onto display 36.
   While gaming device 10 is shown as an electro-mechanical reel-type slot machine, it should
25 be understood that device 10 may also be any type of gaming device or terminal. For
   example, gaming device 10 maybe a video slot machine, video Poker or Keno machine, a
   smart or "dumb" terminal for server based gaming, a multi-player terminal game and may
   include table games where a player tracking system interface is provided.
   Player tracking module 12 may also include a pair of speakers 40,42. Speakers 40, 42 may
30 provide audio information to the player or casino personnel.
   Referring now to FIGURE 2, a gaming system 300 includes gaming machines or gaming
   devices 10a, 10b, and 10c. Each gaming device includes a player tracking module 48.
                                                     8
                                                                            10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   Module 48 includes a high resolution, touch screen color video display 50, employing LCD,
   TFT, OLED or similar display technology. Display 50 provides rich color depth capabilities,
   typically 15-16 bit color. Display 50 may be a color LCD display, for example, and serves as
   a display for module 12.
 5 A card reader 52 presents a slot 54 to the player so as to receive a player's card. A single
   color bezel 56, e.g. lighted in a yellow color, maybe provided surrounding slot 54 to visually
   highlight slot 54 for the convenience of the player. Display 50 is relatively large, compared
   to the bezel 56. For example, display 50 is rectangular in shape, having dimensions of
   approximately two and one quarter (2.25) inches in height by six (6) inches in length.
10 System 300 also includes a system processor 302 which may be a slot accounting system
   processor, a player tracking system processor, or both, or one or more dedicated processors.
   Processor 302 is in two-way communication with each of a plurality of gaming devices 10a
   c. This communication may be wired or wireless, or a combination thereof.
   Each gaming device lOa-lOc includes a game processor 58 which controls operation of the
15 game, e.g., movement of the reels. Game processor 58 and player tracking module 48 are in
   direct or indirect two-way communication with the system processor 302. As shown,
   indirect communication is provided through a communication board 60. Processor 302 is
   also in direct or indirect communication with the display 50 for control of the display by
   processor 302. As shown, processor 302 indirectly communicates with display 50 through
20 communication board 60. For example, display 50 may have its own programmed
   microprocessor 62 for controlling the display 50 according to instructions received from
   system processor 302. Intermediate polling or signal processing may also occur between the
   processor 302 and communication board 60.
   Communication board 60 is a known component in player tracking systems, and may
25 include its own processor (not shown). See for example, U.S. Application Ser. No.
   10/938,103, and published on May 26, 2005 as Publication No. US 2005/0113172A1, is
   incorporated herein by reference, and describes such a communication board 60, i.e., a
   "smart communication interface" (SCI).
   Display 50 is located on the front face of housing 64 of the gaming device 10a, and
30 positioned thereon for direct visual communication to the player, as well as casino personnel
   in the area of game device 10a. Because of the size of display 50 and its color capabilities,
   display colors can be easily seen by casino personnel, even from a significant distance.
                                                   9
                                                                           10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   Processor 302 is configured to receive input from an operator 301, via a keyboard (not
   shown)) or a tape, intranet, internet or the like (also not shown). Special instructions input
   by operator 301 may trigger certain display modes via display 50, e.g., Holiday, promotional
   displays, or a special greeting. The operator may provide other instructions such as
 5 allocating game devices for tournament play.
   As shown in FIGURE 3, a "Happy Anniversary" greeting 66 is displayed on display 50.
   Additionally, the greeting is personalized by the display portion 68 naming the player, here
   "John." System processor 302 causes greeting 66 with its display portion 68 to appear on
   display 50.
10 As shown in FIGURE 4, an initial greeting 71 is displayed on display 50. Greeting 71
   instructs the player to insert his or her player card.
   Referring again to FIGURE 2, processor 302 also receives data from communication board
   60. Device data, such as the operational and security mode of the device 10, wagering
   activity (e.g. coin in), pay outs and the like, may be transmitted from game processor 58 to
15 system processor 302. Likewise, data from module 48, including data from card reader 48,
   or from an interface where the player is identified, for example, through radio-frequency
   identification (RFID), biometric input device, data input via a data entry point such as
   keypad or a touch screen interface defined by the display 22 may be transmitted to system
   processor 302. As shown in FIGURE 3, a touch screen keypad 70 is displayed on display 50
20 for use by the player to enter information such as the player's PIN. As will suggest itself, the
   display area next to keypad 70 may be used to provide text instructions to the player, e.g.,
   PLEASE ENTER YOUR PIN.
   Referring now to FIGURE 5, processor 302 communicates with display 50 along an
   electrical link 303, so as to control the operation of display 50. Microprocessor 62 maybe
25 separate from game processor 58 and may be dedicated solely to display 50. Microprocessor
   62 controls an image generator 72 which generates a video signal 74. Video signal 74 may
   be digital or analog, and is sent to a video controller 76 which controls the display appearing
   on display 50. As will be understood, other types of display circuitry may be utilized for
   control by microprocessor 62 to form a display on display 50. For example, the video
30 display on display 50 may be created by the programmatic display of preloaded graphical
   elements created with graphical software such as Adobe Illustrator or Photoshop software.
   Alternatively, the video displayed may be generated through the use of graphical drawing
   commands.
                                                    10
                                                                           10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   Video signal 74 is generated from prestored data in image generator 72. Such prestored data
   may be downloaded to image generator 72 from system processor 302. System processor
   302 may select the particular prestored data in image generator 72 by sending display
   command data to microprocessor 62 via communication board 60. For example, keypad 70
 5 (FIGURE 3) may be prestored in image generator 72 and retrievable by microprocessor 62.
   Processor 302 also has access to a data structure 304 which stores data such as player
   account information for each player enrolled in the property's loyalty program. Data
   structure 304 may be incorporated into the processor 302 or may be retained in a separate
   system. For each player, data structure 304 retains file information such as loyalty points
10 earned/awarded to the player, as well as personal information (e.g. name, address, spouse's
   name, birthdate). Any information that the venue thinks important for marketing,
   convenience or servicing of the player may be retained in the player's account information.
   During or before play, the player inserts his/her player card into the slot 54 and the module
   card reader 52 reads the card. A signal indicating that a card has been inserted into slot 54 is
15 sent to microprocessor 62. Microprocessor 62 may responsively present a touch keypad 70
   (FIGURE 3) onto display 50 to permit the player to enter his or her personal identification
   number (PIN) into the keypad. The data retrieved by microprocessor 62 from the card
   together with the PIN is forwarded by communication board 60 to system processor 302 for
   identification of the player. System processor 302 may then download instructions to
20 communication board 60 which in turn provides the downloaded instructions to
   microprocessor 62 for controlling display 50. For example, a prestored greeting such as 66
   (FIGURE 3) may be requested by system processor 302, and the name JOHN may be
   transmitted in data form from processor 302 for display at 68 (FIGURE 3) on display 50. As
   understood, the communication between communication board 60 and system processor 302
25 may take on different forms and protocols.
   As game device 10a is played, information is sent to processor 302 and assigned to the
   player's account in data structure 304. Typically, data may be accumulated in device 10 and
   sent intermittently to processor 302. The player's account is updated by accumulating loyalty
   points, time of play, etc. Player "win" information may also be stored for future reference.
30 If desired, system processor 302 may control display 50 to display account information on
   display 50 to the player such as the player's current amount of loyalty points. This may occur
   after card insertion and player identification has been made, hi addition, the player may
   request his or her current account information via a player interface 78.
                                                   11
                                                                           10291804_1 (GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   Player interface 78 may include an account request button, for example. In addition, player
   interface 78 may include a call button which the player may activate to signal casino
   personnel for assistance. Microprocessor 62 responds to player activation of player interface
   78 so as to provide messages on display 50. For example, the message on display 50 may
 5 read "PLEASE WAIT FOR ASSISTANCE," which is displayed after the call button is
   activated. Also, casino personnel, who may be a distance from the particular gaming device
   10, are able to send a message to display 50 of the particular gaming device via system
   processor 302.
   When system processor 302 receives a message from player interface 78, via
10 communication board 60, system processor 302 relays a message to a casino operator device
   (not shown), which may be a terminal where casino personnel are stationed or may be a
   handheld device, for example. The message to the casino operator device includes a locator
   code identifying the particular gaming device 10a, 10b, or 10c, which has caused the
   message to be sent via its player interface 78. Any reply back by the casino operator device
15 will return the locator code with the reply to system processor 302, so that system processor
   302 will send the reply to the correct game device 10a, 10b, or 10c. The reply maybe a text
   message which is displayed on display 50.
   Referring to FIGURE 6, at step 400, data from game device 10 including from card reader
   52, display 50 (e.g., from keypad 70 of FIGURE 3), player interface 78 (FIGURE 5) or data
20 from other sources, is accessed and processed by processor 302. Other sources of data to be
   processed by processor 302 may come from a remote computer, a gaming content system for
   downloading games to gaming terminals, regulators and content providers such as
   advertisers.
   In the example of FIGURE 6, it is assumed that the player has inserted his or her player
25 tracking card into card reader 52 (FIGURE 3) to obtain an interface with the system.
   Initially, the display 71 (FIGURE 4) is caused to be presented on display 50 by processor
   302. The display 71 (FIGURE 4) will be of a predominant color. For example, display 71
   will be predominantly red in color. The visual effect to a viewer will be similar to that
   achieved by looking at the video screen through a red color photographic filter. Thus,
30 "predominant color" means that the display generates one color of light that is more
   dominant in appearance than any other color of light generated by the display, such that that
   color of light is the chief color observed. Thus, the display 171 conveys desired information
   at a glance even from a significant distance. The information conveyed by the
   predominantly red color is that the player tracking is not in use.
                                                   12
                                                                          10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   However, once player tracking is initiated by the player being identified via player card
   insertion and PIN entry, processor 302 changes the video display 50 to "Greeting" display
   66 (FIGURE 2). The "Greeting" display 66 (FIGURE 2) will be of a predominant color
   different than the predominant color of display 71 (FIGURE 4). For example, "Greeting"
 5 display 66 will be predominantly blue in color. The visual effect to a viewer will be similar
   to that achieved by looking at the video screen through a blue color photographic filter.
   Thus, display 68, in addition to information of a greeting, conveys desired information at a
   glance i.e., that player tracking is in use.
   Thus, the overall hue of the video display as a whole varies in response to a particular
10 operating condition. Such a hue (or predominant color) may be changed despite the fact that
   the text does not change.
   The previous description provides an example of two separate conditions (player tracking in
   use and player tracking not in use) that are visually indicated by a glance at the display 50,
   even from a significant distance. Likewise, other conditions may be visually indicated by
15 providing a dominant color or hue of the overall display 50.
   In another embodiment, the color of a particular screen element on display 50 may be varied
   to signify a condition, such as player status. As shown in FIGURE 4, a border 73
   circumscribes the rectangular display area where text is located. Border 73 may be lighted
   gold for one condition and lighted silver for another condition. Thus, a visual element
20 common to all screens, such as a border, or such as a keyboard, text, a logo or the
   background, may be varied in color to signify a condition.
   For example, at step 400, processor 302 accesses player account data structure 304 to
   determine, at step 410, whether the player's commercial activities with the casino, e.g.
   gaming and other purchase data stored in data structure 304, has resulted in the player
25 reaching a "Gold Star" player rating status. Players may be grouped into classes for purposes
   of promotions, for example, a gold star class, a silver star class, a bronze star class, etc.
   Once the player's account is accessed, processor 302 controls display 50 to display a
   greeting such as the player's name as well as graphic information such as, for example, a star
   412 (FIGURE 6) to indicate the player's classification. Display 50 may also display a text
30 panel 414 which may display the player's points or other information. As discussed
   previously, with reference to FIGURE 3, display 50 also may be controlled to display a
   special greeting to the player.
                                                   13
                                                                            10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   Once the player has established communication with processor 302, display 50 may display
   colors to indicate various information to staff and the player. For example, the display 50
   may be controlled by processor 302 to display one color of a background 411 when the
   player is playing a certain denomination at the machine and another color for background
 5 411 when the player is playing a different denomination, e.g. green for 250 and gold for $1
   denomination. Display 50 may display another color or a color pattern as background 411
   for a machine malfunction, e.g. red and white stripes. Display 50 may be controlled to
   display a certain color or pattern as background 411 based upon the machine's expected
   performance, e.g. 99% payback machines may be identified by display 50 having a blue
10 background.
   Referring again to FIGURE 6, processor 302 may also control the display 50 to display
   color panels 416, 418 to denote that the player and/gaming device is entitled to participate in
   a special promotion. These panels may be yellow or some other distinguishing color such
   that casino personnel can easily determine participation in the promotion.
15 At step 420, processor 302 determines player and/or gaming device eligibility to participate
   in the promotion and prompts the player with a text message in area 414 of display 50 if the
   player wishes to participate, hi connection with this prompt, processor 302 controls display
   50 to display and enable a touch screen keypad 70 (FIGURE 3) defined by a plurality of
   alphanumeric or symbol based keys. To participate, the player responds and may be
20 prompted to enter a PIN number which identifies the player. The responsive inputs by the
   player control processor 302 to enter the player/gaming device in the promotion and may, at
   step 422 (FIGURE 6), control display 50 to display a transitional routine of images and
   control display 50 to signify that the player/gaming device is enrolled as by displaying
   panels 416, 418.
25 At step 424, processor 302 may control display 50 to display other information such as a
   greeting with text and graphics as shown in FIGURE 3 or a standby display 71 as shown in
   FIGURE 4. These displays are controlled to display colors and or text which can signify at a
   glance the state of the gaming device, e.g. idle or in play, malfunctioning, or in need of
   service, or enrolled as part of a special promotion or for tournament play, the state of the
30 player's interface with the system 300, e.g. player card read or not read or any other
   condition deemed appropriate.
   In certain conditions, display 50 is controlled to display colors, such as red, which can be
   easily identified by security cameras. For example, if a door to the gaming device is not
   fully closed, display 50 may be controlled to display red and white stripes such that the
                                                   14
                                                                           10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   security cameras can easily identify the machine. In addition, display 50 may be controlled
   to display ultraviolet light display or an infrared light display which may be picked up
   (monitored) by electronic devices, for example.
   In the above described embodiments, color or hue is used as the variable to denote different
 5 player, session, or system parameters, but it should be noted that any visually
   distinguishable effect, such as flashing, alternating colors, fading, or chase-light like effects,
   may also be employed to achieve desired results. The colored frame discussed in the above
   embodiment may be animated in a chase-light like manner to indicate that a cashless fund
   transfer operation is in progress, for example.
10 In another embodiment the player, session, or system parameters may dictate the actual
   images being displayed as well. Again referring to the example where players may be placed
   in tiers according with their level of play at a specific property (or group of properties),
   silver players may be shown advertising images for the property's buffet restaurant, for
   example, while gold players may be shown advertisements for the property's higher-end
15 steakhouse restaurant.
   In yet another embodiment, a dramatic visual effect such as flashing or screen shaking may
   be employed to attract the player's attention following a significant player, session, or
   system event such as advancing to the next tier in the player club, qualifying for a special
   bonus or prize, or winning a system-based mystery jackpot. A method similar to the screen
20 shaking simulation for the main game screen as taught by U.S. Patent No. 6,837,790
   (Kaminkow), for example, may be useful in this situation.
   While certain embodiments of the present invention have been described, it should be
   understood that these embodiments are subject to many modifications and changes without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
25 It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
   does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
30 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
   of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                    15
                                                                              10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

                                              CLAIMS
   1.      A system for use with a plurality of gaming devices, each device having a game
   display for displaying a game outcome, the system comprising:
           a central system;
 5         a color display, separate from said gaming display, housed within each one of said
   plurality of gaming devices, for selectively displaying user-dependent inputs and receiving
   inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices, said color display controllable
   by said central system;
           a communication network connecting each of said plurality of gaming devices to
10 said central system for communicating display control data from said central system to said
   plurality of gaming devices; and
           said central system for controlling a said color display in said selected one of said
   gaming devices to display a predominant first color to indicate a first user-dependent
   condition and for controlling said color display in said selected one of said gaming devices
15 to display a predominant second color to indicate a second user-dependent condition.
   2.      The system of claim 1 wherein said central system commands display of at least one
   of said first and said second colors in combination with a text message on said color display.
   3.      A system for use with a plurality of gaming devices, each device having a game
   display for displaying a game outcome, the system comprising:
20         a central system;
           a color display, separate from said gaming display, housed within each one of said
   plurality of gaming devices, for selectively displaying user-dependent inputs and receiving
   inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices, said color display controllable
   by said central system;
25         a communication network connecting each of said plurality of gaming devices to
   said central system for communicating display control data from said central system to said
   plurality of gaming devices; and
           said central system for controlling a said color display in said selected one of said
   gaming devices to display a first color image to indicate a first user-dependent condition and
                                                   16
                                                                            10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

   for controlling said color display in said selected one of said gaming devices to display a
   second color image to indicate a second user-dependent condition.
   4.      The system of claim 1 wherein said central system commands display of at least one
   of said images in combination with a text message on said color display.
 5 5.      The system of claim 4 wherein said central system displays at least one of said
   images as a background for said text message.
   6.      The system of claim 4 wherein said central system displays at least one of said
   images so as to circumscribe said text message.
   7.      The system of claim 3 wherein said one gaming device includes a player interface
10 for the player to interface with the central system, said player interface transmitting first data
   to said central system when said interface is enabled and transmitting second data to said
   central system when said interface is disabled; and wherein said central system commands
   display of said first color image in response to said first data and commands display of said
   second color image in response to said second data.
15 8.      The system of claim 3 and further including a data structure storing data
   corresponding to a plurality of device display modes including a graphic display mode, said
   central system recalling data from said data structure to control said display to display said
   graphic display mode.
   9.      The system of claim 8 wherein said central system recalls data from said data
20 structure to control said display to simultaneously display a plurality of said device display
   modes.
   10.     The system of claim 3 wherein said color display is an LCD display; and wherein
   said central system controls said LCD display to display images selected from a group
   consisting of: (i) a plurality of varied color panels to convey information, (ii) graphically
25 changing images to convey information, (iii) text to convey information, (iv) graphic skins
   to convey information, or (v) flashing colors, text or images to convey information.
   11.     A system for a plurality of game devices, each device having a game display for
   displaying a game outcome, the system including a central processor, a communication
   network for communication of data between the central processor and each game device and
30 a data structure storing player data corresponding to each player to be tracked, the
   improvement comprising:
                                                    17
                                                                            10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

            said central processor configured to access said data structure;
            a color display associated with a game device for selectively displaying user
   dependent inputs and receiving inputs from a user of a selected one of said gaming devices;
            an interface between the player and said central processor for communication of
 5 user-dependent data, said interface having a first state in which communication between the
   player and said central processor is enabled, and having a second state in which
   communication between the player and said central processor is disabled; and
            wherein said data structure storing data corresponding to a video display mode Xi
   and a video display mode X 2 , said video display mode Xi configuring said display to display
10 at least one of color, text, or graphics to indicate said first state and said video display mode
   X2 for configuring said display to display at least one of color text or graphics to indicate
   said second state.
   12.      A method in a system for a plurality of gaming devices, said system including a
   central processor, an operator-system interface for each gaming device and a communication
15 network providing communication between the central processor and each interface, the
   method comprising:
            providing a digital color display associated with each interface;
            selectively displaying at the color display user-dependent inputs;
            receiving inputs at the color display, from a user in response to the display of user
20 dependent inputs;
            processing user-dependent data from said device and interface at said processor to
   determine one or more system communication states Xi - X, and
            controlling the color display to display in one or more visual modes.
   13.      The method of claim 12 wherein said step of controlling the display to display in one
25 or more visual modes includes displaying one or more from a group consisting of: (i) a
   plurality of varied color panels, ii) graphically changing images, (iii) text, (iv) graphic skins,
   or (v) flashing colors, text or images.
                                                    18
                                                                              10291804_1(GHMatters)P80227.AU.4 25/05/2018

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
