   ABSTRACT
           The present invention relates to compositions and methods for inhibiting
   thrombosis without compromising hemostasis. Compositions include anti-factor XI
   monoclonal antibodies (aXIMabs) capable ofbinding to an epitope on the heavy chain
 5 of human FXI, particularly the A3 domain of the heavy chain of human FXI.
   Compositions also include epitope-binding fragments, variants, and derivatives ofthe
   monoclonal antibodies, cell lines producing these antibody compositions, and isolated
   nucleic acid molecules encoding the amino acid sequences of the antibodies. The
   invention further includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising the anti-factor XI
10 monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or epitope-binding fragments, variants, or
   derivatives thereof, in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Methods ofthe invention
   comprise administering the compositions described above to a subject in need thereof
   for the purpose of inhibiting thrombosis, reducing a required dose of an
   antithrombotic agent in the treatment of thrombosis, treating metastatic cancer, or
15 treating an acute inflammatory reaction. Methods for making an anti-factor XI
   monoclonal antibody, or epitope-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof,
   are also provided.
                                  19259071. DOCS:\NrPortbl\FAKDocs\SBEBBINGTON\1 9259071 .DOC

          ANTI-FACTOR XI MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES AND METHODS OF USE
                                               THEREOF
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  5          The present invention relates to antibodies capable of binding to factor XI and
     methods of use thereof, particularly methods of use as antithrombotic agents that do not
     compromise hemostasis.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 10          Hemostasis is a vital function that stops bleeding and protects the integrity of blood
    circulation on both molecular and macroscopic levels. Hemostasis includes a coagulation
    cascade of sequentially activatable enzymes that is traditionally divided into three parts: 1)
    an intrinsic pathway, which includes interactions of blood coagulation proteins that lead to
    the generation of coagulation factor IXa without involvement of coagulation factor Vlla;
 15 2) an extrinsic pathway, which includes interactions of blood coagulation proteins that
    lead to the generation of coagulation factor Xa and/or IXa without involvement of
    thromboplastin antecedent (factor XI); and 3) a common coagulation pathway, including
    interactions of blood coagulation proteins II, V, VIII, IX and X that lead to the generation
    of thrombin (factor Ila). Thrombin activates platelets and generates fibrin, both of which
20  are essential building elements of the hemostatic plug that is responsible for sealing the
    vascular breach. Complete absence of thrombin or platelets causes paralysis of hemostasis
    and leads to lethal hemorrhage.
            Thrombosis, like hemostasis, is a platelet and thrombin dependent process.
    Thrombosis is a pathological, intravascular, thrombin-dependent, progressive deposition
25  of polymerized fibrin and activated platelets that causes occlusion of blood vessels in
    various organs. In healthy mammals, intravascular coagulation is localized to the site of
    hemostasis. Intraluminal progression into thrombosis is efficiently blocked by natural
    antithrombotic enzymes and inhibitors, such as activated protein C, plasmin, and
    antithrombin. Thrombosis develops when the antithrombotic system fails to control
30  further intravascular thrombin generation. Causality of macrovascular and/or
    LEGALA/31025285v1                           -  I -                 Attorney Docket No. 53362/364212

       microvascular thrombosis in morbidity and mortality has been directly documented in
       various diseases that include deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary thromboembolism,
       peripheral artery thrombosis and embolism, retina vein thrombosis, as well as myocardial
       infarction (Meadows (1965) Med. J. Aust. 4:409-411; Harland (1966) Lancet 26:1158
   5   1160), ischemic stroke (Carmon (1966) J. Neurol. Sci 4:111-119), anthrax sepsis and
       meningococcal sepsis (Dalldorf (1977) Arch. Pathol.Lab. Med. 101:6-9), or heparin
       induced thrombocytopenia (Rhodes (1973) Surg. Gynecol. Obstet. 136:409416).
       Evidence for organ damage of thrombotic occlusion and hypoxic origin is also available in
       other disease groups, such as hemorrhagic fevers (Dennis (1969) Br. J. Haematol. 17:455
 10    462; Gear (1979) Rev. Infect. Dis. 1:571-591; Ignatiev (2000) 1mmunol. Lett. 71:131-140),
       diabetic angiopathy (Ishibashi (1981) Diabetes30:601-606; Boeri (2001) Diabetes
       50:1432-1439), kidney disease (Miller (1980) Kidney Int. 18:472-479; McCutcheon
      (1993) Lupus 2:99-103), and several other conditions.
               Although thrombosis and hemostasis are not identical molecular processes, they
 15   are similar enough that antithrombotic drugs developed to date inadvertently target both.
      Thrombosis is treated with antiplatelet, profibrinolytic, and anticoagulant agents, yet most
      of these agents can completely block both thrombosis and hemostasis when administered
      at their maximally effective doses. Antithrombotic drugs either target the building blocks
      of thrombi (fibrin and platelets) or inhibit molecules (coagulation factors) and cells
20    (platelets) from participating in the thrombus-forming process. It is widely believed
      among clinicians and researchers that if an antithrombotic agent is unable to block
      hemostasis it will not work in thrombosis.
               One of the oldest anticoagulant antithrombotic agents, heparin, is still the most
     widely given injection in the world. Sufficiently high doses of heparin can achieve nearly
25    100% efficacy but only at the cost of paralyzing hemostasis at such doses. Unfortunately,
     newer antithrombotic agents, such as fractionated heparins or direct thrombin inhibitors
     agents do not fare much better. As a result, antithrombotic agents, especially
     anticoagulants and profibrinolytic agents, must be administered at less than their
     maximally efficacious doses, and thrombosis remains an under-treated disease.
30   Introduction of new compounds that are based on the promise of improved efficacy but are
     unable to promise improvement of hemostatic safety is unjustifiable. To date,
     antithrombotic compounds have fallen short of promising improvement of safety. The
     ideal antithrombotic agent would anti-coagulate circulating blood without adversely
     affecting hemostasis.
     LEGAL02/31025285vl                            -2-                     AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

                Thus, there remains a pressing medical need for the development of safe yet
        efficacious agents that block intravascular thrombin generation without paralyzing
       hemostasis.
   5                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                Compositions and methods are provided for inhibiting thrombosis without
       compromising hemostasis. Compositions include anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies
       (aXIMabs) capable of binding to an epitope on the heavy chain of human FXI, particularly
      the A3 domain of the heavy chain of human FXL Compositions also include epitope
 10   binding fragments, variants, and derivatives of the monoclonal antibodies, cell lines
      producing these antibody compositions, and isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding the
      amino acid sequences of the antibodies. The invention further includes pharmaceutical
      compositions comprising the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or
      epitope-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, in a pharmaceutically
 15   acceptable carrier. Methods of the invention comprise administering the compositions
      described above to a subject in need thereof for the purpose of inhibiting thrombosis,
      reducing a required dose of an antithrombotic agent in the treatment of thrombosis,
      treating metastatic cancer, or treating an acute inflammatory reaction. Methods for
      making an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody, or epitope-binding fragments, variants, or
20    derivatives thereof, are also provided.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
               Figure 1. Local sampling model and thrombogenic device used to initiate
     thrombus formation. (A) Qualitative schematic of the local sampling method (not to
25   scale). (B) Scanning electron microscope image of uncoated, and collagen coated (C)
     expanded-polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) clinical vascular graft material.
               Figure 2. Inhibition of the FXI procoagulant activity after administration of an
     anti-FXI monoclonal antibody (aXIMab). A single i.v. bolus (2mg/kg) of aXIMab was
     given over 5 min to 4 separate baboons. Plasma samples were collected into I/lot v/v
30   3.2% citrate anticoagulant and tested in a one-stage clotting assay to assess the inhibition
     of FXI. Each time point represents the mean of 2-4 separate animals, with each exceeding
     95% inhibition through day 8. All clotting times normalized by day 11.
              Figure 3. FXT inhibition reduces platelet and fibrin deposition on collagen coated
     vascular grafts. Effects of FXI inhibition on (A) platelet and (B) fibrin deposition on
     LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -3 -                      AttyL)ktNo. 53362/364212

      collagen coated (4mm i.d.) vascular grafts. Thrombogenic grafts were placed in untreated
      (n=8) or aXIMab treated (n=6) animals (>95% FXI inhibition). Blood was allowed to
      flow through the devices at a clamped rate of 100ml/min, producing an average wall shear
      rate of 265 s-1. Significance levels are ***P = 0.001. Values are means ± SEM.
  5           Figure 4. FXI inhibition by aXIMab reduces thrombin generation and platelet
      activation, while not affecting fibrinolysis. (A,C) Local and (B,D) systemic
      thrombin/antithrombin (TAT) and p-thromboglobulin (p-TG) levels during thrombus
      formation, respectively. Blood samples were also tested for the fibrinolysis product d
      dimer (E). Local values are those taken from the near wall, low flow boundary layer 1 cm
 10  distal to the growing thrombus over the course of 10 min prior to its designated time,
     while systemic samples were taken from the arterio/venous shunt proximal to the
     thrombogenic device. Zero time points in all groups are from samples taken systemically
     immediately before each study. FXI inhibition dramatically reduced local thrombin
     formation and platelet activation, which translated into significant systemic reductions in
 15  both TAT and p-TG compared with collagen controls by 60 min. Significant fibrinolysis
     was not detected in either non-treated or aXIMab treated animals.
              Figure 5. FXI inhibition limits thrombus stability and prevents vascular graft
     occlusion under high arterial shear. Effects of FXI inhibition and ASA on platelet
     deposition on collagen coated (2 mm i.d.) vascular grafts are shown. Collagen-coated
20  vascular graft segments were placed in permanent arterio-venous shunts in untreated
     (n=9), ASA treated (n=6), and aXIMab treated (n=5) animals. Blood was allowed to flow
    through the grafts at a rate of 100 ml/min, producing an average initial wall shear rate of
    2120 s. The flow was maintained by the pulsatile arterial pressure until the graft occluded
    (defined as s 20 ml/min flow rate). Thrombi that formed in the grafts in the aXIMab
25  treated animals were unstable and did not occlude the grafts during the 60 min-long
    studies. Significance levels are *P = 0.05, **P < 0.01 compared with non-treatment
    controls, using the log-rank test with the non-occluded devices being censored. Values are
    means ± SEM.
             Figure 6. Template bleeding time is normal in FXI inhibited baboons. Bleeding
30  time was monitored repeatedly, on the volar surface of the lower arm, before and during
    treatment with aXIMab or ASA using an FDA-approved method and device (Surgicutt).
    ASA (n=10) prolonged the bleeding time while inhibition of FXI by aXIMab (n=l 8) did
    not demonstrably impair hemostasis compared with no treatment controls (n=14). The
    average of bleeding time changes are shown ± SEM. Significance levels are **P < 0.01.
    LEGA L02/31025285vl                           -4-                     AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

              Figure 7. (A) Binding of anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody 1A6 to Factor XI
     using Western Blots. The bands in the left panel show that antibody 1A6 recognizes
     Factor XI in human and non-human primate plasma. Similar bands were not observed for
     Factor XI depleted or deficient samples (right panel). (B) aXIMab prevented visible fibrin
  5  formation and reduced platelet accumulation in FXII-inhibited or deficient human blood
     under flow.
             Figure 8. Inhibition of FXI procoagulant activity after administration of aXIMab.
     A single intravenous bolus of aXIMab (2 mg/kg) was given over 5 min to a single baboon.
     Plasma samples were collected into citrate anticoagulant and tested for (A) FXI
 10  procoagulant activity, FXI antigen (FXI:Ag), and (B) inhibitor levels over 4 weeks, with
     each time point being the mean of duplicate measurements. The FXI:Ag ELISA was able
     to detect both free and complexed FXI. Since the Bethesda assay detected only free FXI
     inhibitor (aXIMab), FXI:Ag and FXT activity at low inhibitor levels did not correlate until
     all complexes were cleared from circulation. (B) Western blot of 1 pl NIIP and NBP
 15  samples size fractionated by non-reducing 7.5% SDS-PAGE. Detection was with a
     polyclonal antibody against human FXI. The five lanes on the right represent samples
    prior to (0) or 1, 6, 8, and 27 days after infusion of aXIMab. Abbreviations: XI - 100 ng
    purified human FXI; NHP - normal human plasma; NBP - normal baboon plasma; XI-DP
    - FXI deficient human plasma.
20           Figure 9 shows Western Blots of the binding of anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibody IA6 to chimeric proteins of FXI and Prekallikrein (PK) involving the
    substitution of FXI domains with PK domains. As shown in the right panel, monoclonal
    antibody 1A6 bound all FXI/PK chimeras except the chimera in which the A3 domain of
    FXI was substituted with a PK domain.
25          Figure 10 shows Western Blots of the binding of anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibody 1A6 to chimeric proteins of FXI and PK involving the substitution of PK
    domains with FXI domains. Monoclonal antibody 1A6 bound only to chimeras in which
    the A3 domain of FXI had been inserted.
            Figure 11 shows Western Blots of the binding of anti-factor XI monoclonal
30  antibody IA6 to recombinant FXI proteins involving mutations of different amino acids
    within the A3 domain. Although a polyclonal anti-factor XI antibody bound to all FXI A3
    domain mutants, monoclonal antibody 1A6 did not bind to some mutants in which amino
    acids within the A3 domain were substituted with Alanine.
    LEGAL02/31025285v                             -5 -                  AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

              Figure 12 shows the position of Alanine substitutions within the A3 domain of FXI
     that prevented or reduced the binding of monoclonal antibody 1A6 to FXL
              Figure 13. (A) Aximab heavy chain nucleotide (SEQ ID NO: 2) and amino acid
     (SEQ ID NO: 3) sequences. (B) Aximab light chain nucleotide (SEQ ID NO: 4) and
  5  amino acid (SEQ ID NO: 5) sequences. (C) CDR grafted Aximab heavy chain nucleotide
     (SEQ ID NO: 6) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO: 7) sequences. (D) CDR grafted Aximab
     light chain nucleotide (SEQ ID NO: 8) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO: 9) sequences. CDR
     definitions and protein sequence numbering according to Kabat. CDR nucleotide and
     protein sequences are in bold. Changes from murine sequence are underlined in (C) and
 10  (D). Human acceptor germline framework is IGHV2-5.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     I.      Overview
             The present invention relates to compositions and methods relating to anti-ftctor
 15 XI monoclonal antibodies (aXIMabs) for inhibiting thrombosis without compromising
    hemostasis. As described more fully below, monoclonal antibodies from a mouse cell line
    designated 1A6 were prepared that recognized and bound to the heavy chain of primate
    (particularly human) factor XI (FXI), particularly to the Apple 3 (A3) domain of the heavy
    chain of human FXT. Although polyclonal anti-FXI antibodies are commercially available
20  for research and diagnostic uses, these polyclonal antibodies are not safe to use in the
    clinic because they cannot be controlled and their production is dependent on the
    availability of live animals (See, e.g., Gruber & Hanson (2003) Blood 102:953-955). In
    contrast, monoclonal antibodies can be consistently manufactured in cell cultures, they can
    be synthetized, or purified from byproducts of transgenic organisms that can range from
25  fungi to plants to animals. In addition, although mouse monoclonal anti-FXI antibodies
    are currently available for research applications, no specific anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibodies have been produced for use as safe antithrombotic agents in vivo.
             One advantage of the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or
    epitope-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, is their exceptional safety as
30  anticoagulant agents. The anti-factor X1 monoclonal antibodies of the invention are
    monoscpecific for FXI and do not inhibit essential proteins or interact with vital molecules
    and pathways, either in their intact form or when degraded. This is a particular safety
    advantage as compared to other antithrombotic agents. Specifically, doses of anti-factor XI
    monoclonal antibody significantly exceeding the maximum effective dose (for example,
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                            -6-                       AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

       several times the maximum effective dose) did not produce any adverse bleeding or
       other toxic side effects in subjects. In contrast, all other antithrombotic agents, such as
       vitamin K antagonists, indirect and direct inhibitors of essential coagulation enzymes,
       platelet inhibitors, fibrinolytic agents, and the like are ultimately dangerous and even
   5   fatal when they are administered at their maximally effective doses.
               Other safety advantages of the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention
      as compared to other antitfirombotic agents, such as small molecule enzyme inhibitors or
      platelet inhibitors, are that the monoclonal antibodies of the invention are metabolized and
      eliminated without generation of toxic metabolic intermediates, and their metabolism is
 10   virtually independent of the integrity of liver and kidney functions. In addition, the anti-factor
      XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention do not interact with other pharmacological
      compounds and do not directly affect the activity or metabolism of other drugs, in contrast
      to other antithrombotic agents.
               The anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention are also useful as potent
 15  pharmacological agents. As described more fully below, anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody
      administration can prevent or treat diseases where FXI activity contributes to pathology.
     The anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention inhibit thrombus formation
     without causing bleeding and therefore provide a safe treatment option for thromboocclusive
     diseases in subjects, particularly humans. Another advantage of anti-factor XI monoclonal
20   antibody as compared to other antithrombotic agents is that a single dose is safe and
     effective for longer than one week. Most antithrombotic agents have shorter duration
     of action.
     II.      Definitions
25            It is to be noted that the term "a" or "an" entity refers to one or more of that entity;
     for example, "an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody" is understood to represent one or
     more anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies. As such, the terms "a" (or "an"), "one or
     more," and "at least one" can be used interchangeably herein.
              The term "hemostasis" as used herein refers to a coordinated mechanism that
30   maintains the integrity of blood circulation following injury to the vascular system. In
     normal circulation without vascular injury, platelets are not activated and freely circulate.
     Vascular injury exposes sub-endothelial tissue to which platelets can adhere. Adherent
     platelets will attract other circulating platelets to form a preliminary plug that is
     particularly useful in closing a leak in a capillary or other small vessel. These events are
     LEGAL02/31025285v1                             - 7-                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

      termed primary hemostasis. This is, typically, rapidly followed by secondary hemostasis
      that involves a cascade of linked enzymatic reactions that result in plasma coagulation to
      reinforce the primary platelet plug. Accordingly, a hemostatic agent is any agent that
      slows or stops bleeding by promoting or enhancing any of the physiological processes
  5   involved in hemostasis, including contraction of the blood vessels, adhesion and
      aggregation of formed blood elements, and blood or plasma coagulation.
              The term "coagulation" as used herein refers to the process of polymerization of
      fibrin monomers, resulting in the transformation of blood or plasma from a liquid to a gel
     phase. Coagulation of liquid blood may occur in vitro, intravascularly or at an exposed
 10  and injured tissue surface. In vitro blood coagulation results in a gelled blood that
     maintains the cellular and other blood components in essentially the same relative
     proportions as found in non-coagulated blood, except for a reduction in fibrinogen content
     and a corresponding increase in fibrin. By "blood clot" is intended a viscous gel formed
     of, and containing all, components of blood in the same relative proportions as found in
 15  liquid blood.
              The term "coagulation cascade" as used herein refers to three interconnecting
     enzyme pathways as described, for example, by Manolin in Wilson et al. (eds): Harrison's
     Principle of Internal Medicine,  14 h Ed. New York. McGraw-Mill, 1998, p. 341,
     incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The intrinsic coagulation pathway leads
20  to the formation of Factor IXa, that in conjunction with Factors VIla and X, phospholipid
     and Ca2+ gives Factor Xa. The extrinsic pathway gives Factor Xa and IXa after the
    combination of tissue factor and factor VIL The common coagulation pathway interacts
    with the blood coagulation Factors V, VIII, IX and X to cleave prothrombin to thrombin
    (Factor Ila), which is then able to cleave fibrinogen to fibrin.       As used herein, the
25  term "polypeptide" is intended to encompass a singular "polypeptide" as well as plural
    "polypeptides," and refers to a molecule composed of monomers (amino acids) linearly
    linked by amide bonds (also known as peptide bonds). The term "polypeptide" refers to
    any chain or chains of two or more amino acids, and does not refer to a specific length of
    the product. Thus, peptides, dipeptides, tripeptides, oligopeptides, "protein," "amino acid
30  chain," or any other term used to refer to a chain or chains of two or more amino acids, are
    included within the definition of "polypeptide," and the term "polypeptide" may be used
    instead of, or interchangeably with any of these terms. The term "polypeptide" is also
    intended to refer to the products of post-expression modifications of the polypeptide,
    including without limitation glycosylation, acetylation, phosphorylation, amidation,
    LEGAL02/31025285v1                           -8-                       AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

     derivatization by known protecting/blocking groups, proteolytic cleavage, or modification
     by non-naturally occurring amino acids. A polypeptide may be derived from a natural
     biological source or produced by recombinant technology, but is not necessarily translated
     from a designated nucleic acid sequence. It may be generated in any manner, including by
  5  chemical synthesis.
             A polypeptide of the invention may be of a size of about 3 or more, 5 or more, 10
     or more, 20 or more, 25 or more, 50 or more, 75 or more, 100 or more, 200 or more, 500
     or more, 1,000 or more, or 2,000 or more amino acids. Polypeptides may have a defined
     three-dimensional structure, although they do not necessarily have such structure.
 10  Polypeptides with a defined three-dimensional structure are referred to as folded, and
     polypeptides that do not possess a defined three-dimensional structure, but rather can
     adopt a large number of different conformations, are referred to as unfolded.          By an
     "isolated" polypeptide or a fragment, variant, or derivative thereof is intended a
    polypeptide that is not in its natural milieu. No particular level of purification is required.
 15 For example, an isolated polypeptide can be removed from its native or natural
    environment. Recombinantly produced polypeptides and proteins expressed in host cells
    are considered isolated for purpose of the invention, as are native or recombinant
    polypeptides that have been separated, fractionated, or partially or substantially purified by
    any suitable technique.
20           Also included as polypeptides of the present invention are fragments, derivatives,
    analogs, or variants of the foregoing polypeptides, and any combination thereof. The
    terms "fragment," "variant," "derivative," and "analog" when referring to anti-factor XI
    monoclonal antibodies or antibody polypeptides of the present invention include any
    polypeptides that retain at least some of the antigen-binding properties of the
25  corresponding antibody or antibody polypeptide of the invention. Fragments of
    polypeptides of the present invention include proteolytic fragments, as well as deletion
    fragments, in addition to specific antibody fragments discussed elsewhere herein. Variants
    of anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies and antibody polypeptides of the present invention
    include f-agments as described above, and also polypeptides with altered amino acid
30  sequences due to amino acid substitutions, deletions, or insertions. Variants may occur
    naturally or be non-naturally occurring. Non-naturally occurring variants may be
    produced using art-known mutagenesis techniques. Variant polypeptides may comprise
    conservative or non-conservative amino acid substitutions, deletions, or additions.
    Derivatives of anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies and antibody polypeptides of the
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -9 -                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

      present invention, are polypeptides that have been altered so as to exhibit additional
      features not found on the reference antibody or antibody polypeptide of the invention.
      Examples include fusion proteins. Variant polypeptides may also be referred to herein as
      "polypeptide analogs." As used herein a "derivative" of an anti-factor XI monoclonal
  5   antibody or antibody polypeptide refers to a subject polypeptide having one or more
      residues chemically derivatized by reaction of a functional side group. Also included as
      "derivatives" are those peptides that contain one or more naturally occurring amino acid
      derivatives of the twenty standard amino acids. For example, 4-hydroxyproline may be
      substituted for proline; 5-hydroxylysine may be substituted for lysine; 3-methylhistidine
 10   may be substituted for histidine; homoserine may be substituted for serine; and omithine
     may be substituted for lysine.
              The term "polynucleotide" is intended to encompass a singular nucleic acid as well
     as plural nucleic acids, and refers to an isolated nucleic acid molecule or construct, e.g.,
     messenger RNA (mRNA) or plasmid DNA (pDNA). A polynicleotide may comprise a
 15  conventional phosphodiester bond or a non-conventional bond (e.g., an amide bond, such
     as found in peptide nucleic acids (PNA)). The term "nucleic acid" refers to any one or
     more nucleic acid segments, e.g., DNA or RNA fragments, present in a polynucleotide.
     By "isolated" nucleic acid or polynucleotide is intended a nucleic acid molecule, DNA or
     RNA, that has been removed from its native environment. For example, a recombinant
20   polynucleotide encoding an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody contained in a vector is
     considered isolated for the purposes of the present invention. Further examples of an
     isolated polynucleotide include recombinant polynucleotides maintained in heterologous
     host cells or purified (partially or substantially) polynucleotides in solution. Isolated RNA
     molecules include in vivo or in vitro RNA transcripts of polynucleotides of the present
25   invention. Isolated polynucleotides or nucleic acids according to the present invention
     further include such molecules produced synthetically. In addition, a polynucleotide or a
     nucleic acid may be or may include a regulatory element such as a promoter, ribosome
    binding site, or a transcription terminator.
             As used herein, a "coding region" is a portion of nucleic acid that consists of
30  codons translated into amino acids. Although a "stop codon" (TAG, TGA, or TAA) is not
    translated into an amino acid, it may be considered to be part of a coding region, but any
    flanking sequences, for example promoters, ribosome binding sites, transcriptional
    terminators, introns, and the like, are not part of a coding region. Two or more coding
    regions of the present invention can be present in a single polynucleotide construct, e.g.,
    LEGALO2/31025285v1                             - 10-                     AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

      on a single vector, or in separate polynucleotide constructs, e.g., on separate (different)
      vectors. Furthermore, any vector may contain a single coding region, or may comprise
     two or more coding regions, e.g., a single vector may separately encode an
      immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region and an immunoglobulin light chain variable
  5  region. In addition, a vector, polynucleotide, or nucleic acid of the invention may encode
     heterologous coding regions, either fused or unfused to a nucleic acid encoding an anti
     factor XI monoclonal antibody or fragment, variant, or derivative thereof. Heterologous
     coding regions include without limitation specialized elements or motifs, such as a
     secretory signal peptide or a heterologous functional domain.
 10           In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide or nucleic acid is DNA. In the case of
     DNA, a polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid that encodes a polypeptide normally
     may include a promoter and/or other transcription or translation control elements operably
     associated with one or more coding regions. An operable association is when a coding
     region for a gene product, e.g., a polypeptide, is associated with one or more regulatory
 15  sequences in such a way as to place expression of the gene product under the influence or
     control of the regulatory sequence(s). Two DNA fragments (such as a polypeptide coding
     region and a promoter associated therewith) are "operably associated" if induction of
    promoter function results in the transcription of mRNA encoding the desired gene product
     and if the nature of the linkage between the two DNA fragments does not interfere with
20  the ability of the expression regulatory sequences to direct the expression of the gene
    product or interfere with the ability of the DNA template to be transcribed. Thus, a
    promoter region would be operably associated with a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide
    if the promoter was capable of effecting transcription of that nucleic acid. The promoter
    may be a cell-specific promoter that directs substantial transcription of the DNA only in
25  predetermined cells. Other transcription control elements, besides a promoter, for
    example enhancers, operators, repressors, and transcription termination signals, can be
    operably associated with the polynucleotide to direct cell-specific transcription. Suitable
    promoters and other transcription and translation control regions are well known in the art.
             The present invention is directed to certain anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies,
30  or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof. Unless specifically
    referring to full-sized antibodies such as naturally occurring antibodies, the term "anti
    factor XI monoclonal antibodies" encompasses full-sized antibodies as well as antigen
    LEGAL02/31025285v                            - 11 -                     AttyflktNo. 53362/364212

      binding fragments, variants, analogs, or derivatives of such antibodies, e.g., naturally
      occurring antibody or immunoglobulin molecules or engineered antibody molecules or
      fragments that bind antigen in a manner similar to antibody molecules.
              The terms "antibody" and "immunoglobulin" are used interchangeably herein. An
  5   antibody or immunoglobulin comprises at least the variable domain of a heavy chain, and
      normally comprises at least the variable domains of a heavy chain and a light chain. Basic
      immunoglobulin structures in vertebrate systems are relatively well understood. See, e.g.,
     Harlow et al. (1988) Antibodies: A LaboratoryManual (2nd ed.; Cold Spring Harbor
     Laboratory Press).
 10          As will be discussed in more detail below, the term "immunoglobulin" comprises
     various broad classes ofpolypeptides that can be distinguished biochemically. Those
     skilled in the art will appreciate that heavy chains are classified as gamma, mu, alpha,
     delta, or epsilon, (y, p, a, 8, F) with some subclasses among them (e.g., y 1-y4). It is the
     nature of this chain that determines the "class" of the antibody as IgG, 1gM, IgA, IgD, or
 15  IgE, respectively. The immunoglobulin subclasses (isotypes) e.g., IgG1 , IgG2, IgG 3 , IgG 4 ,
     IgAj, etc., are well characterized and are known to confer functional specialization.
     Modified versions of each of these classes and isotypes are readily discernable to the
     skilled artisan in view of the instant disclosure and, accordingly, are within the scope of
     the instant invention. Although all immunoglobulin classes are clearly within the scope of
20   the present invention, the following discussion will generally be directed to the IgG class
     of immunoglobulin molecules. With regard to IgG, a standard immunoglobulin molecule
    comprises two identical light chain polypeptides of molecular weight approximately
    23,000 Daltons, and two identical heavy chain polypeptides of molecular weight 53,000
    70,000 Daltons. The four chains are typically joined by disulfide bonds in a "Y"
25  configuration wherein the light chains bracket the heavy chains starting at the mouth of the
    "Y" and continuing through the variable region.
             Light chains are classified as either kappa or lambda (K,X). Each heavy chain class
    may be bound with either a kappa or lambda light chain. In general, the light and heavy
    chains are covalently bonded to each other, and the "tail" portions of the two heavy chains
30  are bonded to each other by covalent disulfide linkages or non-covalent linkages when the
    immunoglobulins are generated either by hybridomas, B cells, or genetically engineered
    host cells. In the heavy chain, the amino acid sequences run from an N-tenninus at the
    forked ends of the Y configuration to the C-terminus at the bottom of each chain.
    LEGALO2/31025285vl                            - 12-                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

              Both the light and heavy chains are divided into regions of structural and
      functional homology referred to as the "constant region" and the "variable region." The
     terms "constant" and "variable" are used functionally. In this regard, it will be appreciated
     that the variable domains of both the light (VL) and heavy (VH) chain portions determine
  5  antigen recognition and specificity. Conversely, the constant domains of the light chain
     (CL) and the heavy chain (CHI, CH2, or CH3) confer important biological properties such
     as secretion, transplacental mobility, Fc receptor binding, complement binding, and the
     like. By convention the numbering of the constant region domains increases as they
     become more distal from the antigen binding site or amino-terminus of the antibody. The
 10  N-terminal portion is a variable region and at the C-terminal portion is a constant region;
     the CH3 and CL domains actually comprise the carboxy-terminus of the heavy and light
     chain, respectively.
             As indicated above, the variable region allows the antibody to selectively
     recognize and specifically bind epitopes on antigens. That is, the VL domain and VH
15   domain, or subset of the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) within these
     variable domains, of an antibody combine to form the variable region that defines a three
     dimensional antigen binding site. This quaternary antibody structure forms the antigen
     binding site present at the end of each arm of the Y. More specifically, the antigen
     binding site is defined by three CDRs on each of the VH and VL chains.
20           In naturally occurring antibodies, the six "complementarity determining regions"
     or "CDRs" present in each antigen binding domain are short, non-contiguous sequences of
     amino acids that are specifically positioned to form the antigen binding domain as the
     antibody assumes its three dimensional configuration in an aqueous environment. The
    remainder of the amino acids in the antigen binding domains, referred to as "framework"
25  regions, show less inter-molecular variability. The framework regions largely adopt a p
     sheet conformation and the CDRs form loops that connect, and in some cases form part of,
    the p-sheet structure. Thus, framework regions act to form a scaffold that provides for
    positioning the CDRs in correct orientation by inter-chain, non-covalent interactions. The
    antigen binding domain formed by the positioned CDRs defines a surface complementary
30  to the epitope on the immunoreactive antigen. This complementary surface promotes the
    non-covalent binding of the antibody to its cognate epitope. The amino acids comprising
    the CDRs and the framework regions, respectively, can be readily identified for any given
    heavy or light chain variable domain by one of ordinary skill in the art, since they have
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                           - 13 -                    AttyI.ktNo. 53362/364212

      been precisely defined (see, "Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest," Kabat et
      al (1983) U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and Chothia and Lesk (1987)
      J Mol Biol., 196:901-917, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties).
              In the case where there are two or more definitions of a term that is used and/or
  5   accepted within the art, the definition of the term as used herein is intended to include all
      such meanings unless explicitly stated to the contrary. A specific example is the use of the
      term "complementarity determining region" ("CDR") to describe the non-contiguous
      antigen combining sites found within the variable region of both heavy and light chain
     polypeptides. This particular region has been described by Kabat et al.(1983) U.S. Dept.
 10  of Health and Human Services, "Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest" and by
     Chothia and Lesk (1987) J Mol. Biol. 196:901-917, which are incorporated herein by
     reference, where the definitions include overlapping or subsets of amino acid residues
     when compared against each other. Nevertheless, application of either definition to refer
     to a CDR of an antibody or variants thereof is intended to be within the scope of the term
 15  as defined and used herein. Those skilled in the art can routinely determine which
     residues comprise a particular CDR given the variable region amino acid sequence of the
     antibody.
             Kabat et al.also defined a numbering system for variable domain sequences that is
     applicable to any antibody. One of ordinary skill in the art can unambigously assign this
20   system of "Kabat numbering" to any variable domain sequence, without reliance on any
    experimental data beyond the sequence itself. As used herein, "Kabat numbering" refers
    to the numbering system set forth by Kabat et aL (1983) U.S. Dept. of Health and Human
    Services, "Sequence of Proteins of Immunological Interest." Unless otherwise specified,
    references to the numbering of specific amino acid residue positions in an anti-factor XI
25  monoclonal antibody or antigen-binding fragment variant, or derivative thereof of the
    present invention are according to the Kabat numbering system.
             Antibodies or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof of the
    invention include, but are not limited to monoclonal, human, humanized, primatized, or
    chimeric antibodies, single chain antibodies, epitope-binding fragments, e.g., Fab, Fab'
30  and F(ab') 2, Fd, Fvs, single-chain Fvs (scFv), single-chain antibodies, disulfide-linked Fvs
    (sdFv), fragments comprising either a VL or VH domain, fragments produced by a Fab
    expression library, and anti-idiotypic (anti-Id) antibodies (including, e.g., anti-Id
    antibodies to anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies disclosed herein). ScFv molecules are
    known in the art and are described, e.g., in U.S. Patent No. 5,892,019. Immunoglobulin or
    LIGALO2/31025285v                             - 14-                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

       antibody molecules of the invention can be of any type (e.g., IgG, IgE, IgM, IgD, IgA, and
       IgY), class (e.g., IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, and IgA2, etc.), or subclass of
       immunoglobulin molecule.
               Antibody fragments, including single-chain antibodies, may comprise the variable
   5   region(s) alone or in combination with the entirety or a portion of the following: hinge
       region, CHI, CH2, and CH3 domains. Also included in the invention are antigen-binding
       fragments also comprising any combination of variable region(s) with a hinge region, CR1,
       C8 2, and CH3 domains.
               As used herein, "human" antibodies include antibodies having the amino acid
 10    sequence of a human immunoglobulin and include antibodies isolated from human
       immunoglobulin libraries or from animals transgenic for one or more human
       immunoglobulins and that do not express endogenous immunoglobulins, as described
      infra and, for example in, U.S. Patent No. 5,939,598 by Kucherlapati et aL
               As used herein, the term "heavy chain portion" includes amino acid sequences
 15   derived from an immunoglobulin heavy chain. A polypeptide comprising a heavy chain
      portion comprises at least one of: a CHI domain, a hinge (e.g., upper, middle, and/or
      lower binge region) domain, a CH2 domain, a        CH3 domain, or a variant or fragment
      thereof. For example, a binding polypeptide for use in the invention may comprise a
      polypeptide chain comprising a CHI domain; a polypeptide chain comprising a CHI
20    domain, at least a portion of a hinge domain, and a CH2 domain; a polypeptide chain
      comprising a CHI domain and a CH3 domain; a polypeptide chain comprising a CR1
      domain, at least a portion of a hinge domain, and a C3 domain, or a polypeptide chain
     comprising a    CHI   domain, at least a portion of a hinge domain, a CH2 domain, and a CH3
      domain. In another embodiment, a polypeptide of the invention comprises a polypeptide
25   chain comprising a CH3 domain. Further, a binding polypeptide for use in the invention
     may lack at least a portion of a CR2 domain (e.g., all or part of a CR2 domain). As set
     forth above, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that these domains
     (e.g., the heavy chain portions) may be modified such that they vary in amino acid
     sequence from the naturally occurring immunoglobulin molecule.
30            Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or
     derivatives thereof disclosed herein may be described or specified in terms of the
     epitope(s) or portion(s) of an antigen, e.g., a target polypeptide (human factor XI,
     described in SEQ ID NO: 1) that they recognize or specifically bind. The portion of a
     target polypeptide that specifically interacts with the antigen binding domain of an
     LEGALo2/31025285vl                             - 15 -                    AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

        antibody is an "epitope," or an "antigenic determinant." A target polypeptide may
       comprise a single epitope, but typically comprises at least two epitopes, and can include
       any number of epitopes, depending on the size, conformation, and type of antigen.
       Furthermore, it should be noted that an "epitope" on a target polypeptide may be or
   5   include non-polypeptide elements, e.g., an epitope may include a carbohydrate side chain.
                The minimum size of a peptide or polypeptide epitope for an antibody is thought to
       be about four to five amino acids. Peptide or polypeptide epitopes preferably contain at
       least seven, more preferably at least nine and most preferably between at least about 15 to
       about 30 amino acids. Since a CDR can recognize an antigenic peptide or polypeptide in
 10   its tertiary form, the amino acids comprising an epitope need not be contiguous, and in
      some cases, may not even be on the same peptide chain. In the present invention, peptide
      or polypeptide epitope recognized by anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the present
      invention is located on the heavy chain of human factor XI and contains a sequence of at
      least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, more preferably at least 8, at least 9, at least 10, at
 15   least 15, at least 20, at least 25, or between about 15 to about 30 contiguous or non
      contiguous amino acids of human factor XI (SEQ ID NO: 1).
               By "specifically binds," it is generally meant that an antibody binds to an epitope
      via its antigen binding domain, and that the binding entails some complementarity
      between the antigen binding domain and the epitope. According to this definition, an
20    antibody is said to "specifically bind" to an epitope when it binds to that epitope, via its
      antigen binding domain more readily than it would bind to a random, unrelated epitope.
      The term "specificity" is used herein to qualify the relative affinity by which a certain
      antibody binds to a certain epitope. For example, antibody "A" may be deemed to have a
     higher specificity for a given epitope than antibody "B," or antibody "A" may be said to
25   bind to epitope "C" with a higher specificity than it has for related epitope "D."
               By "preferentially binds," it is meant that the antibody specifically binds to an
     epitope more readily than it would bind to a related, similar, homologous, or analogous
     epitope. Thus, an antibody that "preferentially binds" to a given epitope would more
     likely bind to that epitope than to a related epitope, even though such an antibody may
30   cross-react with the related epitope.
              By way of non-limiting example, an antibody may be considered to bind a first
     epitope preferentially if it binds said first epitope with a dissociation constant (Kn) that is
     less than the antibody's KD for the second epitope. In another non-limiting example, an
     antibody may be considered to bind a first antigen preferentially if it binds the first epitope
     LEGALO2/31025285v                               - 16-                        AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

      with an affinity that is at least one order of magnitude less than the antibody's KD for the
      second epitope. In another non-limiting example, an antibody may be considered to bind a
      first epitope preferentially if it binds the first epitope with an affinity that is at least two
      orders of magnitude less than the antibody's Kn for the second epitope.
  5            In another non-limiting example, an antibody may be considered to bind a first
      epitope preferentially if it binds the first epitope with an off rate (k(off)) that is less than
      the antibody's k(off) for the second epitope. In another non-limiting example, an antibody
      may be considered to bind a first epitope preferentially if it binds the first epitope with an
      affinity that is at least one order of magnitude less than the antibody's k(off) for the
 10   second epitope. In another non-limiting example, an antibody may be considered to bind a
     first epitope preferentially if it binds the first epitope with an affinity that is at least two
     orders of magnitude less than the antibody's k(off) for the second epitope.
              An antibody or antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative disclosed herein
     may be said to bind a target polypeptide disclosed herein or a fragment or variant thereof
 15  with an off rate (k(off)) of less than or equal to 5 X 102 sec-, 102 seec, 5 X 10- sec', or
     10- sec. More preferably, an antibody of the invention may be said to bind a target
     polypeptide disclosed herein or a fragment or variant thereof with an off rate (k(off)) less
     than or equal to 5 X 104 see', 104 sec', 5 X 10' sec', or 10-5 sec', 5 X 10- sec, 10
     sec, 5 X 10-7 sec-3, or 10- sec'.
20            An antibody or antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof disclosed
    herein may be said to bind a target polypeptide disclosed herein or a fragment or variant
    thereof with an on rate (k(on)) of greater than or equal to 103 M4' sec, 5 X 103              see',
     10' M7 see', or 5 X 104 M-1 sec'. More preferably, an antibody of the invention may be
    said to bind a target polypeptide disclosed herein or a fragment or variant thereof with an
25  on rate (k(on)) greater than or equal to 105 M-1 sec-, 5 X 10' W1 sec, 106 M1 sect-, 5 X
     106 M-1 see', or 10 M-' sec'.
              An antibody is said to competitively inhibit binding of a reference antibody to a
    given epitope if it preferentially binds to that epitope to the extent that it blocks, to some
    degree, binding of the reference antibody to the epitope. Competitive inhibition may be
30  determined by any method known in the art, for example, competition ELISA assays. An
    antibody may be said to competitively inhibit binding of the reference antibody to a given
    epitope by at least 90%, at least 80%, at least 70%, at least 60%, or at least 50%.
    LEGAL02/31025285v                               - 17-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

               As used herein, the term "affinity" refers to a measure of the strength of the
      binding of an individual epitope with the CDR of an immunoglobulin molecule. See, e.g.,
      Harlow et al. (1988) Antibodies: A LaboratoryManual (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
      Press, 2nd ed.) pages 27-28. As used herein, the term "avidity" refers to the overall
  5   stability of the complex between a population of immunoglobulins and an antigen, that is,
     the functional combining strength of an immunoglobulin mixture with the antigen. See,
      e.g. , Harlow at pages 29-34. Avidity is related to both the affinity of individual
     immunoglobulin molecules in the population with specific epitopes, and also the valencies
     of the immunoglobulins and the antigen. For example, the interaction between a bivalent
 10  monoclonal antibody and an antigen with a highly repeating epitope structure, such as a
     polymer, would be one of high avidity.
               Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies or antigen-binding fragments, variants or
     derivatives thereof of the invention may also be described or specified in terms of their
     binding affinity to a polypeptide of the invention. Preferred binding affinities include
 15  those with a dissociation constant or Kd less than 5 x 10-2 M, 10-2 M, 5 x 10-3 M, 10 M, 5
     x 104M, 10 4 M, 5 x 105 M, 10M, 5 x 10-6M, 10M, 5 x 104 M, 10M, 5 x 10-M, 10-8
     M, 5 x 10M, 10M, 5 x 100M, 10O M, 5 x 0^"            1 M,
                                                                 10-" M, 5 x 10-1 M, 10 12 M, 5 x
     10- M, 10-1 M, 5 x 10-" M, 10 14 M, 5 x       10"M, or 10-5 M.
              As used herein, the term "chimeric antibody" will be held to mean any antibody
20  wherein the immunoreactive region or site is obtained or derived from a first species and
    the constant region (which may be intact, partial or modified in accordance with the
    instant invention) is obtained from a second species. In preferred embodiments the target
    binding region or site will be from a non-human source (e.g., mouse or primate) and the
    constant region is human.
25            As used herein, the term "engineered antibody" refers to an antibody in which the
    variable domain in either the heavy or light chain or both is altered by at least partial
    replacement of one or more CDRs from an antibody of known specificity and, if
    necessary, by partial framework region replacement and sequence changing. Although the
    CDRs may be derived from an antibody of the same class or even subclass as the antibody
30  from which the framework regions are derived, it is envisaged that the CDRs will be
    derived from an antibody of different class and preferably from an antibody from a
    different species. An engineered antibody in which one or more "donor" CDRs from a
    non-human antibody of known specificity is grafted into a human heavy or light chain
    framework region is referred to herein as a "humanized antibody." It may not be
    LEGALV2/31025285vl                           -  18 -                     AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

      necessary to replace all of the CDRs with the complete CDRs from the donor variable
      domain to transfer the antigen binding capacity of one variable domain to another. Rather,
      it may only be necessary to transfer those residues that are necessary to maintain the
      activity of the target binding site.
  5           It is further recognized that the framework regions within the variable domain in a
      heavy or light chain, or both, of a humanized antibody may comprise solely residues of
      human origin, in which case these framework regions of the humanized antibody are
      referred to as "fully human framework regions." Alternatively, one or more residues of
     the framework region(s) of the donor variable domain can be engineered within the
 10  corresponding position of the human framework region(s) of a variable domain in a heavy
     or light chain, or both, of a humanized antibody if necessary to maintain proper binding or
     to enhance binding to the human factor XI antigen. A human framework region that has
     been engineered in this manner would thus comprise a mixture of human and donor
     framework residues, and is referred to herein as a "partially human framework region."
 15  Given the explanations set forth in, e.g., U. S. Patent Nos. 5,585,089, 5,693,761,
     5,693,762, and 6,180,370, it will be well within the competence of those skilled in the art,
     either by carrying out routine experimentation or by trial and error testing to obtain a
     functional engineered or humanized antibody.
              For example, humanization of an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody can be
20   essentially performed following the method of Winter and co-workers (Jones et al. (1986)
    Nature 321:522-525; Riechmann et aL (1988) Nature 332:323-327; Verhoeyen et aL
     (1988) Science 239:1534-1536), by substituting rodent or mutant rodent CDRs or CDR
    sequences for the corresponding sequences of a human anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibody. See also U.S. Patent Nos. 5,225,539; 5,585,089; 5,693,761; 5,693,762;
25  5,859,205; herein incorporated by reference. The resulting humanized anti-factor XI
    monoclonal antibody would comprise at least one rodent or mutant rodent CDR within the
    fully human framework regions of the variable domain of the heavy and/or light chain of
    the humanized antibody. In some instances, residues within the framework regions of one
    or more variable domains of the humanized anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody are
30  replaced by corresponding non-human (for example, rodent) residues (see, for example,
    U.S. Patent Nos. 5,585,089; 5,693,761; 5,693,762; and 6,180,370), in which case the
    resulting humanized anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody would comprise partially human
    framework regions within the variable domain of the heavy and/or light chain.
    LEGAL02/31025285v                              - 19-                   AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

                Furthermore, humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in
       the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further
       refine antibody performance (e.g., to obtain desired affinity). In general, the humanized
       antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two, variable
   5   domains, in which all or substantially all of the CDRs correspond to those of a non-human
      immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the framework regions are those of a human
      immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least
      a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), typically that of a human
      immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et aL (1986) Nature 331:522-525;
 10   Riechmann et a. (1988) Nature 332:323-329; and Presta (1992) Curr.Op. Struct.Bio.
      2:593-596; herein incorporated by reference. Accordingly, such "humanized" antibodies
      may include antibodies wherein substantially less than an intact human variable domain
      has been substituted by the corresponding sequence from a non-human species. In
      practice, humanized antibodies are typically human antibodies in which some CDR
 15   residues and possibly some framework residues are substituted by residues from analogous
      sites in rodent antibodies. See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,225,539; 5,585,089;
      5,693,761; 5,693,762; 5,859,205. See also U.S. Patent No. 6,180,370, and International
      Publication No. WO 01/27160, where humanized antibodies and techniques for producing
      humanized antibodies having improved affinity for a predetermined antigen are disclosed.
20             As used herein the term "properly folded polypeptide" includes polypeptides (e.g.,
      anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies) in which all of the functional domains comprising
     the polypeptide are distinctly active. As used herein, the term "improperly folded
     polypeptide" includes polypeptides in which at least one of the functional domains of the
     polypeptide is not active. In one embodiment, a properly folded polypeptide comprises
25   polypeptide chains linked by at least one disulfide bond and, conversely, an improperly
     folded polypeptide comprises polypeptide chains not linked by at least one disulfide bond.
              As used herein the term "engineered" includes manipulation of nucleic acid or
     polypeptide molecules by synthetic means (e.g., by recombinant techniques, in vitro
     peptide synthesis, by enzymatic or chemical coupling of peptides or some combination of
30   these techniques).
              The term "expression" as used herein refers to a process by which a gene produces
     a biochemical, for example, a polypeptide. The process includes any manifestation of the
     functional presence of the gene within the cell including, without limitation, gene
     knockdown as well as both transient expression and stable expression. It includes without
     LEGAL02/31025285v1                           -20-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

     limitation transcription of the gene into messenger RNA (mRNA), and the translation of
     such mRNA into polypeptide(s). If the final desired product is a biochemical, expression
     includes the creation of that biochemical and any precursors. Expression of a gene
     produces a "gene product." As used herein, a gene product can be either a nucleic acid,
  5  ag., a messenger RNA produced by transcription of a gene, or a polypeptide which is
     translated from a transcript. Gene products described herein further include nucleic acids
     with post transcriptional modifications, e.g., polyadenylation, or polypeptides with post
     translational modifications, e.g., methylation, glycosylation, the addition of lipids,
     association with other protein subunits, proteolytic cleavage, and the like.
 10          As used herein, the terms "treat" or "treatment" refer to both therapeutic treatment
     and prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to prevent or slow down
     (lessen) an undesired physiological change or disorder, such as the progression of a
     disease state. Beneficial or desired clinical results include, but are not limited to,
     alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of extent of disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening)
 15 state of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the
    disease state, and remission (whether partial or total), whether detectable or undetectable.
    "Treatment" can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not
    receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition
    or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the
20  condition or disorder is to be prevented.
             By "subject" or "individual" or "animal" or "patient" or "mammal," is meant any
    subject, particularly a mammalian subject, for whom diagnosis, prognosis, or therapy is
    desired. Mammalian subjects include humans, non-human primates, domestic animals,
    farm animals, and zoo, sports, or pet animals such as dogs, cats, guinea pigs, rabbits, rats,
25  mice, horses, cattle, cows, and the like.
             As used herein, phrases such as "a subject that would benefit from administration
    of an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody" and "an animal in need of treatment" includes
    subjects, such as mammalian subjects, that would benefit from administration of an anti
    factor XI monoclonal antibody used, e.g., for inhibiting thrombosis with an anti-factor XI
30  monoclonal antibody.
             The practice of the present invention will employ, unless otherwise indicated,
    conventional techniques of cell biology, cell culture, molecular biology, transgenic
    biology, microbiology, recombinant DNA, and immunology, which are within the skill of
    the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See, for example, Sambrook
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -21  -                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

      et al., ed. (1989) Molecular CloningA LaboratoryManual (2nd ed.; Cold Spring Harbor
      Laboratory Press); Sambrook et al., ed. (1992) Molecular Cloning:A LaboratoryManual,
      (Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory, NY); D. N. Glover ed., (1985) DNA Cloning, Volumes I
      and II; Gait, ed. (1984) OligonucleotideSynthesis; Mullis et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,683,195;
  5   Hames and Higgins, eds. (1984) Nucleic Acid Hybridization;Hames and Higgins, eds.
      (1984) TranscriptionAnd Translation;Freshney (1987) Culture OfAnimal Cells (Alan R.
      Liss, Inc.); Immobilized Cells And Enzymes (IRL Press) (1986); Perbal (1984) A Practical
      Guide To Molecular Cloning; the treatise, Methods In Enzymology (Academic Press, Inc.,
     N.Y.); Miller and Calos eds. (1987) Gene Transfer Vectors For Mammalian Cells, (Cold
 10   Spring Harbor Laboratory); Wu et al., eds., Methods In Enzymology, Vols. 154 and 155;
     Mayer and Walker, eds. (1987) Immunochemical Methods In Cell And MolecularBiology
     (Academic Press, London); Weir and Blackwell, eds., (1986) Handbook Of Experimental
     Immunology, Volumes I-IV; Manipulatingthe Mouse Embryo, Cold Spring Harbor
     Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., (1986); and in Ausubel et al. (1989) Current
 15  Protocolsin MolecularBiology (John Wiley and Sons, Baltimore, Maryland).
               General principles of antibody engineering are set forth in Borrebaeck, ed. (1995)
     Antibody Engineering(2nd ed.; Oxford Univ. Press). General principles of protein
     engineering are set forth in Rickwood et al., eds. (1995) ProteinEngineering,A Practical
    Approach (IRL Press at Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford, Eng.). General principles of
20   antibodies and antibody-hapten binding are set forth in: Nisonoff (1984) Molecular
    Immunology (2nd ed.; Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, MA); and Steward (1984)
    Antibodies, Their Structure and Function (Chapman and Hall, New York, NY).
    Additionally, standard methods in immunology known in the art and not specifically
     described are generally followed as in CurrentProtocolsin Immunology, John Wiley &
25   Sons, New York; Stites et al., eds. (1994) Basic and ClinicalImmunology (8th ed;
    Appleton & Lange, Norwalk, CT) and Mishell and Shiigi (eds) (1980) Selected Methods in
    CellularImmunology (W.H. Freeman and Co., NY).
              Standard reference works setting forth general principles of immunology include
    CurrentProtocolsin Immunology, John Wiley & Sons, New York; Klein (1982).1,
30  Immunology: The Science of Self-NonseifDiscrimination(John Wiley & Sons, NY);
    Kennett et al., eds. (1980) Monoclonal Antibodies, Hybridoma:A New Dimension in
    BiologicalAnalyses (Plenum Press, NY); Campbell (1984) "Monoclonal Antibody
    Technology" in Laboratory Techniques in Biochemistry and MolecularBiology, ed.
    Burden et al., (Elsevere, Amsterdam); Goldsby et al., eds. (2000) Kuby Immunnology (4th
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -22-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

       ed.; H. Freemand & Co.); Roitt et at (2001) Immunology (6th ed.; London: Mosby);
      Abbas et al (2005) Cellularand MolecularImmunology (5th ed.; Elsevier Health
       Sciences Division); Kontermann and Dubel (200 1) Antibody Engineering (Springer
      Verlan); Sambrook and Russell (2001) Molecular Cloning:A LaboratoryManual (Cold
  5   Spring Harbor Press); Lewin (2003) Genes VIII (Prentice Hall2003); Harlow and Lane
      (1988) Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Harbor Press); Dieffenbach and
      Dveksler (2003) PCR Primer(Cold Spring Harbor Press).
      III.     Human Factor XI
 10            Human Factor XI is a two-chain glycoprotein with a molecular weight of
      approximately 160,000 daltons. The two chains are identical disulfide bonded
     polypeptides with molecular weights of approximately 80,000 daltons. Factor XI is
     activated to factor XIa by Factor XIIa. The amino acid sequence of human factor XI has
     been determined (see, e.g., Fujikawa et al. (1986) Biochemistry 25:2417-2424) and is
 15  provided as SEQ ID NO:1. In humans, the gene for FXI is located at the distal end of
     chromosome 4 (4q35.2) and contains 15 exons spread over -25 kb of genomic DNA
     (Asaki et al (1987) Biochemistry 26:7221-7228; Kato et al (1989) Cytogenet. Cell Genet.
     52:77).
              The cleavage site for the activation of factor XI by factor XIIa is an internal
20   peptide bond between Arg-369 and Ile-370 in each polypeptide chain (Fujikawa et al
     (1986) Biochemistry 25:2417-2424). Each heavy chain of factor XIa (369 amino acids)
     contains four tandem repeats of 90-91 amino acids called apple domains (designated Al
    A4) plus a short connecting peptide (Fujikawa et al. (1986) Biochemistry 25:2417-2424;
     Sun et al. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274:36373-36378). The light chains of factor XIa (each
25  238 amino acids) contain the catalytic portion of the enzyme with sequences that are
    typical of the trypsin family of serine proteases (Fujikawa et at (1986) Biochemistry
    25:2417-2424). Xa proteolytically cleaves its substrate, factor IX, in an interaction
    requiring the factor XI A3 domain (Sun, Y., and Gailani, D. (1996) J. Biol Chem.
    271, 29023-29028).
30
    IV.      Anti-Factor XI Monoclonal Antibodies
             In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibodies, including antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof As used
    herein, the term "anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody" is an antibody that specifically
                  02 52 85
    LEGALo2/3]             vl                     - 23 -                    AttvDktNo. 53362/36421?2

      recognizes human factor XI, particularly an epitope in the A3 domain of the heavy chain
      of human FXI (positions 182 to 265 of SEQ ID NO:1). In one embodiment, the epitope
      comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, or more amino acids of the A3
      domain of human FXL In another embodiment, the epitope is selected from the group
  5  consisting of: a) amino acids 183 to 197 of SEQ ID NO: 1; b) amino acids 203 to 204 of
      SEQ ID NO:1; c) amino acids 234 to 236 of SEQ ID NO:1; d) amino acids 241 to 243 of
     SEQ ID NO:1; e) amino acids 252 to 254 of SEQ ID NO:1; and f) amino acids 258 to 260
     of SEQ ID NO: 1. In particular embodiments, the epitope is selected from the group
     consisting of : a) amino acids 183 to 197 of SEQ ID NO: 1; b) amino acids 252 to 254 of
 10  SEQ ID NO:1; and c) amino acids 258 to 260 of SEQ ID NO:1.
              In another embodiment the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention
     have binding specificity to an antigen that is a peptide comprising 2 or more amino acids
     out of the A3 domain of the heavy chain of human FXI (positions 182 to 265 of SEQ ID
     NO:1). In yet another embodiment, the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the
 15  invention have binding specificity to an antigen that is a peptide comprising an amino acid
     sequence selected from the group consisting of: a) amino acids 183 to 197 of SEQ ID
    NO:1; b) amino acids 203 to 204 of SEQ ID NO:1; c) amino acids 234 to 236 of SEQ ID
    NO:1; d) amino acids 241 to 243 of SEQ ID NO: 1; e) amino acids 252 to 254 of SEQ ID
    NO: 1; and f) amino acids 258 to 260 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In particular embodiments, the
20  anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention have binding specificity to an
    antigen that is a peptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group
    consisting of: a) amino acids 183 to 197 of SEQ ID NO: 1; b) amino acids 252 to 254 of
    SEQ ID NO:1; and c) amino acids 258 to 260 of SEQ ID NO:1.
             The anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, including antigen
25  binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, are biologically active. The term
    "biologically active" as used herein refers to one or more of the following physiological
    activities associated with the antithrombotic activity of the anti-factor XI monoclonal
    antibodies of the invention: 1) inhibition of the coagulation activity of activated factor XI;
    2) prevention of the activation of factor XI; and 3) acceleration of the clearance of factor
30  XI from the circulatory system of a subject.
             In one embodiment, the term "biologically active" refers to inhibiting the
    coagulation activity of activated human factor XI. The phrase "inhibit the coagulation
    activity" as used herein refers to decreasing the ability of activated factor XI to produce
    blood clot formation. Methods for determining whether the coagulation activity has been
    LEGA L02/31025285v                             -24-                      Attvl)ktNo. 53362/364212

     inhibited include the use of assays for measuring clot strength and/or the length of time
     before clot formation in plasma or whole blood samples. Accordingly, inhibiting
     coagulation activity as used herein refers to at least partially reversing the effect of an
     coagulant, including at least 5% reversal, at least 10% reversal, at least 20% reversal, at
  5  least 30% reversal, at least 40% reversal, at least 50% reversal, at least 60% reversal, at
     least 70% reversal, at least 80% reversal, at least 90% reversal, and up to and including
     100% reversal. The term "reversal" as used herein refers to a lengthening of the time to
     onset of clot formation or a decrease in clot strength. Assays for measuring the onset of
     clot formation and clot strength are well known in the art and include activated partial
 10 thromboplastin time (APTT), thromboelastography (TEG), and continuous monitoring of
    thrombin generation using the Thrombinoscope* system (see, for example, Banez et al.
     (1980) Am. J. Clin. Pathol., 74:569-574; van den Besselaar et al. (1990) Thromb.
    Haemost., 63:16-23; Kawasaki et al. (2004) Anesthesia & Analgesia, 99:1440-1444;
    Hemker et al. (2003) Pathophysiologyof Haemostasis & Thrombosis, 33:4-15).
15           In one embodiment, the monoclonal antibody of the invention is produced by
    hybridoma cell line 1A6.
             The present invention also relates to humanized anti-factor XI antibodies that bind
    to human factor XI. In some embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention
    comprise at least one optimized complementarity-determining region (CDR). By
20  "optimized CDR" is intended that the CDR has been modified and optimized sequences
    selected based on the sustained or improved binding affinity and/or anti-factor XI activity
    that is imparted to an anti-factor Xl antibody comprising the optimized CDR. "Anti
    factor XI activity" or "factor XI blocking activity" can include one or more of the
    following physiological activities, as described elsewhere herein: 1) inhibition of the
25  coagulation activity of activated factor XI; 2) prevention of the activation of factor XI; and
    3) acceleration of the clearance of factor XI from the circulatory system of a subject.
             The modifications involve replacement of amino acid residues within the CDR
    such that an anti-factor XI antibody retains specificity for the factor XI antigen and has
    improved binding affinity and/or improved anti-factor XI activity. Anti-factor XI activity
30  of an anti-factor XI antibody of the invention is improved as compared to aXIMab (IA6)
    in a functional assay as described herein. The novel anti-factor XI antibodies of the
    invention and suitable antigen-binding fragments, variants, and derivatives thereof also
    exhibit anti-factor XI activity that is at least similar to that exhibited by aXiMab (1A6), as
    measured in standard assays. The optimized CDRs of the invention are utilized in VH and
    LEGALo2/31025285vl                            -25 -                        AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

     VL domains of the heavy and light chains, respectively, of anti-factor XI antibodies.
     Exemplary anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise a VH domain selected from
     the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:3 and 7, and/or a VL domain selected from the group
     consisting of SEQ ID NO:5 and 9.
  5           The anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise at least one optimized
     complementarity-determining region (CDR). By "optimized CDR" is intended that the
     CDR has been modified and optimized sequences selected based on the improved binding
     affinity and/or improved CDC activity that is imparted to an anti-factor XI antibody
     comprising the optimized CDR. The modifications involve replacement of amino acid
 10  residues within the CDR such that an anti-factor XI antibody retains specificity for the
     factor XI antigen and has improved or sustained binding affinity and/or anti-factor XI
     activity. Anti-factor XI activity of an anti-factor XI antibody of the invention is improved
     or sustained as compared to aXIMab (lA6) in a functional assay as described herein. The
     optimized CDRs of the invention are utilized in VH and VL domains of the heavy and light
15   chains, respectively, of anti-human factor XI antibodies. Exemplary anti-factor XI
     antibodies of the invention comprise a VH domain selected from the group consisting of
     SEQ ID NO:3 and 7, and/or a VL domain selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
    NO:5 and 9.
             In some embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise
20   optimized CDRs. That is, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise at least
     one optimized CDR amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID
    NO:10-15 or amino acid sequences having at least about 65%, about 70%, about 75%,
    about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about
    99%, or 100% sequence identity to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ
25  ID NO:10-15. That is, the optimized CDRs comprise the sequences set forth in SEQ ID
    NO:10-15 and the sequences of SEQ ID NO: 10-15 having at least one, two, three, four, or
    five amino acid substitutions, depending upon the CDR involved.
             Thus, in some embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention
    comprise a VH domain having at least one optimized CDR selected from the group
30  consisting of:
             a) a CDR comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 10, 11, or
    12; and
             b) a CDR comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 85% sequence
    identity to the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:10, 11, or 12.
    LEGAU)2/31025285v                            - 26-                      Attv)ktNo. 53362/364212

                 In other embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise a VL
        domain having at least one optimized CDR selected from the group consisting of:
                 a) a CDR comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:13, 14, or
        15; and
   5             b) a CDR comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 85% sequence
       identity to the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ IDNO:13, 14, or 15.
                 In other embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention comprise a VH
       domain and a VL domain, wherein said VH domain has at least one optimized CDR
       comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:10, I1, or 12, and wherein
 10    said VL domain has at least one optimized CDR comprising the amino acid sequence set
       forth in SEQ IDNO:13, 14, or 15.
                In some embodiments, the anti-factor XI antibodies comprising at least one of the
       optimized CDRs of the invention are IgG kappa immunoglobulins. In such embodiments,
      the IgG kappa immunoglobulin can comprise a human IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4
 15   constant region within a heavy chain of the immunoglobulin and a human kappa constant
      region within a light chain of the immunoglobulin. In particular embodiments, the IgG
      kappa immunoglobulin comprises fully or partially human framework regions within the
      variable domain of the heavy chain and within the variable domain of the light chain. In
      other embodiments, the IgG kappa immunoglobulin comprises murine framework regions
20    within the variable domain of the heavy chain and within the variable domain of the light
      chain.
               In further embodiments of the invention, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the
      invention comprise a VH domain having an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3
      or 7 and/or a VL domain having an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5 and 9,
25    or amino acid sequences having at least about 80%, 85%, about 90%, about 91%, about
      92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%
      or 100% sequence identity to a sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, 5, 7, and 9.
               In yet other embodiments of the invention, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the
     invention comprise a V8 domain, where the VH domain is selected from the group
30   consisting of:
               a) a VH domain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ IDNO:3 or
     7; and
              b) a VH domain comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 85% sequence
     identity to an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or 7.
     LEGALO2/31025285vl                           -27-                        AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

                In another embodiment of the invention, the anti-factor XI antibodies of the
        invention comprise a VL domain, where the VL domain is selected from the group
       consisting of:
               a) a VL domain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5 or
   5   9; and
               b) a VL domain comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 85% sequence
       identity to an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ IDNO:5 or 9.
               Methods for measuring anti-factor XI antibody binding specificity include, but are
       not limited to, standard competitive binding assays, assays for monitoring
 10    immunoglobulin secretion by T cells or B cells, T cell proliferation assays, apoptosis
       assays, ELISA assays, and the like. See, for example, such assays disclosed in WO
      93/14125; Shi et al.(2000) Immunity 13:633-642; Kumanogoh et a. (2002) JImmunol
       169:1175-1181; Watanabe et al. (2001) JImmunol 167:4321-4328 ; Wang et aL (2001)
      Blood 97:3498-3504; and Giraudon et al. (2004) Jmmunol 172(2):1246-1255, all of
 15   which are herein incorporated by reference.
               Suitable biologically active variants of the anti-factor XI antibodies can be used in
      the methods of the present invention. Such variants will retain the desired binding
      properties of the parent anti-factor XI antibody. Methods for making antibody variants are
      generally available in the art. For example, amino acid sequence variants of an anti-factor
20    XI antibody, an antibody region, or an antibody variable domain of a heavy or light chain,
      can be prepared by mutations in the cloned DNA sequence encoding the amino acid
      sequence of interest. Methods for mutagenesis and nucleotide sequence alterations are
     well known in the art. See, for example, Walker and Gaastra, eds. (1983) Techniques in
     MolecularBiology (MacMillan Publishing Company, New York); Kunkel (1985) Proc.
25   Nat! Acad. Sc. USA 82:488-492; Kunkel et al.(1987) Methods Enzymol. 154:367-382;
     Sambrook et at (1989) MolecularCloning: A LaboratoryManual (Cold Spring Harbor,
     New York); U.S. Patent No. 4,873,192; and the references cited therein; herein
     incorporated by reference. Guidance as to appropriate amino acid substitutions that do not
     affect biological activity of the polypeptide of interest may be found in the model of
30   Dayhoff et at. (1978) in Atlas ofProtein Sequence andStructure (Natl. Biomed. Res.
     Found., Washington, D.C.), pp. 345-352, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
     The model of Dayhoff et al. uses the Point Accepted Mutation (PAM) amino acid
     similarity matrix (PAM 250 matrix) to determine suitable conservative amino acid
     substitutions. Conservative substitutions, such as exchanging one amino acid with another
     LEGALD2/31025285vl                           -28-                        AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

   having similar properties, may be preferred. Examples of conservative amino acid
    substitutions as taught by the PAM 250 matrix of the Dayhoff et al.model include, but are
   not limited to, Gly<*Ala, ValIle<'Leu, Aspe'Glu, Lys<eArg, Asne'Gln, and
   Phe>TrpTyr.
 5          In constructing variants of the anti-factor XI antibody polypeptides of interest,
   modifications are made such that variants continue to possess the desired properties, i.e.,
   being capable of specifically binding to a human factor XI antigen expressed on the
   surface of or secreted by a human cell, and having factor XI blocking activity, as described
   herein. Obviously, any mutations made in the DNA encoding the variant polypeptide
10 must not place the sequence out of reading frame and preferably will not create
   complementary regions that could produce secondary mRNA structure. See EP Patent
   Application Publication No. 75,444.
            In addition, the constant region of an anti-factor XI antibody can be mutated to
   alter effector function in a number of ways. For example, see U.S. Patent No.
15 6,737,056B1 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0132101A1, which
   disclose Fc mutations that optimize antibody binding to Fc receptors.
            Preferably, variants of a reference anti-factor XI antibody have amino acid
   sequences that have at least about 80%, about 85%, about 88%, about 90%, about 91%,
   about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, or about 95% sequence identity to the amino acid
20 sequence for the reference anti-factor XI antibody molecule or to a shorter portion of the
   reference antibody molecule. More preferably, the molecules share at least about 96%,
   about 97%, about 98%, or about 99% sequence identity. When discussed herein, whether
   any particular polypeptide, including the constant regions, CDRs, VH domains, and VL
   domains disclosed herein, is at least about 65%, about 70%, about 75%, about 80%, about
25 85%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%,
   about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or even about 100% identical to another polypeptide
   can be determined using methods and computer programs/software known in the art such
   as, but not limited to, the BESTFIT program (Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package,
   Version 8 for Unix, Genetics Computer Group, University Research Park, 575 Science
30 Drive, Madison, WI 53711). BESTFIT uses the local homology algorithm of Smith and
   Waterman (1981) Adv. Apple. Math. 2:482489, to find the best segment of homology
   between two sequences. When using BESTFIT or any other sequence alignment program
   to determine whether a particular sequence is, for example, 95% identical to a reference
   LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -29-                       AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

    sequence according to the present invention, the parameters are set, of course, such that
    the percentage of identity is calculated over the full length of the reference polypeptide
    sequence and that gaps in homology of up to 5%of the total number of amino acids in the
    reference sequence are allowed.
 5          For purposes of the present invention, percent sequence identity is determined
   using the Smith-Waterman homology search algorithm using an affine gap search with a
    gap open penalty of 12 and a gap extension penalty of 2, BLOSUM matrix of 62. The
    Smith-Waterman homology search algorithm is taught in Smith and Waterman (1981)
   Adv. AppL Math. 2:482-489. A variant may, for example, differ from the reference anti
10  factor XI antibody by as few as 1 to 15 amino acid residues, as few as I to 10 amino acid
   residues, such as 6-10, as few as 5, as few as 4, 3, 2, or even 1 amino acid residue.
            With respect to optimal alignment of two amino acid sequences, the contiguous
   segment of the variant amino acid sequence may have additional amino acid residues or
   deleted amino acid residues with respect to the reference amino acid sequence. The
15 contiguous segment used for comparison to the reference amino acid sequence will
   include at least 20 contiguous amino acid residues, and may be 30, 40, 50, or more amino
   acid residues. Corrections for sequence identity associated with conservative residue
   substitutions or gaps can be made (see Smith-Waterman homology search algorithm).
            When any two polypeptide sequences are optimally aligned for comparison, it is
20 recognized that residues appearing opposite of one another within the alignment occupy
   positions within their respective polypeptides that correspond to one another. Such
   positions are referred to herein as "corresponding positions" and the residues residing at
   corresponding positions are referred to as "corresponding residues" or residues that
   "correspond" to one another. Thus, for example, where a polypeptide of interest is
25 optimally aligned to a reference polypeptide sequence having, for example, 10 residues,
   the residue within the polypeptide of interest appearing opposite residue 5 of the reference
   sequence is referred to as the "residue at the position corresponding to residue 5"of the
   reference sequence.
            The precise chemical structure of a polypeptide capable of specifically binding
30 factor XI and retaining the desired factor XI blocking activity depends on a number of
   factors. As ionizable amino and carboxyl groups are present in the molecule, a particular
   polypeptide may be obtained as an acidic or basic salt, or in neutral form. All such
   preparations that retain their biological activity when placed in suitable environmental
   conditions are included in the definition of anti-factor XI antibodies as used herein.
   LEGALo2/31025285vl                           -30-                        AttvktNo. 53362/364212

      Further, the primary amino acid sequence of the polypeptide may be augmented by
      derivatization using sugar moieties (glycosylation) or by other supplementary molecules
     such as lipids, phosphate, acetyl groups and the like. It may also be augmented by
     conjugation with saccharides. Certain aspects of such augmentation are accomplished
  5  through post-translational processing systems of the producing host; other such
     modifications may be introduced in vitro. In any event, such modifications are included in
     the definition of an anti-factor XI antibody used herein so long as the desired properties of
     the anti-factor XI antibody are not destroyed. It is expected that such modifications may
     quantitatively or qualitatively affect the activity, either by enhancing or diminishing the
 10  activity of the polypeptide, in the various assays. Further, individual amino acid residues
     in the chain may be modified by oxidation, reduction, or other derivatization, and the
     polypeptide may be cleaved to obtain fragments that retain activity. Such alterations that
     do not destroy the desired properties (i.e., binding specificity for factor XI and factor XI
     blocking activity) do not remove the polypeptide sequence from the definition of anti
 15  factor XI antibodies of interest as used herein.
             The art provides substantial guidance regarding the preparation and use of
    polypeptide variants. In preparing the anti-factor XI antibody variants, one of skill in the
     art can readily determine which modifications to the native protein nucleotide or amino
     acid sequence will result in a variant that is suitable for use as a therapeutically active
20  component of a pharmaceutical composition used in the methods of the present invention.
             In certain anti-factor XI antibodies, the FEc portion may be mutated to decrease
    effector function using techniques known in the art. For example, the deletion or
    inactivation (through point mutations or other means) of a constant region domain may
    reduce Fc receptor binding of the circulating modified antibody thereby increasing tumor
25  localization. In other cases it may be that constant region modifications consistent with
    the instant invention moderate complement binding and thus reduce the serum half life and
    nonspecific association of a conjugated cytotoxin. Yet other modifications of the constant
    region may be used to modify disulfide linkages or oligosaccharide moieties that allow for
    enhanced localization due to increased antigen specificity or antibody flexibility. The
30  resulting physiological profile, bioavailability and other biochemical effects of the
    modifications, such as tumor localization, biodistribution and serum half-life, may easily
    be measured and quantified using well known immunological techniques without undue
    experimentation.
    LEGALO2/31025285vl                            -31 -                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

                Anti-factor XI antibodies of the invention also include derivatives that are
        modified, e.g., by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule to the antibody such
        that covalent attachment does not prevent the antibody from specifically binding to its
        cognate epitope. For example, but not by way of limitation, the antibody derivatives
   5    include antibodies that have been modified, e.g., by glycosylation, acetylation, pegylation,
       phosphorylation, amidation, derivatization by known protecting/blocking groups,
       proteolytic cleavage, linkage to a cellular ligand or other protein, etc. Any of numerous
       chemical modifications may be carried out by known techniques, including, but not
       limited to specific chemical cleavage, acetylation, formylation, etc. Additionally, the
 10    derivative may contain one or more non-classical amino acids.
               A "conservative amino acid substitution" is one in which the amino acid residue is
       replaced with an amino acid residue having a side chain with a similar charge. Families of
       amino acid residues having side chains with similar charges have been defined in the art.
      These families include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine),
 15   acidic side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g.,
      glycine, asparagine, glutamine, seine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains
      (e.g., alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan),
      beta-branched side chains ( e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains
      (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine). Alternatively, mutations can be
20    introduced randomly along all or part of the coding sequence, such as by saturation
      mutagenesis, and the resultant mutants can be screened for biological activity to identify
      mutants that retain activity (e.g., the ability to bind an anti-factor XI polypeptide).
               For example, it is possible to introduce mutations only in framework regions or
      only in CDR regions of an antibody molecule. Introduced mutations may be silent or
25   neutral missense mutations, i.e., have no, or little, effect on an antibody's ability to bind
     antigen. These types of mutations may be useful to optimize codon usage, or improve a
     hybridoma's antibody production. Alternatively, non-neutral missense mutations may alter
     an antibody's ability to bind antigen. The location of most silent and neutral missense
     mutations is likely to be in the framework regions, while the location of most non-neutral
30   missense mutations is likely to be in CDR, though this is not an absolute requirement.
     One of skill in the art would be able to design and test mutant molecules with desired
     properties such as no alteration in antigen binding activity or alteration in binding activity
     (e.g., improvements in antigen binding activity or change in antibody specificity).
     Following mutagenesis, the encoded protein may routinely be expressed and the functional
     LEGALO2/31025285vl                             -32-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

       and/or biological activity of the encoded protein, (e.g., ability to immunospecifically bind
       at least one epitope of a factor XI polypeptide) can be determined using techniques
       described herein or by routinely modifying techniques known in the art.
   5  V.        Fusion Proteins and Antibody Coniupates
                Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or antigen-binding
      fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, may further be recombinantly fused to a
      heterologous polypeptide at the N- or C-terminus or chemically conjugated (including
      covalent and non-covalent conjugations) to polypeptides or other compositions. For
 10   example, anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies may be recombinantly fused or conjugated
      to molecules useful as labels in detection assays and effector molecules such as
      heterologous polypeptides, drugs, radionuclides, or toxins. See, e.g., PCT publications
      WO 92/08495; WO 91/14438; WO 89/12624; U.S. Patent No. 5,314,995; and EP 396,387.
               The present invention also provides for fusion proteins comprising an anti-factor
 15  XI antibody, or antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, and a
     heterologous polypeptide. For example, the heterologous polypeptide to which the
     antibody is fused may be useful for function, may increase the in vivo half life of the
     polypeptides, or may be a marker sequence that facilitates purification or detection (see,
     e.g., Leong et al. (2001) Cytokine 16:106; Adv. in Drug Deliv. Rev. (2002) 54:531; Weir et
20   al. (2002) Biochem. Soc. Transactions30:512; Gentz et al. (1989) Proc.Natd.Acad. Scl.
     USA 86:821-824; Wilson et al. (1984) Cell 37:767)
               Fusion proteins can be prepared using methods that are well known in the art (see
     for example U.S. Patent Nos. 5,116,964 and 5,225,538). The precise site at which the
     fusion is made may be selected empirically to optimize the binding characteristics of the
25   fusion protein. DNA encoding the fusion protein is then transfected into a host cell for
     expression.
               Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the present invention, or antigen-binding
     fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, may be used in non-conjugated form or may be
     conjugated to at least one of a variety of molecules, e.g., to improve the therapeutic
30   properties of the molecule, to facilitate target detection, or for imaging or therapy of a
     subject. In particular, Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or antigen
     binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, may be conjugated to therapeutic
     agents, prodrugs, peptides, proteins, enzymes, viruses, lipids, biological response
     modifiers, pharmaceutical agents, or PEG. Techniques for conjugating various moieties to
     LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -33  -                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

      an anti-factor XI antibody, or antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, are
      well known, see, e.g., Amon et al. (1985) "Monoclonal Antibodies for Immunotargeting
      of Drugs in Cancer Therapy," in MonoclonalAntibodies and Cancer Therapy, ed. Reisfeld
      et al. (Alan R. Liss, Inc.), pp. 243-56; Hellstrom et al. (1987) "Antibodies for Drug
  5   Delivery," in ControlledDrugDelivery, ed. Robinson et al. (2nd ed.; Marcel Dekker,
     Inc.), pp. 623-53); Thorpe (1985) "Antibody Carriers of Cytotoxic Agents in Cancer
     Therapy: A Review," in MonoclonalAntibodies '84: Biologicaland ClinicalApplications,
     ed. Pinchera et al., pp. 475-506; "Analysis, Results, and Future Prospective of the
     Therapeutic Use of Radiolabeled Antibody in Cancer Therapy," in Monoclonal Antibodies
 10 for CancerDetection and Therapy, ed. Baldwin et al., Academic Press, pp. 303-16 (1985);
     and Thorpe et al. (1982) "The Preparation and Cytotoxic Properties of Antibody-Toxin
     Conjugates," Immunol. Rev. 62:119-58.
     VI.       Polvnucleotides Encoding Anti-Factor XI Antibodies
 15            The present invention also provides for nucleic acid molecules encoding anti-factor
     XI antibodies of the invention, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives
     thereof.
               In one embodiment, the present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide
    comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding an
20  immunoglobulin heavy chain domain (VH domain), where at least one of the CDRs of the
    VH domain has an amino acid sequence that is at least about 80%, about 85%, about 90%,
    about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or identical to any one of
    SEQ ID NOS:10-12.
              In another embodiment, the present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide
25  comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding an
    immunoglobulin light chain domain (VL domain), where at least one of the CDRs of the
    VL domain has an amino acid sequence that is at least about 80%, about 85%, about 90%,
    about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or identical to any one of
    SEQ ID NOS:13-15.
30            In a further embodiment, the present invention includes an isolated polynucleotide
    comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding a V domain
    that has an amino acid sequence that is at least about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about
    91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%,
    LEGALO2/31025285vl                            - 34-                     AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

        about 99%, or 100% identical to a reference VH domain polypeptide sequence selected
        from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:3 and 7, wherein an anti-factor XI antibody
       comprising the encoded VH domain specifically or preferentially binds to factor XI.
               In a further embodiment, the present invention includes an isolated polynucleotide
   5   comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid encoding a VL domain
       that has an amino acid sequence that is at least about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about
       91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%,
       about 99%, or 100% identical to a reference VL domain polypeptide sequence selected
       from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:5 and 9, wherein an anti-factor XI antibody
 10    comprising the encoded VL domain specifically or preferentially binds to factor XL
               In another embodiment, the present invention provides an isolated polynucleotide
      comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a nucleic acid that
      is at least about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about
      94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or 100% identical to a
 15   reference polynucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS:2,
      4, 6, and 8.
               Any of the polynucleotides described above may further include additional nucleic
      acids, encoding, e.g., a signal peptide to direct secretion of the encoded polypeptide,
      antibody constant regions as described herein, or other heterologous polypeptides as
20    described herein. Also, as described in more detail elsewhere herein, the present invention
      includes compositions comprising one or more of the polynucleotides described above. in
      one embodiment, the invention includes compositions comprising a first polynucleotide
      and second polynucleotide wherein said first polynucleotide encodes a VH domain as
      described herein and wherein said second polynucleotide encodes a VL domain as
25    described herein. Specifically a composition which comprises, consists essentially of, or
      consists of a VH domain selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:3 and 7, and/or
      a VL domain selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:5 and 9.
              The present invention also includes fragments of the polynucleotides of the
     invention, as described elsewhere. Additionally polynucleotides that encode fusion
30   polypolypeptides, Fab fragments, and other derivatives, as described herein, are also
     contemplated by the invention.
              The polynucleotides may be produced or manufactured by any method known in
     the art. For example, if the nucleotide sequence of the antibody is known, a polynucleotide
     encoding the antibody may be assembled from chemically synthesized oligonucleotides
     LFGAL02/31025285v1                           -35  -                     AttvDktNo. 53362/64212

     (e.g., as described in Kutmeier et al.(1994) BioTechniques 17:242), which, briefly,
     involves the synthesis of overlapping oligonucleotides containing portions of the sequence
     encoding the antibody, annealing and ligating of those oligonucleotides, and then
     amplification of the ligated oligonucleotides by PCR.
  5           Alternatively, a polynucleotide encoding an anti-factor XI antibody, or antigen
     binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, may be generated from nucleic acid from
     a suitable source. If a clone containing a nucleic acid encoding a particular antibody is not
     available, but the sequence of the antibody molecule is known, a nucleic acid encoding the
     antibody may be chemically synthesized or obtained from a suitable source (e.g., an
 10  antibody cDNA library, or a cDNA library generated from, or nucleic acid, preferably
     poly A+RNA, isolated from, any tissue or cells expressing the antibody or other anti-factor
     XI antibody, such as hybridoma cells selected to express an antibody) by PCR
     amplification using synthetic primers hybridizable to the 3' and 5' ends of the sequence or
    by cloning using an oligonucleotide probe specific for the particular gene sequence to
15   identify, e.g., a cDNA clone from a cDNA library that encodes the antibody or other anti
     factor XI antibody. Amplified nucleic acids generated by PCR may then be cloned into
     replicable cloning vectors using any method well known in the art.
             Once the nucleotide sequence and corresponding amino acid sequence of the anti
    factor XI antibody, or antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof is
20  determined, its nucleotide sequence may be manipulated using methods well known in the
    art for the manipulation of nucleotide sequences, e.g., recombinant DNA techniques, site
    directed mutagenesis, PCR, etc. (see, for example, the techniques described in Sambrook
    et al. (1990) Molecular Cloning, A LaboratoryManual (2nd ed.; Cold Spring Harbor
    Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY) and Ausubel et al., eds. (1998) CurrentProtocols
25  in MolecularBiology (John Wiley & Sons, NY), which are both incorporated by reference
    herein in their entireties), to generate antibodies having a different amino acid sequence,
    for example to create amino acid substitutions, deletions, and/or insertions.
             A polynucleotide encoding an anti-factor XI antibody, or antigen-binding
    fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, can be composed of any polyribonucleotide or
30  polydeoxribonucleotide, which may be unmodified RNA or DNA or modified RNA or
    DNA. For example, a polynucleotide encoding anti-factor XI antibody, or antigen-binding
    fragment, variant, or derivative thereof can be composed of single- and double-stranded
    DNA, DNA that is a mixture of single- and double-stranded regions, single- and double
    stranded RNA, and RNA that is mixture of single- and double-stranded regions, hybrid
    LFGAL02/31025285vl                            -36-                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

     molecules comprising DNA and RNA that may be single-stranded or, more typically,
     double-stranded or a mixture of single- and double-stranded regions. In addition, a
     polynucleotide encoding an anti-factor XI antibody, or antigen-binding fragment, variant,
     or derivative thereof can be composed of triple-stranded regions comprising RNA or DNA
  5  or both RNA and DNA. A polynucleotide encoding an anti-factor XI antibody, or
     antigen-binding fragment, variant, or derivative thereof, may also contain one or more
     modified bases or DNA or RNA backbones modified for stability or for other reasons.
     "Modified" bases include, for example, tritylated bases and unusual bases such as inosine.
     A variety of modifications can be made to DNA and RNA; thus, "polynucleotide"
 10  embraces chemically, enzymatically, or metabolically modified forms.
             An isolated polynucleotide encoding a non-natural variant of a polypeptide derived
     from an immunoglobulin (e.g., an immunoglobulin heavy chain portion or light chain
    portion) can be created by introducing one or more nucleotide substitutions, additions or
    deletions into the nucleotide sequence of the immunoglobulin such that one or more amino
15  acid substitutions, additions or deletions are introduced into the encoded protein.
    Mutations may be introduced by standard techniques, such as site-directed mutagenesis
    and PCR-mediated mutagenesis. Preferably, conservative amino acid substitutions are
    made at one or more non-essential amino acid residues.
20  VIL.     Expression of Antibody Polypeptides
             DNA sequences that encode the light and the heavy chains of the antibody may be
    made, either simultaneously or separately, using reverse transcriptase and DNA
    polymerase in accordance with well known methods. PCR may be initiated by consensus
    constant region primers or by more specific primers based on the published heavy and
25  light chain DNA and amino acid sequences. As discussed above, PCR also may be used
    to isolate DNA clones encoding the antibody light and heavy chains. In this case the
    libraries may be screened by consensus primers or larger homologous probes, such as
    mouse constant region probes.
            DNA, typically plasmid DNA, may be isolated from the cells using techniques
30  known in the art, restriction mapped and sequenced in accordance with standard, well
    known techniques set forth in detail, e.g., in the foregoing references relating to
    recombinant DNA techniques. Of course, the DNA may be synthetic according to the
    present invention at any point during the isolation process or subsequent analysis.
    LEGALO2/31025285v                           -37 -                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

            Following manipulation of the isolated genetic material to provide anti-factor XI
   antibodies, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, of the invention,
   the polynucleotides encoding the anti-factor XI antibodies are typically inserted in an
   expression vector for introduction into host cells that may be used to produce the desired
 5 quantity of anti-factor XI antibody.
            Recombinant expression of an antibody, or fragment, derivative or analog thereof,
   e.g., a heavy or light chain of an antibody that binds to a target molecule described herein,
   e.g., factor XI, requires construction of an expression vector containing a polynucleotide
   that encodes the antibody. Once a polynucleotide encoding an antibody molecule or a
10 heavy or light chain of an antibody, or portion thereof (preferably containing the heavy or
   light chain variable domain), of the invention has been obtained, the vector for the
   production of the antibody molecule may be produced by recombinant DNA technology
   using techniques well known in the art. Thus, methods for preparing a protein by
   expressing a polynucleotide containing an antibody encoding nucleotide sequence are
15 described herein. Methods that are well known to those skilled in the art can be used to
   construct expression vectors containing antibody coding sequences and appropriate
   transcriptional and translational control signals. These methods include, for example, in
   vitro recombinant DNA techniques, synthetic techniques, and in vivo genetic
   recombination. The invention, thus, provides replicable vectors comprising a nucleotide
20 sequence encoding an antibody molecule of the invention, or a heavy or light chain
   thereof, or a heavy or light chain variable domain, operably linked to a promoter. Such
   vectors may include the nucleotide sequence encoding the constant region of the antibody
   molecule (see, e.g., PCT Publication WO 86/05807; PCT Publication WO 89/01036; and
   U.S. Patent No. 5,122,464) and the variable domain of the antibody may be cloned into
25 such a vector for expression of the entire heavy or light chain.
            The term "vector" or "expression vector" is used herein to mean vectors used in
   accordance with the present invention as a vehicle for introducing into and expressing a
   desired gene in a host cell. As known to those skilled in the art, such vectors may easily
   be selected from the group consisting of plasmids, phages, viruses and retroviruses. In
30 general, vectors compatible with the instant invention will comprise a selection marker,
   appropriate restriction sites to facilitate cloning of the desired gene and the ability to enter
   and/or replicate in eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells.
   LEGAL02/31025285vl                             -38-                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

              For the purposes of this invention, numerous expression vector systems may be
     employed. For example, one class of vector utilizes DNA elements that are derived from
     animal viruses such as bovine papilloma virus, polyoma virus, adenovirus, vaccinia virus,
     baculovirus, retroviruses (RSV, MMTV or MOMLV) or SV40 virus. Others involve the
  5  use of polycistronic systems with internal ribosome binding sites. Additionally, cells that
    have integrated the DNA into their chromosomes may be selected by introducing one or
     more markers which allow selection of transfected host cells. The marker may provide for
    prototrophy to an auxotrophic host, biocide resistance (e.g., antibiotics) or resistance to
    heavy metals such as copper. The selectable marker gene can either be directly linked to
10  the DNA sequences to be expressed, or introduced into the same cell by cotransformation.
    Additional elements may also be needed for optimal synthesis of mRNA. These elements
    may include signal sequences, splice signals, as well as transcriptional promoters,
    enhancers, and termination signals.
             In particularly preferred embodiments the cloned variable region genes are inserted
15  into an expression vector along with the heavy and light chain constant region genes
    (preferably human) synthesized as discussed above. Of course, any expression vector that
    is capable of eliciting expression in eukaryotic cells may be used in the present invention.
    Examples of suitable vectors include, but are not limited to plasmids pcDNA3,
    pHCMV/Zeo, pCR3.1, pEFl/His, pIND/GS, pRc/HCMV2, pSV40/Zeo2, pTRACER
20  HCMV, pUB6/V5-His, pVAX1, and pZeoSV2 (available from Invitrogen, San Diego,
    CA), and plasmid pCI (available from Promega, Madison, WI). In general, screening
    large numbers of transformed cells for those that express suitably high levels if
    immunoglobulin heavy and light chains is routine experimentation that can be carried out,
    for example, by robotic systems.
25          More generally, once the vector or DNA sequence encoding a monomeric subunit
    of the anti-factor XI antibody has been prepared, the expression vector may be introduced
    into an appropriate host cell. Introduction of the plasmid into the host cell can be
    accomplished by various techniques well known to those of skill in the art. These include,
    but are not limited to, transfection (including electrophoresis and electroporation),
30  protoplast fusion, calcium phosphate precipitation, cell fusion with enveloped DNA,
    microinjection, and infection with intact virus. See, Ridgway (1988) "Mammalian
    Expression Vectors" in Vectors, ed. Rodriguez and Denhardt (Butterworths, Boston,
    Mass.), Chapter 24.2, pp. 470-472. Typically, plasmid introduction into the host is via
    electroporation. The host cells harboring the expression construct are grown under
    LFGAL02/31025285v1                           -39-                      AttyDktNo. 53362/364212

       conditions appropriate to the production of the light chains and heavy chains, and assayed
       for heavy and/or light chain protein synthesis. Exemplary assay techniques include
       enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), radioimunoassay (RIA), or fluorescence
       activated cell sorter analysis (FACS), immunohistochemistry and the like.
   5           The expression vector is transferred to a host cell by conventional techniques, and
       the transfected cells are then cultured by conventional techniques to produce an antibody
       for use in the methods described herein. Thus, the invention includes host cells containing
      a polynucleotide encoding an antibody of the invention, or a heavy or light chain thereof,
      operably linked to a heterologous promoter. In preferred embodiments for the expression
 10   of double-chained antibodies, vectors encoding both the heavy and light chains may be co
      expressed in the host cell for expression of the entire immunoglobulin molecule, as
      detailed below.
               As used herein, "host cells" refers to cells that harbor vectors constructed using
      recombinant DNA techniques and encoding at least one heterologous gene. In
 15   descriptions of processes for isolation of antibodies from recombinant hosts, the terms
      "cell" and "cell culture" are used interchangeably to denote the source of antibody unless it
      is clearly specified otherwise. In other words, recovery of polypeptide from the "cells"
      may mean either from spun down whole cells, or from the cell culture containing both the
      medium and the suspended cells.
20            A variety of host-expression vector systems may be utilized to express antibody
      molecules for use in the methods described herein. Such host-expression systems represent
     vehicles by which the coding sequences of interest may be produced and subsequently
     purified, but also represent cells that may, when transformed or transfected with the
     appropriate nucleotide coding sequences, express an antibody molecule of the invention in
25   situ. These include, but are not limited to, microorganisms such as bacteria (e.g., K coli,
     B. subtilis) transformed with recombinant bacteriophage DNA, plasmid DNA or cosmid
     DNA expression vectors containing antibody coding sequences; yeast (e.g.,
     Saccharomyces, Pichia) transformed with recombinant yeast expression vectors
     containing antibody coding sequences; insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus
30   expression vectors (e.g., baculovirus) containing antibody coding sequences; plant cell
     systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., cauliflower mosaic
     virus, CaMV; tobacco mosaic virus, TMV) or transformed with recombinant plasmid
     expression vectors (e.g., Ti plasmid) containing antibody coding sequences; or mammalian
     cell systems (e.g., COS, CHO, BLK, 293, 3T3 cells) harboring recombinant expression
     LEGALo2/31025285vl                           -40-                         AttvDktNn 53362/364219

     constructs containing promoters derived from the genome of mammalian cells (e.g.,
     metallothionein promoter) or from mammalian viruses (e.g., the adenovirus late promoter;
     the vaccinia virus 7.5K promoter). Preferably, bacterial cells such as Escherichiacoli, and
     more preferably, eukaryotic cells, especially for the expression of whole recombinant
  5  antibody molecule, are used for the expression of a recombinant antibody molecule. For
     example, mammalian cells such as Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO), in conjunction
     with a vector such as the major intermediate early gene promoter element from human
     cytomegalovirus is an effective expression system for antibodies (Foecking et al. (1986)
     Gene 45:101; Cockett et al. (1990) Bio/Technology 8:2).
 10           The host cell line used for protein expression is often of mammalian origin; those
     skilled in the art are credited with ability to preferentially determine particular host cell
     lines that are best suited for the desired gene product to be expressed therein. Exemplary
    host cell lines include, but are not limited to, CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovary), DG44 and
     DUXB 11 (Chinese Hamster Ovary lines, DHFR minus), HELA (human cervical
15  carcinoma), CVI (monkey kidney line), COS (a derivative of CVI with SV40 T antigen),
    VERY, BHK (baby hamster kidney), MDCK, 293, W138, R1610 (Chinese hamster
    fibroblast) BALBC/3T3 (mouse fibroblast), HAK (hamster kidney line), SP2/O (mouse
    myeloma), P3x63-Ag3.653 (mouse myeloma), BFA-lclBPT (bovine endothelial cells),
    RAJI (human lymphocyte) and 293 (human kidney). Host cell lines are typically available
20  from commercial services, the American Tissue Culture Collection or from published
    literature.
             In addition, a host cell strain may be chosen that modulates the expression of the
    inserted sequences, or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion
    desired. Such modifications (e.g., glycosylation) and processing (e.g., cleavage) of protein
25  products may be important for the function of the protein. Different host cells have
    characteristic and specific mechanisms for the post-translational processing and
    modification of proteins and gene products. Appropriate cell lines or host systems can be
    chosen to ensure the correct modification and processing of the foreign protein expressed.
    To this end, eukaryotic host cells that possess the cellular machinery for proper processing
30  of the primary transcript, glycosylation, and phosphorylation of the gene product may be
    used.
             For long-term, high-yield production of recombinant proteins, stable expression is
    preferred. For example, cell lines that stably express the antibody molecule may be
    engineered. Rather than using expression vectors that contain viral origins of replication,
    LFGALO2/31025285v1                             -41 -                      AftnfetNn SIAI2/IA,)17

     host cells can be transformed with DNA controlled by appropriate expression control
     elements (e.g., promoter, enhancer, sequences, transcription terminators, polyadenylation
     sites, etc.), and a selectable marker. Following the introduction of the foreign DNA,
     engineered cells may be allowed to grow for 1-2 days in an enriched media, and then are
  5  switched to a selective media. The selectable marker in the recombinant plasmid confers
     resistance to the selection and allows cells to stably integrate the plasmid into their
     chromosomes and grow to form foci which in turn can be cloned and expanded into cell
     lines. This method may advantageously be used to engineer cell lines which stably
     express the antibody molecule.
 10           A number of selection systems may be used, including, but not limited to, the
    herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (Wigler et al. (1977) Cell 11:223), hypoxanthine
     guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (Szybalska and Szybalski (1992) Proc.Natl.Acad. Sci.
     USA 48:202), and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (Lowy et al (1980) Cell 22:817)
    genes can be employed in tk-, hgprt- or aprt-cells, respectively. Also, antimetabolite
 15 resistance can be used as the basis of selection for the following genes: dhfr, which
    confers resistance to methotrexate (Wigler et al.(1980) Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:357;
    O'Hare et al. (1981) Proc.Natt Acad. Sci. USA 78:1527); gpt, which confers resistance to
    mycophenolic acid (Mulligan and Berg (1981) Proc. Natl.Acad. Sct USA 78:2072); neo,
    which confers resistance to the aminoglycoside G-418 ClinicalPharmacy 12:488-505; Wu
20  and Wu (1991) Biotherapy 3:87-95; Tolstoshev (1993) Ann. Rev. Pharmacol Toxicol.
    32:573-596; Mulligan (1993) Science 260:926-932; and Morgan and Anderson (1993)
    Ann. Rev. Biochem. 62:191-217 (1993); TIB TECH 11(5):155-215 (May, 1993); and
    hygro, which confers resistance to hygromycin (Santerre et al. (1984) Gene 30:147.
    Methods commonly known in the art of recombinant DNA technology which can be used
25  are described in Ausubel et al (1993) Current Protocolsin MolecularBiology (John
    Wiley & Sons, NY); Kriegler (1990) "Gene Transfer and Expression" in A Laboratory
    Manual (Stockton Press, NY); Dracopoli et al.(eds) (1994) CurrentProlocolsin Human
    Genetics (John Wiley & Sons, NY) Chapters 12 and 13; Colberre-Garapin et al. (1981) J.
    Mol. Biol. 150:1, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
30           The expression levels of an antibody molecule can be increased by vector
    amplification (for a review, see Bebbington and Hentschel (1987) "The Use of Vectors
    Based on Gene Amplification for the Expression of Cloned Genes in Mammalian Cells in
    DNA Cloning" (Academic Press, NY) Vol. 3. When a marker in the vector system
    expressing antibody is amplifiable, increase in the level of inhibitor present in culture of
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                           -42-                        AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

    host cell will increase the number of copies of the marker gene. Since the amplified
    region is associated with the antibody gene, production of the antibody will also increase
    (Crouse et al. (1983) Mo. Cell. Biol. 3:257).
             In vitro production allows scale-up to give large amounts of the desired
 5  polypeptides. Techniques for mammalian cell cultivation under tissue culture conditions
    are known in the art and include homogeneous suspension culture, e.g. in an airlift reactor
    or in a continuous stirrer reactor, or immobilized or entrapped cell culture, e.g. in hollow
    fibers, microcapsules, on agarose microbeads or ceramic cartridges. If necessary and/or
    desired, the solutions of polypeptides can be purified by the customary chromatography
10 methods, for example gel filtration, ion-exchange chromatography, chromatography over
   DEAE-cellulose or (immuno-)affinity chromatography, e.g., after preferential biosynthesis
   of a synthetic hinge region polypeptide or prior to or subsequent to the HIC
   chromatography step described herein.
            Genes encoding anti-factor XI antibodies, or antigen-binding fragments, variants,
15 or derivatives thereof of the invention can also be expressed in non-mammalian cells such
   as bacteria or yeast or plant cells. Bacteria that readily take up nucleic acids include
   members of the enterobacteriaceae, such as strains of Escherichiacoli or Salmonella;
   Bacillaceae, such as Bacillussubtilis; Pneumococcus; Streptococcus, and Haemophilus
   influenzae. It will further be appreciated that, when expressed in bacteria, the
20 heterologous polypeptides typically become part of inclusion bodies. The heterologous
   polypeptides must be isolated, purified and then assembled into functional molecules.
   Where tetravalent forms of antibodies are desired, the subunits will then self-assemble into
   tetravalent antibodies (WO 02/096948A2).
            In bacterial systems, a number of expression vectors may be advantageously
25 selected depending upon the use intended for the antibody molecule being expressed. For
   example, when a large quantity of such a protein is to be produced, for the generation of
   pharmaceutical compositions of an antibody molecule, vectors which direct the expression
   of high levels of fusion protein products that are readily purified may be desirable. Such
   vectors include, but are not limited, to the E. coli expression vector pUR278 (Ruther et at.
30 (1983) EMBO J. 2:1791), in which the antibody coding sequence may be ligated
   individually into the vector in frame with the lacZ coding region so that a fusion protein is
   produced; pIN vectors (Inouye and Inouye (1985) Nucleic Acids Res. 13:3101-3109; Van
   Heeke and Schuster (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 24:5503-5509); and the like. pGEX vectors
   may also be used to express foreign polypeptides as fusion proteins with glutathione S
   LEGA L2/31025285v                            -43  -                     AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

      transferase (GST). In general, such fusion proteins are soluble and can easily be purified
      from lysed cells by adsorption and binding to a matrix glutathione-agarose beads followed
      by elution in the presence of free glutathione. The pGEX vectors are designed to include
      thrombin or factor Xa protease cleavage sites so that the cloned target gene product can be
  5   released from the GST moiety.
              In addition to prokaryotes, eukaryotic microbes may also be used. Saccharomyces
      cerevisiae, or common baker's yeast, is the most commonly used among eukaryotic
      microorganisms although a number of other strains are commonly available, e.g., Pichia
     pastors.
 10           For expression in Saccharomyces, the plasmid YRp7, for example, (Stinchcomb et
     al. (1979) Nature282:39; Kingsman et al. (1979) Gene 7:141; Tschemper et al. (1980)
     Gene 10:157) is commonly used. This plasmid already contains the TRP1 gene, which
     provides a selection marker for a mutant strain of yeast lacking the ability to grow in
     tryptophan, for example ATCC No. 44076 or PEP4-1 (Jones (1977) Genetics 85:12). The
 15  presence of the trpl lesion as a characteristic of the yeast host cell genome then provides
     an effective environment for detecting transformation by growth in the absence of
     tryptophan.
             In an insect system, Autographa californicanuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcNPV) is
     typically used as a vector to express foreign genes. The virus grows in Spodoptera
20  frugiperda cells. The antibody coding sequence may be cloned individually into non
     essential regions (for example the polyhedrin gene) of the virus and placed under control
     of an AcNPV promoter (for example the polyhedrin promoter).
             Once an antibody molecule of the invention has been recombinantly expressed, it
     may be purified by any method known in the art for purification of an immunoglobulin
25   molecule, for example, by chromatography (e.g., ion exchange, affinity, particularly by
    affinity for the specific antigen after Protein A, and sizing column chromatography),
    centrifugation, differential solubility, or by any other standard technique for the
    purification of proteins. Alternatively, a preferred method for increasing the affinity of
    antibodies of the invention is disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002
30  0123057 Al.
    LEGALo2/31025285v1                           -44-                         AttvDktNn 53692164212

     VIn.     Methods of Use for Anti-factor XI Monoclonal Antibodies
              Methods of the invention are directed to the use of anti-factor XI monoclonal
     antibodies, including antigen-binding fragments, variants, and derivatives thereof,
     to inhibit thrombosis in a subject in need thereof. Though the following discussion refers
  5  to methods and treatment of various diseases and disorders with anti-factor XI monoclonal
     antibody of the invention, the methods described herein are also applicable to the antigen
     binding fragments, variants, and derivatives of these anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies
     that retain the desired properties of the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the
     invention, i.e., capable of specifically binding human factor XI and being able to inhibit
 10  the coagulation activity of human factor X.
             Anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention may be administered to any
     subject in which inhibition of thrombosis would be beneficial. In particular, it is
     contemplated that the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention are
    particularly useful as antithrombotic agents that do not compromise hemostasis, and as
15  such are superior alternatives to traditional antithrombotic agents.
             In one embodiment, the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention may
    be used to treat conditions characterized by vascular occlusions, such as those that occur
    as a result of thrombus formation. Conditions that are characterized by vascular
    occlusions and justify treatment or prevention using anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies
20  of the include those that involve the arterial, capillary, and venous vasculature.
             In the coronary arteries, occlusive thrombus formation often follows the rupture of
    atherosclerotic plaque. This occlusion is the major cause of acute myocardial infarction
    and unstable angina. Coronary occlusions can also occur following infections,
    inflammation, thrombolytic therapy, angioplasty, and graft placements. Similar principles
25  apply to other parts of the arterialvasculature and include, among others, thrombus
    formation in the carotid arteries, which is the major cause of transient or permanent
    cerebral ischemia and stroke.
             Venous thrombosis often follows stasis, infections, inflammatory reactions, and
    major surgery of the lower extremities or the abdominal area. Deep vein thrombosis
30  results in reduced blood flow from the area distal to the thrombus and predisposes to
    pulmonary embolism. Pulmonary embolism is a major cause of post-surgical mortality.
    Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and acute respiratory distress syndrome
    (ARDS) where the monoclonal antibodies of this invention are useful commonly occur
    within all vascular systems during bacterial sepsis, entry of foreign material into the blood
    LEGALO2/31025285vl                           -45-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

        stream following, e.g., trauma and child birth, immune reactions, inflammation, certain
        viral infections, certain platelet disorders, and cancer. Disseminated intravascular
       coagulation is a severe complication of many disease conditions and some drug
       treatments, including, for example, heparin. Thrombotic consumption of coagulation
   5   factors and platelets, and systemic coagulation results in the formation of life-threatening
       thrombi occurring throughout the microvasculature leading to local or widespread hypoxia
       and organ failure.
                Thus, in one embodiment, a method is provided for inhibiting thrombosis in a
       subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject an effective dose of an anti
 10    factor XI monoclonal antibody of the invention, particularly where the thrombosis is
       associated with: 1)acute coronary syndromes auch as myocardial infarction, unstable
       angina, refractory angina, occlusive coronary thrombus occurring post-thrombolytic
      therapy or post-coronary angioplasty; 2) ischemic cerebrovascular syndromes including
      embolic stroke, thrombotic stroke, or transient ischemic attacks; 3) thrombosis occurring
 15   in the venous system occurring either spontaneously or in the setting of malignancy,
      trauma, or surgery, including pulmonary thromboembolism; 4) any coagulopathy
      including ARDS and DIC, e.g., in the setting of sepsis or other infection, surgery,
      pregnancy, trauma, or malignancy and whether associated with multi-organ failure or not,
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, thromboangiitis obliterans, or thrombotic disease
20    associated with heparin induced thrombocytopenia; 5) thrombotic complications
      associated with extracorporeal circulation (e.g., renal dialysis, cardiopulmonary bypass or
      other oxygenation procedure, and plasmaphoresis); 6) thrombotic complications associated
      with instrumentation (e.g. cardiac or other intravascular catheterization, intraaortic balloon
     pump, and coronary stent or cardiac valve); and 7) complications associated with fitting of
25   prosthetic devices.
               As described elsewhere herein, traditional antithrombotic agents are dangerous or
     even fatal when administered at their maximally effective doses. Accordingly, in another
     embodiment a method is provided for reducing a required dose or complementing the
     effect of an antithrombotic agent in the treatment of thrombosis in a subject in need
30   thereof comprising administering to the subject an effective dose of an anti-factorXI
     monoclonal antibody of the invention. Traditional antithrombotic agents include direct or
     indirect thrombin inhibitor, a Factor X inhibitor, a Factor IX inhibitor, a Factor XII
     inhibitor, a Factor V inhibitor, a Factor VIII inhibitor, a Factor XIII inhibitor, a Factor VII
     LGAIL02/3102525v1                               -46-                     Aff,nlHa     SW    o119

     inhibitor, a tissue factor inhibitor, a profibrinolytic agent, a fibrinolytic or fibrinogenolytic
     agent, a carboxypeptidase B inhibitor, a platelet inhibitor, a selective platelet count
     reducing agent, or a Factor XI inhibitor.
              Direct thrombin inhibitors include argatroban and derivatives or analogs thereof,
  5  hirudin and recombinant or synthetic derivatives or analogs thereof, derivatives of the
     tripeptide Phe-Pro-Arg, chloromethylketone derivatives, ximelagatran and derivatives,
     metabolites, or analogs thereof, anion binding exosite inhibitors, and RNA/DNA aptamers.
             Indirect thrombin inhibitors include heparin, coumarin, dermatan, and
    thrombomodulin.
 10          Factor X inhibitors include direct factor Xa inhibitors, rivaroxaban, antibodies to
     factor X, inactivated factor Xa, or analogs and derivatives thereof.
             Factor IX inhibitors include antibodies to factor IX, direct factor IXa inhibitors, or
    inactivated factor IXa, or analogs and derivatives thereof
             Factor XII inhibitors include direct factor XII inhibitors, corn trypsin inhibitor,
15  antibodies to FXII, or inactivated factor XIIa or analogs and derivatives thereof
             Factor V inhibitors include antibodies to factor V, activated protein C, protein S, or
    analogs and derivatives thereof.
             Factor VIII inhibitors include antibodies to FVIII, activated protein C, protein S, or
    analogs and derivatives thereof.
20           Factor XIII inhibitors include antibodies to factor XIII, direct factor XIIIa
    inhibitors, or inactivated factor XIIIa.
             Factor VII inhibitors include antibodies to factor VII, tissue factor pathway
    inhibitor, inactivated factor Vfla, or direct factor VIla inhibitor or analogs and derivatives
    thereof
25           Tissue factor inhibitors include tissue factor pathway inhibitor, antibodies to tissue
    factor, or analogs and derivatives thereof.
             Profibrinolytic agents include urokinase, streptokinase, tissue plasminogen
    activator or derivatives thereof.
             Fibrinolytic or fibrinogenolytic agents include plasmin, microplasmin, ancrod, or
30  derivatives thereof
             Platelet inhibitors include aspirin, clopidogrel, dypiridamol, or derivatives thereof
             Selective platelet count reducing agents include hydroxyurea, anagrelide, or
    derivatives thereof
    IG AI)2/3102525v1                              -47-                        AtenktNn Sf67/164212

             Factor XI inhibitors include direct factor XIa inhibitors, other antibodies to factor
     XI, inactivated factor Xla, or analogs and derivatives thereof.
             In another embodiment, a method isprovided for treating metastatic cancer in a
     subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject an effective dose of an anti
  5  factor XI monoclonal antibody of the invention.
             In yet another embodiment, a method is provided for treating an acute inflammatory
     reaction in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject an effective
     dose of an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody of the invention.
             In further embodiments of the present invention, combination therapies are
 10  provided in which an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody is the primary active agent and is
     administered along with an additional active agent to a subject in need thereof. Such
     combination therapy may be carried out by administration of the different active agents in
     a single composition, by concurrent administration of the different active agents in
     different compositions, or by sequential administration of the different active agents. The
15   combination therapy may also include situations where the anti-factor XI monoclonal
     antibody is already being administered to the patient, and the additional active agent is to
    be added to the patient's drug regimen, as well as where different individuals (e.g.,
    physicians or other medical professionals) are administering the separate components of
    the combination to the patient.
20           The additional active agent will generally, although not necessarily, be one that is
    effective in inhibiting thrombosis. In a preferred embodiment, the additional active agent
    is a hemostatic agent, Le., an agent that promotes hemostasis. Particularly preferred
    hemostatic agents for use in the combination therapies of the present invention include
    activated factor VII (FVIIa) or activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC). Both
25  FVIIa and APCC were developed as hemostatic agents for the treatment of bleeding in
    patients with inhibitor-developing hemophilia (
    Scharrer (1999) Haemophilia,5:253-259; Shapiro et aL. (1998) Thromb. Haemost.,
    80:773-778; Lusher et al (1980) N. Engl J. Med., 303:421-425; Sjamsoedin et aL (1981)
    N. Engl. ,. Med., 305:717-21; Negrier et at (1997) Thromb. Haemost., 77:1113-1119).
30  The key active ingredient of APCC is prothrombin, which contributes to both hemostasis
    and thrombus growth (Akhavan et aL (2000) Thromb. Haemost., 84:989-997; Xi et aL
    (1989) Thromb. Haenost., 62:788-791). By contrast, increasing the plasma concentration
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                          -48-                        AttvDktNo 53367/214717

      of FVIIa is thought to increase the generation of thrombin predominantly through a tissue
     factor (TF) dependent pathway in which the TF/FVIIa complex activates factors IX and X
     (Hoffman and Monroe (2001) Thromb. Haemost., 85:958-965).
  5  IX.      Pharmaceutical Compositions and Administration Methods
              The anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of the invention, or antigen-binding
     fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, can be formulated according to known methods
     for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions, such as by admixture with a
     pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle. Suitable vehicles and their formulations are
 10  described, for example, in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences (I6th ed., Osol, A. (ed.),
     Mack, Easton PA (1980)). In order to form a pharmaceutically acceptable composition
     suitable for effective administration, such compositions will contain an effective amount
     of the anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or
     derivatives thereof, either alone, or with a suitable amount of carrier vehicle.
 15          The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" as used herein refers to a therapeutic agent
     or compound that while biologically active will not damage the physiology of the recipient
    human or animal to the extent that the viability of the recipient is comprised.
             Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in admixture with a suitable
    carrier, diluent, or excipient such as sterile water, physiological saline, glucose, or the like.
20  The compositions can contain auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents,
    pH buffering agents, adjuvants, gelling or viscosity enhancing additives, preservatives,
    flavoring agents, colors, and the like, depending upon the route of administration and the
    preparation desired.
             Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for immediate relase or controlled
25  release. The "absorption pool" represents a solution of the drug administered at a
    particular absorption site, and k, ka, and ke are first-order rate constants for: 1)release of
    the drug from the formulation; 2) absorption; and 3) elimination, respectively. For
    immediate release dosage forms, the rate constant for drug release kr is far greater than the
    absorption rate constant ka. For controlled release formulations, the opposite is true, i.e.,
30  k, <<<ka, such that the rate of release of drug from the dosage form is the rate-limiting
    step in the delivery of the drug to the target area. The term "controlled release" as used
    herein includes any nonimmediate release formulation, including but not limited to
    sustained release, delayed release and pulsatile release formulations.
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                            -49 -                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

              Pharmaceutical compositions comprising anti-factor XI monoclonal antibodies of
      the invention, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or derivatives thereof, can be
      administered in dosages and by techniques well known to those skilled in the medical or
     veterinary arts, taking into consideration such factors as the age, sex, weight, species and
  5  condition of the particular subject, and the route of administration. The route of
     administration can be via any route that delivers a safe and therapeutically effective dose
     of an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody of the invention, or antigen-binding fragments,
     variants, or derivatives thereof, to the blood of an animal or human. Forms of
     administration, include, but are not limited to, systemic, topical, enteral, and parenteral
 10  routes of administration. Enteral routes include oral and gastrointestinal administration.
     Parenteral routes include intravenous, intraarterial, intramuscular, intraperitoneal,
     subcutaneous, transdermal, and transmucosal administration. Other routes of
     administration include epidural or intrathecal administration.
             The effective dosage and route of administration are determined by the therapeutic
15   range and nature of the compound, and by known factors, such as the age, weight, and
     condition of the subject, as well as LDso and other screening procedures that are known
     and do not require undue experimentation.
             The term "dosage" as used herein refers to the amount of an anti-factor XI
    monoclonal antibody of the invention, or antigen-binding fragments, variants, or
20   derivatives thereof, administered to an animal or human. The therapeutic agent may be
    delivered to the recipient as a bolus or by a sustained (continuous or intermittent) delivery.
    When the delivery of a dosage is sustained over a period, which may be in the order of a
    few minutes to several days, weeks or months, or may be administer chronically for a
    period of years, the dosage may be expressed as weight of the therapeutic agent/kg body
25  weight of the patient/unit time of delivery.
             By "therapeutically effective dose or amount" or "effective amount" is intended an
    amount of an anti-factor XI monoclonal antibody that when administered brings about a
    positive therapeutic response with respect to treatment of a patient in need thereof. In
    some embodiments of the invention, a therapeutically effective dose of the anti-factor XI
30  monoclonal antibody is in the range from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, from about
    0.1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, from about 1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, from about 1 mg/kg
    to about 5 mg/kg, from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 1 mg/kg, or from about 0.1 mg/kg to
    about 1 mg/kg. In other embodiments, the therapeutically effective doses of anti-factor XI
    monoclonal antibody, is about 0.01 mg/kg, about 0.03 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg, about 0.3
    LEGALo2/31025285v1                           -50-                       AttvDktNo 53362/364212

        mg/kg, about 0.5 mg/kg, about 1 mg/kg, about 1.5 mg/kg, about 2 mg/kg, about 2.5
       mg/kg, about 3 mg/kg, about 5 mg/kg, about 7 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, or other such doses
       falling within the range of about 0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg. It is recognized that the
       method of treatment may comprise a single administration of a therapeutically effective
   5   dose or multiple administrations of a therapeutically effective dose of the anti-factor XI
       monoclonal antibody.
               The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of
       limitation.
 10
                                            EXPERIMENTAL
      Example 1. Inhibition of Factor XI With Monoclonal Antibody IA6 Decreases Thrombin
      Production and Prevents Vascular Occlusion in Experimental Thrombosis in Primates
               The present study in primates was designed to help clarify the role of FXI in
 15   thrombus formation, and to determine if FXI inhibition represents a relatively safe
      thrombosis specific approach for limiting thrombus propagation. By measuring local
      procoagulant and fibrinolytic markers, uniquely sensitive time dependent measurements of
      local thrombin production, platelet activation, and fibrinolysis were assessed. In order to
      delineate the role of FXI, studies were also performed using a potent monospecific
20    antibody to FXL Platelet and fibrin deposition on thrombogenic devices were assessed,
      and vascular graft occlusion studies were performed to determine the importance of FXI in
     the propagation and stability of relatively large experimental thrombi under arterial type
     shear. These results demonstrate for the first time in vivo that FXI is capable of
     facilitating robust thrombin generation and platelet activation on the flow surface of
25   forming thrombi, which contributes directly to thrombus growth and stability. These
     results also show that FXI related inhibition of fibrinolysis plays, at most, a minor role in
     limiting the degradation of rapidly propagating arterial type thrombi.
               Methods
30            ExperimentalAnimals. A total of 39 non-terminal studies were performed on 17
     normal juvenile male baboons (Papioanubis) weighing 9-11 kg. Experiments were
     conducted on non-anticoagulated awake animals that had chronic exteriorized arterio
     venous (AV) shunts previously placed between the femoral artery and vein, as described
     elsewhere (Hanson et al. (1993) J. Clin. Invest. 92:2003-2012). Baseline shunt blood flow
     LFGALO2/31 0 25285v1                        - 51 -                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

       exceeded 250 ml/min in all study animals. Anxiety was managed with low dose ketamine
       (< 2 mg/kg/hr). Platelet counts, red cell counts, and hematocrits were measured daily,
       before and after the experiments. Calculated blood loss did not exceed 4% of total blood
       volume on any experimental day.
   5           Thrombosis model. Thrombus formation was initiated within the baboon AV shunt
       by interposing a thrombogenic segment of prosthetic vascular graft (ePTFE, WL Gore &
       Co., Flagstaff, AZ), as previously described (Hanson et al. (1993) J. Clin. Invest. 92:2003
       2012). To consistently trigger platelet-dependent thrombus formation, the clinical graft
       segments were coated with immobilized collagen. Twenty mm long grafts having internal
 10    diameters (i.d.) of either 2 or 4 mm were filled with equine type I collagen (1 mg/ml;
      Nycomed Arzenmittel, Munich, Germany) for 15 min, and then dried overnight under
      sterile airflow. This method produced a uniform collagen coating within the graft lumen
      as determined by scanning electron microscopy (Figure lB and 1C). The thrombogenic
      collagen-coated grafts were then incorporated between segments of silicon rubber tubing,
 15   and deployed into the AV shunts (Figure IA). The grafts were exposed to blood for up to
      60 min. During each experiment, the blood flow rate through the graft was restricted to
      100 ml/min by clamping the proximal silicone rubber shunt segment, thereby producing a
      mean wall shear rate (MWSR) in the 4 mm grafts of 265 s-1 while in the 2 mm grafts the
      initial MWSR was 2120 s-'. Flow rates were continuously monitored using an ultrasonic
20    flow meter (Transonics Systems, Ithaca, NY). The 4 mm grafts did not occlude and
     pulsatile flow rates remained at 100 ml/min until the thrombogenic graft segments were
     removed at 60 min. Baseline blood flow was restored through the permanent shunt after
     each experiment. In the 2 mm diameter grafts blood flow rates progressively declined due
     to thrombus formation. The grafts were removed from the AV shunts when the flow rate
25   fell from 100 ml/min to below 20 ml/min, signaling imminent occlusion. The time from
     initiation of blood flow to graft removal (<20 ml/min blood flow) was taken as the
     occlusion time.
              For imaging of the platelet deposition, autologous baboon platelets were labeled
     with I mCi of 111In-oxine as previously described (Hanson et al. (1993) J Clin. Invest.
30   92:2003-2012). Labeled platelets were infused and allowed to circulate for at least I h
     before studies were performed. Accumulation of labeled platelets onto thrombogenic
     grafts were measured in 5-mn intervals using a gamma scintillation camera. Homologous
     125
        I-labeled baboon fibrinogen (4 pCi, >90% clottable) was infused 10 min before each
     study, and incorporation of the labeled fibrin within the thrombus was assessed using a
     LEGALo2/3]025285v1                          -52-                        AHTtVWo.n SfAnlAil

      gamma counter 30 days later to allow the "'In to decay. The radioactivity deposited
      (cpm) was divided by the clottable fibrin(ogen) radioactivity of samples taken at the time
      of the original study (cpm / mg).
              Occlusion studies were performed using 10 mm long 2 mm i.d. collagen coated
  5   devices which produced high arterial shear rates (2120 s-1 at 100 ml/min clamped blood
      flow). Accumulation of labeled platelets onto 2 mm thrombogenic grafts were measured
     in 3-min intervals using a gamma scintillation camera. Flow was maintained at 100
     ml/min by proximal clamping for as long as possible, and then allowed to decrease as the
     propagating thrombus began to occlude the device. A final blood flow rate of 20 ml/min
 10  was used as a cutoff for occlusion, since a fully occlusive thrombi and lack of blood flow
     through the device could lead to occlusion of the shunt and a significant loss of blood for
     the animals.
              Sampling method. A novel local sampling method was used to assess the local
     production of thrombogenic mediators by sampling blood that superfused propagating
15   experimental thrombi. Since thrombotic markers can be rapidly degraded and cleared
     from circulation, systemic sampling may lack the sensitivity to detect more subtle
     changes, and does not establish the location of such marker generation. All blood samples
     were collected into 1/10th volume 3.8% citrate anticoagulant. Systemic samples (1 ml
     each) were collected before initiation of thrombosis as well as 30 and 60 min into each
20   study. A total of 6 local blood samples were drawn from the peripheral blood IBL at a rate
     of 100 pl/min over 10 min intervals out of a 0.64 mm port which was located 10 mm distal
    to the growing thrombus (Figure IA). In order to maintain patency of the sample port,
     Phe-Pro-Arg-chloromethylketone (PPACK, 0.5 mg/ml) anticoagulant, which directly
    inhibits thrombin, FVIIa, FXa, FXIa, and various other serine proteases (Angliker et al.
25  (1988) Biochem . 256:481-486), was infused immediately upstream at a rate of 20 p1/min,
    also using a 0.64 mm port. Infusion and sampling were regulated by syringe pumps
    (Harvard Apparatus). Local sampling was performed only with the 4 mm i.d. devices in
    this study. PPACK did not affect systemic prothrombin times (PT) or activated partial
    thromboplastin times (aPTT) that were measured in sequential plasma samples, nor did
30  local sampling with PPACK affect platelet or fibrin deposition onto collagen-coated grafts
    as compared with historical results in this model.
             For control studies, normal length silicone rubber extension tubing was used
    without inserting a thrombogenic device. The tubing was cut and reattached in the same
    location of graft insertion. Sample and anticoagulant infusion ports were positioned as
    ITRGA I )2/310252R5vI                        - 53 -                    AttvDktNn 5367/164719

     described above, and blood samples were collected using the same approach. This
     provided a control of the local sampling technique to determine if this method produced
     activation of platelets and the coagulation pathway independent of the thrombogenic
     device. Consistent with previous studies (Savage et al. (1986) Blood 68:386-393), the
  5  silicone tubing was not measurably thrombogenic; neither the silicone polymer nor the
     sampling technique employed produced significant coagulation pathway or platelet
     activation.
             Blood sample analysis. Blood cell counts were determined using a micro-60
     automated cell counter (Horiba-ABX Diagnostics). Blood samples were divided into two
 10  aliquots and processed according to specific test requirements. All samples were placed
     on ice for 10 min, centrifuged at 4* C for 10 min at 12,900 g, and the plasmas were stored
    at -80* C. For p-thromboglobulin (pTG) determinations, the samples were supplemented
    with 4 pg/ml prostaglandin El (PGEi), 4.3 mg/ml acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), and 50
    pg/ml PPACK. Cross-reacting ELISA assays were used to determine D-dimer levels
 15 (IMUCLONE* D-Dimer, American Diagnostica; LOD: 35 ng/mL), the platelet activation
    marker PTG (Asserachrom®, Diagnostica Stago; LOD: 5 IU/mL), and thrombin
    antithrombin complexes (TAT, Enzygnost-TAT, Dade-Behring; LOD: 2 ng/mL). All
    ELISA test kits utilized for these studies have previously shown sensitivity to baboon
    markers.
20           FactorXI andplateletinhibitionin vivo. Since previous studies showed that
    polyclonal antibodies to human FXI required very high doses to achieve inhibition of FXI
    in baboons (Gruber et al. (2003) Blood 102:953-955), a new reagent was generated: a
    potent neutralizing anti-human FXI monoclonal antibody (aXIMab) that cross-reacted
    with baboon FXI. Hybridomas were derived from Balb/c mice immunized with purified
25  human FXI using standard procedures (de StGroth & Scheidegger (1980) J. Immunol.
    Methods 35:1-21). Hybridomas were screened using solid phase ELISA against human
    FXI, and those that showed binding were subcloned twice by limiting dilution. The clone
    that produced the most potent neutralizing antibody, which inhibited both the activation of
    FXI and the activity of FXIa, was selected based on prolongation of the clotting time of
30  recalcified normal human plasma (NHP) and normal baboon plasma (NBP) by the cell
    culture supernatant. The cell line producing aXIMab (IA6) was grown in a CL1000
    bioreactor according to the manufacturer's protocol (Integra Biosciences), and the
    antibody was purified from the media using cation exchange and protein A
    chromatography.
    LEGAL02/31025285v1                          -54-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

             Human and baboon FXI in plasma was recognized by aXIMab as a single band at
      160 kDa on Western blots (Figure 7A). The antibody specifically recognized the third
     apple (A3) domain of the FXI heavy chain, as assessed by immunoblotting of recombinant
     FXI/prekallikrein chimeras (see Example 2 below; see also Sun et al. (1996) J. Biol.
  5  Chem. 271:29,023-29,028). The ICso and IC99 of aXIMab in vitro was 2.5 nM and 10 nM,
     respectively, in a clotting assay using FXI deficient human plasma (George King Bio
     Medical) with serial dilutions of NBP as standards (Proctor et al. (1961) Am. J. Clin.
     Pathol.36:212-219). Purified aXIMab (monoclonal antibody 1A6), tested within a
     concentration rage from 0-40 nM, prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time
 10  (aPTT) (HemosilTm SynthASil, Instrumentation Laboratory) similarly in both NHP and
     NBP in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting the prothrombin time (PT)
     (Innovin*, Dade Behring).
             Pharmacologicalinhibition ofFXI andplatelet activities in vivo. In a pilot
     experiment, aXIMab (monoclonal antibody 1A6; 2 mg/kg) was administered to a single
 15  baboon, and blood samples were collected into citrate anticoagulant over 4 weeks to
     measure circulating FXI antigen (FXI:Ag) concentrations, FXI inhibitor, and FXI
    procoagulant activity of each sample. This dose of aXIMab was chosen with the intent to
     achieve sustained and near-complete inhibition of FXI, assuming an initial dilution of the
    antibody into 60 ml blood volume per kg body weight after injection. The maximum
20  achievable prolongation of the aPTT was about 2.5 fold. FXI:Ag was measured by ELISA
    using goat anti-human FXI polyclonal capture and detection (horseradish peroxidase
    conjugated [HRP]) antibodies (Affinity Biologicals, Hamilton, Ontario), which also
    recognized baboon FXI and its complex with aXIMab. A standard curve was constructed
    with serial dilutions of NBP, and FXI concentrations were determined in percentage of
25  NBP. Western blots for FXI were performed by size fractionation of 1 pl samples of
    plasma under non-reducing conditions on 7.5% polyacrylamide-SDS gels, followed by
    transfer to PVDF membranes. Detection was with a goat-anti-human FXI polyclonal
    antibody conjugated to HRP and chemiluminescence. In the same samples, the Bethesda
    assay (Kasper et al. (1975) Thromb. Diath. Haemorrh.34:869-872) was used to determine
30  excess (non-complexed) circulating FXT inhibitor (aXIMab) activity levels, and the FXI
    procoagulant activity was assayed using a clotting assay (Proctor et al. (1961) Am. J. Clin.
    Pathol. 36:212-219).
    LEGALo2/31025285vl                          -55 -                     AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

                aXIMab was administered as a single bolus (2 mg/kg intravenously) at least 24 h
       before the thrombosis experiments. The anticoagulant effect (aPTT ) was monitored daily,
       and thrombosis experiments were performed while the FXI procoagulant activity in the
       circulating blood was reduced by 99%, as assessed by comparing the clotting times to a
   5   standard curve generated with FXI deficient human plasma (George King Bio-Medical).
       The PT was also assessed in all baboons and no differences were seen between groups.
               We previously showed that inhibition of FXI by polyclonal antibodies is safer and
       as effective as high dose heparin in baboons (Gruber & Hanson (2003) Blood 102:953
       955). Since aspirin is a less antihemostatic agent than heparin, and it is often included in
 10    the standard treatment of arterial-type platelet-dependent thrombosis, ASA was used in the
       current studies with the occlusion-prone 2 mm i.d. grafts as a long-acting positive control.
      ASA (32 mg/kg) was administered orally 2-4 h before each thrombosis experiment, as
      described previously (Hanson et al. (1985) J. Clin. Invest. 75:1591-1599). Four weeks
      were allowed for washout of each aXIMab and ASA before performing new experiments
 15   in the same animal.
              Hemostatic assessment. The effects of FXI inhibition and aspirin on primary
      hemostasis in baboons were assessed using the standard template skin bleeding time test
      (Surgicutt* International Technidyne Corp). Experimentally, this and similar tests (e.g.,
      Simplate bleeding times) have been shown to be sensitive to the effects of therapeutic
20    anticoagulants, anti-platelet agents, and coagulation abnormalities in humans and non
      human primates (Gruber et al. (2007) Blood 109:3733-3740; Smith et al. (1985) Am. J.
      Clin. Pathol.83:211-215; Payne et al. (2002) J. Vase. Surg. 35:1204-1209). All bleeding
     time measurements were performed by the same expert technician. For indirect assessment
     of hemostasis, aPTT and PT measurements were also performed.
25            Computationalmodeling. A 3D computational fluid dynamics model, similar to
     that presented by Xu et al. ((2004) Biorheology 41:113-125), was used to estimate the
     concentrations of thrombus-derived macromolecules in blood that flows over forming
     thrombus and transports the markers along the adjacent vessel wall distally. The model
     was based on the geometry shown in Figure 1A, with typical values for blood density and
30   viscosity (Fung (1993) "Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues" (ed
     2nd). New York: Springer-Verlag). The model of local blood sampling was implemented
     using the finite element software ADINA (Watertown, MA). In addition, a 2D
     axisymmetric computational model, similar to that of Markou et al. ((1998) Annals
     LEGAL2/31025285vl                            -56-                      AttvDktNn. 53362/364212

       Biomed. Engineering26:502-511), was used to estimate thrombosis marker distribution
       within the flow field. Computational modeling predicted that molecules of interest (PTG,
       fibrin D-dimer, and TAT) released or generated at sites of thrombus formation, would be
       concentrated (>99%) within a very thin peripheral blood boundary layer (-0.1 mm thick
   5   concentration boundary layer) along the immediately distal vessel wall (data not shown).
       Thus, as employed here, the local sampling method effectively sampled the entire near
       wall concentration boundary layer region, immediately distal to the forming thrombus, for
      platelet and coagulation markers of interest.
                 Flow chamber coagulationstudies. Glass capillary tubes were coated with
 10    100pg/ml Horm collagen (Nycomed Arzenmittel, Munich, Germany). Whole human
      blood was collected into corn trypsin inhibitor (CTI, 40pg/ml), discarding the first Iml to
      limit any activation of the coagulation pathway, and then perfused through the tubes at a
      shear rate of 265 s-1 for 10 min. Prior to each experiment, blood was incubated with
      aXIMab (20pg/ml), or PBS vehicle. In separate experiments, washed platelets and RBCs
 15   were processed as described (McCarty et al. (2006) J. Thromb. Haemost. 4:1367-1378),
      and then mixed with FXII deficient human plasma (<1% FXII, Haematologic
      Technologies, Essex Junction, VT) to reach a hematocrit of 40% and platelet count of 300
      x10 3/pl. The reconstituted blood was incubated with aXIMab (20pg/ml) or CTI (40pg/ml),
      recalcified with 7.5mM CaClz and 3.75mM MgCl 2, and then perfused immediately
20   through collagen coated capillary tubes. Recalcified FXII deficient human plasma without
     RBCs or platelets was also perfused over collagen. Images were obtained by DIC
     microscopy after three minutes of perfusion with modified Tyrodes buffer.
                Dataanalysis. Mean values are given ± 1 SEM (standard error of the mean).
     Occlusion data were compared using the log-rank test. The two-tailed Student's t-test was
25   used for all other single pair comparisons. A P value 5 0.05 was considered significant.
              Results
              Inhibition of FXI by aXiMab in vitropreventsfibrinformation independent of
     FXIIa. When whole human blood, which was anticoagulated with CTI to block the
30   function of FXIla, was perfused over collagen at arterial shear (265 s-1), platelets were
     deposited in large aggregates which became enveloped by forming fibrin strands (Figure
     7B). In stark contrast, when CTI blood was treated with aXIMab to inhibit FXI, fibrin
     deposition was noticeably attenuated with a modest reduction in platelet adhesion. The
     outcome was similar when using reconstituted FXII deficient blood, with or without CTI.
     LFGA L2/31025285v1                           -57-                     AttvDktN.   53362/3642?

        Again, fibrin was generated independent of FXII, and FXI inhibition with aXIMab
        interrupted fibrin formation. No fibrin was formed when recalcified FXII deficient human
       plasma was perfused over collagen. For these experiments, human whole blood,
       anticoagulated with CTI (40 gg/ln) to inhibit FXIIa, or reconstituted FXII deficient
   5   human blood was perfused through collagen coated capillary tubes at a shear rate of 265 s
          for 10 minutes. Prior to each experiment, blood was incubated with either aXIMab (20
       gg/ml), CTI (40 gg/ml) for reconstituted blood where indicated, or PBS vehicle. Images
       were obtained via Kohler-illuminated Nomarski differential interference contrast (DIG)
       microscopy with a Zeiss Axiovert 200M microscope using a Zeiss 63x oil immersion 1.40
 10    NA plan-apochromat lens. Images were captured following three minutes of perfusion
       with modified Tyrodes buffer using a Zeiss AxioCam with Slidebook 4.0 (Intelligent
       Imaging Innovations, Inc., Denver, CO, USA). All experiments were performed at 370 C.
       Each image in Figure 7B is representative of 2-3 experiments.
                These data suggest that under physiologically relevant shear FXI promotes fibrin
 15   formation independent of FXIIa in the presence of cellular blood components.
                InhibitionofFX with a.iMab. A baboon given aXIMab (1A6; 2mg/kg) was
      followed for 4 weeks post-injection to assess FXI antigen (FXI:Ag), anticoagulant activity,
      and antibody inhibitor levels. FXI:Ag levels measured 1 h after aXIMab administration
      had decreased from 110% to 40% of NBP levels, but steadily increased thereafter,
20    reaching 300% of control at day 8 post-infusion (Figure 8A). Plasma FXI antigen
      remained above 200% of control through day 15, after which there was a decrease to
      130% by day 27. FXI activity decreased from 125% to <1% 1 h after aXIMab
     administration, and remained inhibited by >99% for 10 days after administration. The FXI
     activity slowly climbed thereafter, normalizing to 136% by day 27. Maximum circulating
25   FXI inhibitor levels were observed at 1 h post aXIMab infusion (72 Bethesda units [BU]),
     which decreased to <0.6 BU by day 15 (Figure 8B). Consistent with the FXI:Ag ELISA
     data, the 160 kDa band representing the FXI homodimer on SDS PAGE and Western blots
     of plasma increased in intensity between day 0 and 8 (Figure 8C). These results indicate
     that the anticoagulant effect of aXIMab was due to its sustained presence in the
30   circulation, and its ability to block FXI activation and/or activity, and not to clearance of
     the enzyme from the plasma. Since aXIMab separates from FXI during SDS gel
     electrophoresis, it remains unclear whether inhibition of FXI by aXIMab caused a rebound
     effect (increase in FXI secretion) or the FXI-aXIMab immune complexes were slowly
     cleared from the circulation.
     LEGALO02/31025285vl                          -58-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364717

               Single i.v. bolus injections of aXIh4ab (2mg/kg) were given to 4 baboons. The FXI
      procoagulant activity was inhibited by 99.0% (98.8-99.5%) at I hr after infusion and
      remained inhibited >95% in all animals for 8 days after administration (Figure 2). No
      adverse reactions to the antibody were observed. aPTT measurements were prolonged
  5   after aXIMab administration to 65.6 ± 2.0 sec compared with 30.5     ± 0.7 see in control
      animals, while the PT measurements were equivalent to PBS vehicle-treatment control
      values in the same animals (9.1 ± 0.1 vs. 9.0 ± 0.1 see, respectively, n = 11 for each
      treatment). Platelet aggregation in platelet rich plasma in response to adenosine
      diphosphate (ADP) and collagen was unchanged for aXIMab-treated animals versus
 10   control results.
              aX7Mab treatedbaboons are protectedfrom collagen initiatedthrombus
     development. Previous studies have shown that FXI inhibition by a polyclonal antibody
     was antithrombotic on tissue factor and contact initiating surfaces in primates (Gruber &
     Hanson (2003) Blood. 102:953-955). Since vascular injury can also expose large amounts
 15  of platelet reactive collagen to flowing blood, the effect of FXI inhibition on collagen
     initiated thrombosis in baboons was examined. Significant differences in platelet
     accumulation between aXIMab- and vehicle-treated groups were seen as early as 10 min
     after graft exposure to blood flow (0.13 ± 0.03 x 109 versus 0.23 0.03 x 109platelets,
     aXIMab versus control, P <0.05). The differences remained statistically significant
20   throughout the time course of thrombus propagation (Figure 3A). Graft platelet
     accumulation at 60 min was 63% lower in aXIMab-treated animals than in vehicle
     controls (1.38 ± 0.26 x 109 versus 3.68 ± 0.52 x 109 platelets, aXiMab versus control, n =
     6 and 8, respectively, P <0.01; Figure 3A). Systemic platelet counts prior to thrombosis
    studies were similar for both aXIMab and control groups (341 27 x 103/gl versus 337±
25  31 x 103/gl, respectively), and did not change significantly following thrombosis
    experiments. End-point fibrin deposition was reduced by 81% compared with controls
    (0.23 ± 0.07 mg and 1.18 ± 0.19 mg, aXIMab versus control, P =0.001; Figure 3B).
    Since aXIMab is monospecific for the A3 domain of FXI, these data verify that FXI plays
    an important role in thrombus propagation under arterial-type flow conditions in primates.
30           Reduced thrombin generationandplatelet activationduring FXI inhibition. Since
    inhibition of FXI could reduce thrombus formation in vivo both by limiting thrombin
    mediated platelet activation and fibrin formation and/or by increasing thrombolysis, levels
    of OTG, thrombin (TAT), and D-dimer were measured. Systemic pre-treatment 3TG,
    TAT, and D-dimer levels were comparable in vehicle- and aXIMab-treated baboons (19.3
    LEGAIfl2/31)25285vl                          -59-                       Attv1WtNn     316AA912

       ± 2.6 versus 24.8 ± 3.8 IU/ml, 6.2 ± 0.4 versus 4.6 ± 0.6  gg/L, and 2.3 ± 0.2 versus 2.4
       0.2 gg/ml, respectively). Surprisingly, we observed a robust >20-fold increase in TAT
       release into the blood stream from the graft thrombus area, as measured in samples taken
       locally from the near-wall region, immediately downstream of thrombus formation in
   5   vehicle-treated baboons. Pre-treatment of baboons with aXIMab prevented the increase in
       local TAT levels, indicating a considerable reduction in thrombin generation in the
       absence of FXI activity (Figure 4A). TAT levels in plasmas obtained by local sampling
      were reduced by up to 98% at 40 min, while systemic TAT levels were reduced by 81% at
      60 min versus the untreated controls (4.3 ± 0.5 versus 22.1 ± 2.5 pg/L, n = 6 and 7,
 10   respectively, P < 0.001; Figure 4B). Platelet activation at the thrombus surface, as
      assessed by the release of platelet a-granule pTG, was reduced by 86% at 30 min in
      samples taken distal to thrombi in aXIMab treated animals (Figure 4C). Systemic pTG
      levels measured at 60 min were reduced by 42% by aXIMab (23.0 ± 2.1 rU/ml, n = 6)
      compared with vehicle-treated controls (39.5 ± 5.5 IU/ml, n = 7; Figure 4D, P <0.05).
 15   Local D-dimer levels were not changed at 60 min compared with baseline systemic values
      in either control (2.3 ± 0.2 and 2.4 ± 0.4 gg/ml, respectively, n = 7) or aXIMab treated
      animals (2.4 ± 0.2 and 2.2 ± 0.2 pg/ml, respectively n = 6; Figure 4E). Systemic D-dimer
      levels assessed at 60 min also were unchanged from baseline systemic values in both
      groups (2.4 ± 0.3 and 2.3 ± 0.2 pg/ml, control versus aXIMab treated animals). This
20    confirms previous reports from similar baboon studies showing systemic D-dimer levels
      do not increase by 60 min after thrombus initiation, unless a thrombolytic agent is
      administered (Sundell et al. (1997) Circulation96:941-948; Dichek et al. (1996)
      Circulation93:301-309).
              In order to assess the local sampling method for activation of coagulation and
25   platelets, the system was tested without interposing a collagen coated thrombogenic device
     within the shunt loop. Although the tubing alone modestly increased the TAT and J-TG
     levels systemically and locally (Figure 4A-C), the elevations were not statistically
     significant. No fibrin formation or platelet deposition was measured on the control tubing.
              These data indicate that: 1) FXI plays an important role in thrombin generation and
30   platelet activation during acute, arterial-type thrombus formation, and 2) endogenous local
     thrombolysis appears to be limited during the time course of these studies, regardless of
     FXI activity.
     LEGALU2/31025285v1                           -60-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

               aXiMabprevents vasculargraft occlusion. Even though macroscopic thrombi
      formed rapidly in 4 mm i.d. vascular grafts, none of these grafts occluded during 60 min of
      blood perfusion. The effects of inhibiting FXI activity on thrombus formation and
      occlusion were therefore evaluated using smaller diameter (2 mm i.d.), collagen-coated
  5   vascular grafts that accumulated thrombus under higher shear conditions (wall shear rate =
      2120 s-1). While the initial platelet accumulation rate was similar in aXIMab-treated and
      vehicle-treated baboons, thrombus stability was profoundly reduced in the absence of FXI
      activity. Within 12-15 min after initiation of blood perfusion the growth rate of platelet
     thrombus was reduced in all aXIMab-treated animals, and the number of platelets in the
 10  thrombus decreased abruptly, indicating reduced thrombus stability and net losses of
     thrombus material to embolization (Figure 5). Treatment with aXIMab prevented graft
     occlusion over 60 min in all experiments (5 of 5 grafts remained patent), compared with
     the results in vehicle-treated controls in which 8 of 9 grafts occluded by 27.0 ± 3.3 min (P
     <0.01; Figure 5 and Table 1). Fibrin accumulation was also reduced by aXIMab treatment
 15  versus the vehicle-treated controls (0.18 ±0.02 versus 0.30 ±0.04 mg, respectively, P <
     0.01; Table 1). As expected, treatment with the positive antithrombotic control, high dose
     ASA, reduced platelet deposition in the 2 mm id. grafts, but did not completely interrupt
     occlusive thrombus formation. The time to graft occlusion was prolonged by aspirin by an
     average of 18 min in 4 grafts, while 2 additional grafts remained patent throughout the 60
20   min study interval. High dose ASA was therefore less effective in preventing graft
    occlusion than aXIMab (P<0.05, aXIMab versus ASA). These data indicate that FXI
    plays an important role in the thrombogenic process that leads to acute occlusion of small
    caliber vascular grafts.
25  Table 1. FM inhibition by aXIMab prevents vascular graft occlusion in baboons.
                  Number Embolic events               Fibrin deposition (mg)
                  occluded per experiment
      Control        8/9             n.d.                   0.30 0.04
      ASA            4/6          1.5 +0.6                  0.23 ± 0.04
      aXIMab         0/5          6.6 ±0.9                  0.18 ±0.02*
    Data shown are absolute values or means ± SEM when applicable. FXI, factor XI;
    aXIMab, anti-FXI monoclonal antibody; ASA, aspirin; n.d., none detected. *P <0.01
    compared with control using the two-tailed Student's i-test.
    LEGAL02/31025285v                            -61 -                     AttvlktNo. 53362/364212

              No antihemostatic effects of FXI inhibition with aXMab. Since all FDA approved
      anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs produce unwanted antihemostatic effects, a new
      thrombosis specific therapy could provide a safe alternative for patients at a high risk of
      bleeding. The template bleeding is prolonged by both anti-platelet agents and
  5   anticoagulants in baboons (Gruber ei al. (2007) Blood 109:3733-3740; Hanson et aL.
      (1988) J. Clin. Invest. 81:149-158), yet FXI inhibition by aXIMab had no effect on the
      standard template bleeding time compared with vehicle-treated controls (3.5 + 0.3 versus
      3.4 ± 0.2 min, n = 18 and 14, respectively). For comparison, single-dose ASA pre
     treatment nearly doubled the bleeding time to 6.4 ± 0.7 min (n = 10, P <0.01). No re
 10  bleeding phenomena, petechiae, hematomas or other adverse bleeding events were noted
     in any of the aXIMab- or ASA-treated animals during one week follow-up periods of
     observation. Taken together, these results show that inhibition of FXI activity by a
     neutralizing monoclonal antibody more effectively reduces acute occlusive arterial-type
     thrombus propagation, with less effect on primary hemostasis, than an antihemostatic dose
 15  of aspirin in baboons.
              Discussion
             These studies demonstrate that FXI is crucial for the facilitated production of
     robust amounts of thrombin on the flow surface of collagen initiated and propagating
20   thrombi, which leads to platelet activation, fibrin formation, and thrombus stability under
     high and low arterial flow conditions. The antithrombotic/antiocclusive outcome of FXI
     inhibition was produced primarily through a substantial decrease in thrombin production
     rather than through an increase in fibrinolytic pathways. While not wishing to be bound
    by theory, since thrombin is the most potent physiological agonist of platelets, it is likely
25  that the significant decrease in platelet activation observed during FXI inhibition resulted
    from the down regulation of thrombin generation. While FX inhibition delayed platelet
    deposition onto collagen under low arterial flow, early thrombus growth at high flow
    mirrored that of control studies. These results are consistent with the increased efficiency
    of platelet GPIb binding to vWF on exposed collagen under high shear (Nishiya et al.
30  (2002) Blood. 100:136-142), which produces less reliance on fibrin for early thrombus
    growth than under low shear conditions. In the propagation phase of thrombus growth
    however, the stability of thrombi exposed to high shear flow was robustly dependent on
    FXI and its ability to facilitate fibrin production and platelet activation. Indeed, under
    high arterial flow, enhanced distal thromboembolization was distinctly noted, which
    LEGAL02/31025285vl                            -62-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

        completely prevented vascular graft occlusion in all aXIMab treated animals. These
        findings are consistent with the antithrombotic and anti-occlusive phenotype observed in
        FXI deficient mice following ferric chloride-induced arterial injury and thrombosis (Rosen
        et al. (2002) Thromb. Haemost. 87:774-776; Wang et al. (2005) J. Thromb. Haemost.
   5    3:695-702; Wang et al.J Thromb. Haemost. 4:1982-1988). However, none of the
        previous in vivo studies of flow-dependent thrombogenesis have provided evidence for the
        underlying antithrombotic mechanism of FXI inhibition.
                 FXI promotes clot resistance to fibrinolysis through thrombin-mediated activation
        of the metaloproteinase TAFI, which proteolytically modifies fibrin making it resistant to
 10    plasmin (Bajzaret al. (1996) J.Biol Chem. 271:16,603-16,608; Broze &Higuchi (1996)
       Blood 88:3815-3823). In addition, inhibition of thrombin generation by anticoagulants
       enhances clot lysis due to a slower forming, less dense fibrin network (Gruber et al. (1994)
       Blood 83:2541-2548; Nenci et al.(1992) Blood Coagul.Fibrinolysis3:279-285). Both
       processes may account, at least in part, for the enhanced lysis of blood clots formed in the
 15    presence of an anticoagulant anti-factor XI antibody in the clamped jugular vein of rabbits
       (Minnema et al (1988) J. Clin. Invest. 101:10-14). During the present studies in baboons,
      the fibrinolytic degradation product D-dimer was measured by local blood sampling in the
      vicinity of fibrin, platelet, and leukocyte rich arterial-type thrombi (Gruber et al. (2007)
      Blood 109:3733-3740). Unlike TAT and pTG levels, there were no changes detected in
20    local D-dimer for vehicle- or aXIMab-treated baboons. This finding suggests that
      endogenous fibrinolysis may not be a dominant process on the surface of thrombi during
      acute arterial thrombogenesis, which is consistent with the observation that TAF1 deficient
      mice that were expected to have a fibrinolytic phenotype were not protected against
      injury-induced arterial thrombus formation (Nagashima et al. (2002) J. Clin. Invest.
25    109:101-110). Although the present study did not demonstrate a role for fibrinolysis in
      rapid thrombus development, more effective endogenous fibrinolysis in the absence of
      FXT activity may play a role in later stages of thrombus development and reorganization.
                The dramatic reduction in local TAT during FXI inhibition with aXIMab illustrates
     the importance of FXI in thrombin production on the surface of collagen initiated and
30   propagating thrombi, which contributes directly to fibrin formation, platelet activation, and
     thrombus stability.
                Since PPACK-thrombin cannot be detected in the enzyme immunoassay described
     above, all local TAT was generated on the thrombus flow surface or within the ~1cm
     distance from the thrombus to the PPACK infusion port (minus the systemic contribution).
     LEGAL02/31025285v                             -63 -                      Attv1)ktNn 53362/36421.

        A benefit of using PPACK over other anticoagulants is its ability to rapidly inhibit a
        number of active serine proteases of the coagulation pathway, including factor Xa, which,
        as a part of the prothrombinase complex on activated platelets can be shielded from other
        anticoagulants and continue to generate thrombin. PPACK can also inhibit EXIa and limit
   5    unwanted contact activation within the sampling syringe over the 10 min sampling
        intervals. Without PPACK infusion the local sampling port occluded within 20-30 min.
        Based on the CFD models employed, the majority of the infused PPACK was captured
       within the sampling syringe. The small amount of PPACK that escaped into systemic
       circulation did not affect the platelet or fibrin deposition onto the 4mm collagen coated
 10    grafts compared with historical data. Also, the total infused PPACK, if given
       systemically, is an order of magnitude less than that previously shown to prolong clotting
       times in baboons (Hanson et al. (1988) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 85:3184-188).
               The decrease in local TAT and p-TG levels approaching 60 min in the no treatment
       collagen studies correlated with a decrease in platelet accumulation rate. it is unknown
 15    what led to the pacification of thrombus growth and mediator production, but is possibly
      the result of activated protein C (APC) generation or the production of other coagulation
      inhibitors.
               Another intriguing outcome from these experiments suggests that circulating tissue
      factor (TF), either through platelets or microparticles, does not appear to play a significant
20    role in promoting thrombus development. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the
      formation of TF/FVITa complex should support thrombin production and fibrin formation
      independent of the contact pathway, but inhibiting FXI significantly limits fibrin
      production on collagen. A likely scenario is that FXIa promotes robust feedback
      amplification of thrombin, which promotes fibrin formation and platelet activation
25    independent of circulating TF (Gailani et al.(1991) Science. 253:909-912; Broze et al.
      (1993) Thromb. Haemost. 70:72-74; Gailani et al. (2001) Blood. 97:3117-3122; Yun et al.
      (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 48:48112-48119; Baglia et al. (2004) J Biol. Chem. 279:49323
     49329).
               The activation of FXI by factor XIIa may also be an important process during
30   collagen initiated thrombus development.
               The decrease in local TAT formation during FXI inhibition in baboons, combined
     with more limited platelet and fibrin accumulation, illustrates the importance of continued
     FXT-dependent thrombin generation in the propagation of thrombi. FXI dependent
     thrombin generation could occur via continued FXI activation by FXIIa, thrombin, and/or
     LEGALA2/31025285vl                             -64-                      AttvDktN. 53362/421 2

        autoactivation (Gailani & Broze (1991) Science 253:909-912; Broze & Gailani (1993)
        Thromb. Haemost. 70:72-74). FXIIa appears to play an important role in experimental
       thrombosis in mice (Renne et al. (2005) J. Exp. Med. 202:271-281). However, the present
       in vitro flow chamber data presents a mechanism whereby FXI promotes thrombosis
   5   independent of FXIIa during shear flow conditions in the presence of blood cells.
       Although thrombin-mediated FXI activation in static plasma assays in vitro has been
       questioned (Pedicord et al (2007) PNAS USA 104:12,855-12,860), our flow-augmented
       thrombosis model clearly demonstrates a FXII independent thrombogenic pathway for
       FXI.
 10            Interestingly, while free FXI:Ag decreased to <1% for over a week following
       aXIMab injection, total FXI:Ag levels temporarily increased several-fold above baseline
       following the disappearance of FXI activity in the baboon circulation. Whether this
       increase was due to a longer half-life of the circulating immune complexes or upregulation
       of FXI synthesis and/or secretion remains to be explored.
 15            The evolutionary role of FXI has been difficult to fully elucidate, but these and
      other studies support a hypothesis that FXI functions, in part, to promote hemostasis after
      transvacular injury, which can expose large amounts of collagen to flowing flood. In the
      absence of FXI, pro-hemostatic occlusive thrombi may fail to stabilize, leading to
      increased and potentially fatal blood loss. Since tissue factor dependent hemostatic
20    processes dominate during most bleeding events, FXI likely plays a role only after surgery
      or trauma, which are the dominant clinical manifestations of severe FXI deficiency in
      human patients. Moreover, since FXI seems to have its central effect on the flow surface
      of propagating thrombi, and patients with FXI deficiency have a generally mild bleeding
     tendency, FXI appears to be a more thrombosis specific treatment strategy than other
25   existing antithrombotic methods, which can produce serious bleeding events independent
     of major trauma or surgery.
              Overall, the evidence presented above shows that FXI is critical for collagen
     induced thrombus propagation by promoting a considerable local increase in thrombin
     production, which in turn contributes to robust platelet activation and fibrin formation.
30   FXT inhibition however does not interfere substantially with primary hemostasis. Thus,
     therapeutic FXI inhibition represents an exceptionally promising treatment strategy to
     limit thrombus growth and thrombotic vessel occlusion (i.e. stroke, heart attack, DVT),
     while at the same time providing unmatched hemostatic safety compared with other
     currently available antithrombotic agents.
     LFOAL02/31025285vl                           -65-                       AttvDktNn  53%62/164712

        Example 2. Binding of the IA6 Monoclonal Antibody to Human Factor XI
               Results from a Western Blot study corroborating that anti-factor XI monoclonal
        antibody 1A6 recognizes Factor XI in human and non-human primate plasma is shown in
   5   Figure 7A.
               Comparative binding studies for monoclonal antibody 1A6 were conducted using
       FXI, Prekallikrein (PK), and FXI/PK chimeras involving either the substitution FXI
       domains with PK domains (Figure 9) or the substitution of PK domains with FXI domains
       (Figure 10). As shown in the right panel of Figure 9, monoclonal antibody 1A6 bound
 10    FXI but did not bind to PK. In addition, monoclonal antibody 1A6 bound all FXI/PK
       chimeras except the chimera in which the A3 domain of FXI was substituted with a PK
       domain (Figure 9). For chimeras involving the substitution of PK domains with different
      FXI domains, antibody 1A6 was shown to bind only to chimeras in which the A3 domain
      of FXI had been inserted (Figure 10). From these loss of function (Figure 9) and gain of
 15   function (Figure 10) studies, it was determined that monoclonal antibody IA6 bound to an
      epitope on the FXI A3 domain.
               Binding studies were also conducted using recombinant FXI proteins involving
      mutations of different amino acids within the A3 domain to determine amino acids
      important for the binding of monoclonal antibody 1A6. An example of the binding of
20    monoclonal antibody IA6 to a panel of 25 such recombinant proteins in which 2 or 3
      adjacent amino acids within the A3 domain were replaced with Alanine is shown in Figure
      11. Although a polyclonal anti-factor XI antibody bound to all FXI A3 domain mutants,
      monoclonal antibody 1A6 did not bind to some mutants (see Figure 11). Based on such
      studies, amino acids important for the binding of monoclonal antibody 1A6 to the FXI A3
25   domain were determined, and are shown in Figure 12 (amino acids 183 to 197, 203 to 204,
     234 to 236, 241 to 243, 252 to 254, and 258 to 260 of SEQ ID NO:1).
     Example 3. Sequencing of the IA6 monoclonal antibody and coding sequence
              mRNA was extracted from a hybridoma cell line expressing the murine antibody
30   known as Aximab (IA6), reverse transcribed, and antibody specific transcripts were PCR
     amplified. PCR products were cloned for determination of the nucleotide and amino acid
     sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions of this antibody.
     LEGALO2/31025285vl                         -66-                       AttvIlktNn 53362/364917

               The cell line was successfully recovered from frozen stocks. mRNA was extracted
       from the cell pellet of the hybridoma and RT/PCR was performed using a system of
       degenerate primer pools. Heavy chain variable region mRNA was amplified using a set of
       six degenerate primer pools (HA to HF) and light chain variable region mRNA was
   5   amplified using a set of eight degenerate primer pools (LA to LH).
              Aximab Heavy Chain:A strong DNA band of approximately the expected size was
       observed in primer pool HD. DNA from this band was purified and cloned, and eight
       clones were sequenced. Four of these clones aligned to give a functional, rearranged
       heavy chain (Table 2, Figure 13A).
 10
       Table 2. Aximab antibody (1A6) sequence analysis (CDR definitions and sequence
       numbering according to Kabat).
                                             H Chain                    L Chain
        CDR 1 Length                            7aa                       l5aa
        CDR 2 Length                           l6aa                       7aa
        CDR 3 Length                           l4aa                       9aa
        Closest Human Germline*           IGHV2-5 (76%)             IGKV4-1 (70%)
        Closest Human FW1 *               IGHV2-5 (80%)             IGKV4-l (83%)
        Closest Human FW2*                IGHV2-5 (86%)            IGKV4-1 (100%)
        Closest Human FW3*               IGHV2-70 (72%)            IGKV3-11 (78%)
        Closest Human J*                   IGHJ6 (92%)                 J4 (92%)
        Max No. Mouse FR                      9 (2)                      5 (3)
       Residues**
      * Germline ID(s) indicated followed by %homology.
     ** Indicates maximum number of mouse residues that need to be sourced from human
15   sequence segments with number of those potentially critical for affinity indicated in
     brackets.
             Aximab Light Chain: Strong DNA bands of the expected size were observed in
     primer pools LB, LC and LG. DNA from each band was purified and cloned, and four
20   clones from each band were sequenced. The eight clones from pools LB and LC were
     found to align with the well described aberrant kappa transcript found in some
     hybridomas. The four clones from pool LG aligned to give a functional, rearranged
     light chain (Table 2, Figure 13B).
     LEGALO2/31025285v1                          -67-                      AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

               The heavy and light chain variable region sequences from the Aximab hybridoma
      were determined. It was confirmed that Aximab is a murine IgG/kappa antibody and that
      both chains of this antibody have close sequence homologues in the human antibody
      databases through the framework regions (Table 2). This should facilitate subsequent
  5   humanization by either Composite Human AntibodyTm technology or CDR-grafting.
      Heavy and light chain clones of each antibody were produced and are therefore available
      for humanization. Exemplary CDR-grafted heavy and light chain variable region
      sequences are shown in Figure 13C and 13D.
 10            All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are
     indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All
     publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same
     extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and
     individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
 15           Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
     illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be obvious that
     certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended
     claims.
              This application is a divisional application taking priority from
20  Australian applications <removed-apn> and 2008326348, which are incorporated
    herein in full by reference.
25
30
    LEGALO2/31025285v1                            -68-                       AttvDktNo. 53362/364212

                                        WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
             1.      A biologically active anti-Factor XI (FXI) monoclonal antibody which
   specifically binds to an epitope in the A3 domain of the heavy chain of human FXI, wherein
   said epitope comprises at least two amino acid residues located between positions 183 to 260
 5 of SEQ ID NO: 1 and wherein mutagenesis of one or more of said at least two residues
   disrupts binding of the monoclonal antibody.
             2.      A fragment of the monoclonal antibody of claim 1, wherein said fragment is
   biologically active.
10
             3.      A method for inhibiting thrombosis without compromising hemostasis in a
   subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject an effective
   dose of an antibody or fragment according to claim 1 or claim 2.
15           4.      The method of claim 3, wherein said thrombosis is associated with
   myocardial infarction, unstable angina, atrial fibrillation, stroke, renal damage, pulmonary
   embolism, deep vein thrombosis, percutaneous translumenal coronary angioplasty,
   disseminated intravascular coagulation, sepsis, artificial organs, shunts, or prostheses.
20           5.      A method of reducing a required dose or complementing the effect of an
   antithrombotic agent in the treatment of thrombosis in a subject in need thereof, said method
   comprising administering to said subject an antibody or fragment according to claim 1 or
   claim 2 in combination with said antithrombotic agent.
25           6.      The method of claim 5, wherein said antithrombotic agent is a direct or
   indirect thrombin inhibitor, a Factor X inhibitor, a Factor IX inhibitor, a Factor XII inhibitor,
   a Factor V inhibitor, a Factor VIII inhibitor, a Factor XIII inhibitor, a Factor VII inhibitor, a
   tissue factor inhibitor, a profibrinolytic agent, a fibrinolytic or fibrinogenolytic agent, a
   carboxypeptidase B inhibitor, a platelet inhibitor, a selective platelet count-reducing agent, or
30 a Factor XI inhibitor.
             7.      A method for treating a coagulopathy associated with metastatic cancer in a
   subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject a
   therapeutically effective dose of an antibody or fragment according to claim 1 or claim 2 to
35 thereby treat the coagulopathy associated with metastatic cancer.
                                                  -  69
   3449633vl

             8.        A method for treating a coagulopathy associated with inflammatory reactions
   in a subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said subject a
   therapeutically effective dose of an antibody or fragment according to claim 1 or claim 2 to
   thereby treat the coagulopathy associated with inflammatory reactions.
 5
             9.        The method of any one of claims 3 to 8, wherein said subject is a mammal.
             10.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 8, wherein said subject is a non-human
   primate.
10
             11.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 8, wherein said subject is human.
             12.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 11, wherein said antibody or fragment
   is administered to said subject in a single dose of about 0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg.
15
             13.       The method of claim 12, wherein said antibody or fragment is administered
   to said subject in a single dose of about 2 mg/kg.
             14.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 13, wherein said antibody or fragment
20 is administered to said subject via systemic, topical, parenteral, or enteral administration.
             15.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a monoclonal antibody or
   fragment according to claim 1 or claim 2 as an active component.
25           16.       The pharmaceutical composition of claim 15, wherein said pharmaceutical
   composition is formulated for immediate release of said monoclonal antibody or fragment.
             17.       The pharmaceutical composition of claim 15, wherein said pharmaceutical
   composition is formulated for controlled release of said antibody or fragment.
30
             18.       Use of a therapeutically effective amount of a monoclonal antibody or
   fragment according to claim 1 or claim 2 for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a
   disease or condition in a subject, the disease or condition selected from the group consisting
   of:
35           (i) thrombosis;
             (ii) a coagulopathy associated with metastatic cancer; and
             (iii) a coagulopathy associated with an inflammatory reaction.
                                                    - 70
   3449633vl

             19.    The use according to claim 18, wherein the subject is a human.
             20.    An isolated polynucleotide encoding the biologically active anti-Factor XI
 5 (FXI) monoclonal antibody of claim 1 or the fragment of claim 2.
             21.    A composition comprising the biologically active anti-Factor XI (FXI)
   monoclonal antibody of claim 1, the fragment of claim 2, or the isolated polynucleotide of
   claim 20
10
             22.    A host cell comprising the isolated polynucleotide of claim 21.
             23.    A vector comprising the isolated polynucleotide of claim 21.
15           24.    The vector of claim 23, wherein said polynucleotide is operably associated
   with a promoter.
             25.    A host cell comprising the vector of claim 23 or claim 24.
                                                - 71
   3449633vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                             1/7
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Oregon Health & Science University
                      Vanderbilt University
                      Gruber, Andras
                      Tucker, Erik I
                      Hanson, Stephen R
                      Gailani, David
              <120>   ANTI-FACTOR XI MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
              <130>   053362/364212
              <160>   15
<removed-apn>
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   607
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   1
              Glu Cys Val Thr Gln Leu Leu Lys Asp Thr Cys Phe Glu Gly Gly Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Thr Thr Val Phe Thr Pro Ser Ala Lys Tyr Cys Gln Val Val Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Tyr His Pro Arg Cys Leu Leu Phe Thr Phe Thr Ala Glu Ser Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Glu Asp Pro Thr Arg Trp Phe Thr Cys Val Leu Lys Asp Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Glu Thr Leu Pro Arg Val Asn Arg Thr Ala Ala Tyr Ser Gly Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Phe Lys Gln Cys Ser His Gln Ile Ser Ala Cys Asn Lys Asp Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Val Asp Leu Asp Met Lys Gly Ile Asn Tyr Asn Ser Ser Val Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Ser Ala Gln Glu Cys Gln Glu Arg Cys Thr Asp Asp Val His Cys
                      115                 120                 125
              His Phe Phe Thr Tyr Ala Thr Arg Gln Phe Pro Ser Leu Glu His Arg
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Ile Cys Leu Leu Lys His Thr Gln Thr Gly Thr Pro Thr Arg Ile
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Lys Leu Asp Lys Val Val Ser Gly Phe Ser Leu Lys Ser Cys Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Ser Asn Leu Ala Cys Ile Arg Asp Ile Phe Pro Asn Thr Val Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Asp Ser Asn Ile Asp Ser Val Met Ala Pro Asp Ala Phe Val Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Gly Arg Ile Cys Thr His His Pro Gly Cys Leu Phe Phe Thr Phe Phe
              2750269v1

                                                            2/7
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-date>
              Ser Gln Glu Trp Pro Lys Glu Ser Gln Arg Asn Leu Cys Leu Leu Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Ser Glu Ser Gly Leu Pro Ser Thr Arg Ile Lys Lys Ser Lys Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Ser Gly Phe Ser Leu Gln Ser Cys Arg His Ser Ile Pro Val Phe
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Cys His Ser Ser Phe Tyr His Asp Thr Asp Phe Leu Gly Glu Glu Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Ile Val Ala Ala Lys Ser His Glu Ala Cys Gln Lys Leu Cys Thr
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Ala Val Arg Cys Gln Phe Phe Thr Tyr Thr Pro Ala Gln Ala Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Cys Asn Glu Gly Lys Gly Lys Cys Tyr Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Asn Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Pro Thr Lys Ile Leu His Gly Arg Gly Gly Ile Ser Gly Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Arg Leu Cys Lys Met Asp Asn Glu Cys Thr Thr Lys Ile Lys Pro
                      355                 360                 365
              Arg Ile Val Gly Gly Thr Ala Ser Val Arg Gly Glu Trp Pro Trp Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Val Thr Leu His Thr Thr Ser Pro Thr Gln Arg His Leu Cys Gly Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Ile Ile Gly Asn Gln Trp Ile Leu Thr Ala Ala His Cys Phe Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Gly Val Glu Ser Pro Lys Ile Leu Arg Val Tyr Ser Gly Ile Leu Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              Gln Ser Glu Ile Lys Glu Asp Thr Ser Phe Phe Gly Val Gln Glu Ile
                      435                 440                 445
              Ile Ile His Asp Gln Tyr Lys Met Ala Glu Ser Gly Tyr Asp Ile Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Leu Lys Leu Glu Thr Thr Val Asn Tyr Thr Asp Ser Gln Arg Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ile Cys Leu Pro Ser Lys Gly Asp Arg Asn Val Ile Tyr Thr Asp Cys
                              485                 490                 495
              Trp Val Thr Gly Trp Gly Tyr Arg Lys Leu Arg Asp Lys Ile Gln Asn
                          500                 505                 510
              Thr Leu Gln Lys Ala Lys Ile Pro Leu Val Thr Asn Glu Glu Cys Gln
                      515                 520                 525
              2750269v1

                                                            3/7
<removed-date>
              Lys Arg Tyr Arg Gly His Lys Ile Thr His Lys Met Ile Cys Ala Gly
                  530                 535                 540
              Tyr Arg Glu Gly Gly Lys Asp Ala Cys Lys Gly Asp Ser Gly Gly Pro
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Leu Ser Cys Lys His Asn Glu Val Trp His Leu Val Gly Ile Thr Ser
                              565                 570                 575
              Trp Gly Glu Gly Cys Ala Gln Arg Glu Arg Pro Gly Val Tyr Thr Asn
<removed-apn>
                          580                 585                 590
              Val Val Glu Tyr Val Asp Trp Ile Leu Glu Lys Thr Gln Ala Val
                      595                 600                 605
              <210>   2
              <211>   372
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 2
              caagttactc taaaagagtc tggccctggg atattgaagc cctcacagac cctcagtctg    60
              acttgttctt tctctgggtt ttcactgagc acttctggta tgggtgtagg ctggattcgt   120
              cagccttcag ggaagggtct ggagtggctg gcacacattt ggtgggatga tgataagtac   180
              tataacccat ccctgaagag ccagctcaca atctccaagg atacctccag aaaccaggtt   240
              ttcctcaaga tcaccagtgt ggacgctgca gatactgcca cttactactg tgctcgaaag   300
              aggtcttcgg ttgtagccca ttactatgct atggactact ggggtcaagg aacctcagtc   360
              accgtctcct ca                                                       372
              <210>   3
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   3
              Gln Val Thr Leu Lys Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Ile Leu Lys Pro Ser Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ser Phe Ser Gly Phe Ser Leu Ser Thr Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Met Gly Val Gly Trp Ile Arg Gln Pro Ser Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Leu Ala His Ile Trp Trp Asp Asp Asp Lys Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Ser Gln Leu Thr Ile Ser Lys Asp Thr Ser Arg Asn Gln Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Leu Lys Ile Thr Ser Val Asp Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ala Arg Lys Arg Ser Ser Val Val Ala His Tyr Tyr Ala Met Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              2750269v1

                                                            4/7
<removed-date>
              Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115                 120
              <210>   4
              <211>   333
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 4
              gacattgtgc tgacccaatc tccagcttct ttggctgtgt ctctagggca gagggccacc    60
              atctcctgca aggccagcca aagtgttgat tatgatggtg atagttatct gaactggtac   120
<removed-apn>
              caacagaaac caggacagcc acccaaactc ctcatctatg ctgcatccaa tctagaatct   180
              gggatcccag ccaggtttag tggcagtggg tctgggacag acttcaccct caacatccat   240
              cctgtggagg aggaggatgc tgcaacctat tactgtcagc aaagtaatgg ggatccgtgg   300
              acgttcggtg gaggcaccaa gctggaaatc aaa                                333
              <210>   5
              <211>   111
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   5
              Asp Ile Val Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser Leu Ala Val Ser Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Arg Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Asp Tyr Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Asp Ser Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Pro Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Asn Leu Glu Ser Gly Ile Pro Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Asn Ile His
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Val Glu Glu Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Asp Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   6
              <211>   372
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 6
              caagttactc taaaagagtc tggccctacc atagtgaagc ccacacagac cctcactctg    60
              acttgttctt tctctgggtt ttcactgagc acttctggta tgggtgtagg ctggattcgt   120
              cagccttcag ggaaggctct ggagtggctg gcacacattt ggtgggatga tgataagtac   180
              tataacccat ccctgaagag ccggctcaca atcaccaagg atacctccaa aaaccaggtt   240
              gtcctcacca tgaccaatat ggacgctgtg gatactgcca cttactactg tgctcgaaag   300
              aggtcttcgg ttgtagccca ttactatgct atggactact ggggtcaagg aaccacagtc   360
              2750269v1

                                                            5/7
              accgtctcct ca                                                       372
<removed-date>
              <210>   7
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   7
              Gln Val Thr Leu Lys Glu Ser Gly Pro Thr Ile Val Lys Pro Thr Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Thr Cys Ser Phe Ser Gly Phe Ser Leu Ser Thr Ser
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Met Gly Val Gly Trp Ile Arg Gln Pro Ser Gly Lys Ala Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Leu Ala His Ile Trp Trp Asp Asp Asp Lys Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Lys Ser Arg Leu Thr Ile Thr Lys Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Leu Thr Met Thr Asn Met Asp Pro Val Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ala Arg Lys Arg Ser Ser Val Val Ala His Tyr Tyr Ala Met Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Thr Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115                 120
              <210>   8
              <211>   333
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400> 8
              gacattgtgc tgacccaatc tccagattct ttggctgtgt ctctagggga gagggccacc    60
              atcacctgca aggccagcca aagtgttgat tatgatggtg atagttatct gaactggtac   120
              caacagaaac caggacagcc acccaaactc ctcatctatg ctgcatccaa tctagaatct   180
              gggatcccag acaggtttag tggcagtggg tctgggacag acttcaccct caccatctct   240
              tctgtgcagg aggaggatgt ggcaacctat tactgtcagc aaagtaatgg ggatccgtgg   300
              acgttcggtg gaggcaccaa ggtggaaatc aaa                                333
              <210>   9
              <211>   111
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   9
              Asp Ile Val Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Asp Ser Leu Ala Val Ser Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Ala Thr Ile Asn Cys Lys Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Asp Tyr Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Asp Ser Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Pro Pro
              2750269v1

                                                            6/7
                          35                40                45
<removed-date>
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Asn Leu Glu Ser Gly Ile Pro Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Leu Gln Glu Glu Asp Val Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Gly Asp Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   10
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   10
              Thr Ser Gly Met Gly Val Gly
              1               5
              <210>   11
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   11
              His Ile Trp Trp Asp Asp Asp Lys Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu Lys Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   12
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   12
              Lys Arg Ser Ser Val Val Ala His Tyr Tyr Ala Met Asp Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   13
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   13
              Lys Ala Ser Gln Ser Val Asp Tyr Asp Gly Asp Ser Tyr Leu Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   14
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   14
              Ala Ala Ser Asn Leu Glu Ser
              1               5
              <210>   15
              <211>   9
              2750269v1

                                                    7/7
              <212>   PRT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   15
              Gln Gln Ser Asn Gly Asp Pro Trp Thr
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              2750269v1

