1002161764
                                        ABSTRACT
        A system and method for performing ophthalmic surgery using an ultra-short
pulsed laser is provided. The system includes a laser engine configured to provide an
ultra-short pulsed laser beam, optics configured to direct the laser beam to an undocked
eye of a patient, an eye tracker configured to measure five degrees of freedom of
movement of the undocked eye, an optical coherence tomography module configured to
measure depth of the undocked eye, and a controller configured to control laser beam
position on the undocked eye toward a desired laser pattern based on depth and the five
degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye. Adaptive optics are also
provided. Also disclosed are a scleral ring including fiducial markings and a compliant
contact lens and fluid fillable contact lens configured to facilitate ultra-short pulsed laser
surgery while reducing or eliminating eye docking requirements.

1002161764
        SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPHTHALMIC LASER SURGERY
            EMPLOYING EYE TRACKING WITHOUT EYE DOCKING
               CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This present application is a divisional of parent application 2014237843, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                      BACKGROUND
Field
[00011       Embodiments of this invention generally relate to ophthalmic surgical
techniques, and more particularly to a surgical laser system using an ultra-short pulsed
laser for refractive and cataract procedures without docking a patient's eye.
Background
[00021       Eye surgery is now commonplace with some patients pursuing it as an
elective procedure to avoid using contact lenses or glasses and others pursuing it to
correct adverse conditions such as cataracts. Moreover, with recent developments in
laser technology, laser surgery has become the technique of choice for ophthalmic
procedures.    Laser eye surgery typically uses different types of laser beams, such as
ultraviolet lasers, infrared lasers, and near-infrared, ultra-short pulsed lasers, for various
procedures and indications.
[00031       A surgical laser beam is preferred over manual tools like microkeratomes as
it can be focused accurately on extremely small amounts of ocular tissue, thereby
enhancing precision and reliability.      For example, in the commonly-known LASIK
                                               1

1002161764
(Laser Assisted In Situ Keratomileusis) procedure, an ultra-short pulsed laser is used to
cut a corneal flap to expose the corneal stroma for photoablation with an excimer laser.
Ultra-short pulsed lasers emit radiation with pulse durations as short as 10 femtoseconds
and as long as 3 nanoseconds, and a wavelength between 300 nm and 3000 nm. Besides
cutting corneal flaps, ultra-short pulsed lasers are used to perform cataract-related
surgical procedures, including capsulorhexis, anterior and posterior capsulotomy, as
well as softening and/or breaking of the cataractous lens.
[00041      Laser eye surgery is performed while the patient is in a reclined position but
awake, meaning that the patient's eyes are moving during the procedure. As would be
expected, patient eye movement relative to the laser beam's focal point can undermine
the laser's accuracy and precision, and may even result in permanent tissue damage.
[00051      Hence, these types of surgeries may require use of a device called an eye
stabilizer or patient interface, commonly called "docking" of the eye.        Examples of
ophthalmic patient interface devices used for "docking" the eye are described in U.S.
Pat. No. 6,863,667, issued to Webb et al., U.S. Pat. No. D462,442 issued to Webb, U.S.
Pat. No. 6 623476, issued to Juhasz et al., and co-pending U.S. Pat. App. No.
 13/230,590, which are incorporated here by reference. While these devices effectively
restrain eye movement, and provide a positional reference mechanism enabling the
surgeon to deliver the laser to the eye with accuracy, they have certain challenges. A
common complaint is that the mechanical pressure or vacuum suction used to attach the
interfacing device to the eye causes discomfort and may contribute to post-operative
pain and hemorrhaging.       Another complaint is that patient discomfort and corneal
wrinkling are exacerbated when the interfacing device uses a rigid contact lens to
applanate or flatten the comea as part of the surgical procedure.
                                             2

1002161764
[00061      Eye tracking systems and devices monitor the position of a selected feature
of the eye and provide the laser system with real time signals about any displacement in
the position as a result of movement during surgery. Then, as necessary, the surgical
laser system uses the signals to adjust or re-position the focal point of the laser beam
before making an incision. Some examples of eye tracking systems and techniques are
disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6, 299, 307, issued to Oltean et al., which is incorporated here
by reference. In general, however, the delays inherent in eye trackers, coupled with the
high speed and degree of precision required for incisions in procedures using ultra-short
pulsed lasers, as well as the difficulty in accurately tracking the eye using an eye tracker
can result in less than ideal cuts.
[00071      Issues with performing any type of laser cataract or refractive ocular surgery
without a docking mechanism or eye stabilizer include the uncertainty of the position
and orientation of the eye at any point in time. Compounding this issue is the fact that
eyes tend to have different sizes, shapes, and textures in different individuals, and
certain aspects of the eye, such as the cornea and iris, change in color in an individual
eye. As a result, it can be difficult to quickly resolve and discern components of the eye
using an eye tracker.
[00081      Additional issues when using a docking mechanism include index of
refraction issues, wherein a laser provided to an eye can, in certain instances, make an
imperfect cut as a result of the refractive index of the light energy in air significantly
differing from that of the ocular tissue, occasionally resulting in beam reflection or
scattering. Further, use of a docking mechanism can increase intraocular pressure and
can cause comeal wrinkles that distort the laser beam.
[00091      In view of these challenges, there is a need for an ultra-short pulsed laser
surgical system that minimizes or eliminates the need for eye stabilization equipment,
                                               3

 1002161764
 and/or decreases the patient discomfort when eye stabilization equipment is used. In at
 least some embodiments, it is desirable that the ultra-short pulsed surgical laser system
without a "docking" arrangement or with limited eye stabilization provides robust and
 accurate cuts during refractive and cataract procedures.
 [0009A]         Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment
 or suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other
pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
 SUMMARY
 [0009B]         A surgical laser system configured to deliver an ultra-short pulsed laser
beam to a patient's eye is provided. The system comprises a lens configured to fit over
 an anterior surface of the patient's eye and substantially cover the cornea, the lens
 comprising a relatively flat anterior surface and a curved posterior surface; wherein the
 lens is configured to receive an ultra-short pulsed laser beam and facilitate performance
 of ocular surgery by providing an index of refraction closer to that of ocular tissue than
 air.
 [0009C]         A surgical laser system configured to deliver an ultra-short pulsed laser
beam to a patient's eye is provided. The system comprises a lens configured to fit over
 an anterior surface of the patient's eye and substantially cover the cornea, the lens
 comprising a relatively flat anterior surface and a chamber configured to maintain fluid
 in association with the patient's eye; wherein the lens is configured to deliver an ultra
 short pulsed laser beam to the eye of the patient and facilitate performance of ocular
 surgery by providing an index of refraction closer to that of ocular tissue than air.
 [0009D]         A system is described comprising a scleral ring configured to fit over a
 cornea of a patient, the scleral ring comprising an exterior circular ring formed with a
                                               4

1002161764
circular opening therein; wherein the scleral ring comprises at least one fiducial marking
discernible from a distance by an eye tracking device.
[00101       A system and method for performing ophthalmic surgery using an ultra-short
pulsed laser is described. The surgical laser system includes a laser engine configured
to provide an ultra-short pulsed laser beam; optics configured to direct the laser beam to
an undocked eye of a patient; an eye tracker configured to measure five degrees of
freedom of movement of the undocked eye; an optical coherence tomography module
configured to measure depth of the undocked eye; and a controller configured to control
laser beam position on the undocked eye toward a desired laser pattern based on depth
and the five degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye. Adaptive optics are
also provided. Also disclosed are a scleral ring with fiducial markings and a compliant
contact lens and fluid-fillable contact lens configured to facilitate ultra-short pulsed
laser surgery while reducing or eliminating eye docking requirements.
[00111       This summary and the following detailed description are merely exemplary,
illustrative, and explanatory, and are not intended to limit, but to provide further
explanation of the invention as claimed.       Additional features and advantages of the
invention will be set forth in the descriptions that follow, and in part will be apparent
from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objectives and
other advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure
particularly pointed out in the written description, claims and the appended drawings.
                                              5

1002161764
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00121      FIG. 1 illustrates a general overview of a ultra-short pulsed laser
arrangement configured to employ the present design.
[00131      FIG. 2 is a general diagram of the components employed in the ultra-short
pulsed ocular laser surgical system that does not require eye docking.
[00141      FIG. 3 illustrates the control arrangement of the present design seeking to
employ the ultra-short pulsed laser at a desired position of the eye.
[00151      FIG. 4 is a typical zoom beam expander employed with the present design.
[00161      FIG. 5 shows a typical setup of an eye tracker in accordance with the present
design.
[00171      FIG. 6 illustrates adaptive optics that may be employed in the present design.
[00181      FIG. 7A is a side view of an eye with a scleral ring provided.
[00191      FIG. 7B is a front view of an eye with a scleral ring provided in accordance
with one embodiment of the present design.
[00201      FIG. 8 illustrates a variety of potential scleral ring designs.
[00211      FIG. 9 is a side view of an eye employing a compliant contact lens for use in
ultra-short pulsed laser ocular surgery including fiducial markings.
[00221      FIG. 10 is a side view of an eye employing compliant contact lens for use in
ultra-short pulsed laser ocular surgery with a low force docking construction.
[00231      FIG. 11 illustrates a fluid-fillable contact lens for use in ultra-short pulsed
laser ocular surgery including fiducial markings.
[00241      FIG. 12 shows a fluid-fillable contact lens for use in femtosecond laser
ocular surgery with a low force docking construction.
                                                6

1002161764
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0025]      The drawings and related descriptions of the embodiments have been
simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of these
embodiments, while eliminating various other elements found in conventional collagen
shields, ophthalmic patient interfaces, and in laser eye surgical systems. Those of
ordinary skill in the art may thus recognize that other elements and/or steps are desirable
and/or required in implementing the embodiments that are claimed and described. But,
because those other elements and steps are well known in the art, and because they do
not necessarily facilitate a better understanding of the embodiments, they are not
discussed. This disclosure is directed to all applicable variations, modifications,
changes, and implementations known to those skilled in the art. As such, the following
detailed descriptions are merely illustrative and exemplary in nature and are not
intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter or the uses of such
embodiments. As used in this application, the terms "exemplary" and "illustrative"
mean "serving as an example, instance, or illustration." Any implementation described
as exemplary or illustrative is not meant to be construed as preferred or advantageous
over other implementations. Further, there is no intention to be bound by any expressed
or implied theory presented in the preceding background of the invention, brief
summary, or the following detailed description.
[0026]      FIG. 1 illustrates a general overview of an ultra-short pulsed laser
arrangement configured to employ the present design. From FIG. 1, laser engine 100
includes laser source 101 provides laser light to variable attenuator 102 configured to
attenuate the beam, then to energy monitors 103 to monitor beam energy level, and first
safety shutter 104 serving as a shutoff device if the beam is unacceptable. Beam
                                               7

1002161764
steering mirror 105 redirects the resultant laser beam to the beam delivery device 110,
through articulated arm 106 to range finding camera 111. The range finding camera 111
determines the range needed for the desired focus at the eye 120. Beam delivery device
 110 includes second safety shutter 112 and beam monitor 113, beam pre-expander 114,
X-Y (position) scanner 115, and zoom beam expander 116. Zoom beam expander 116
expands the beam toward IR mirror 117 which reflects and transmits the received beam.
Mirror 118 reflects the received beam to video camera 119, which records the surgical
procedure on the eye 120. IR mirror 117 also reflects the laser light energy to objective
lens 121, which focuses laser light energy to eye 120
[00271       In ophthalmic surgery using a pulsed laser beam, non-ultraviolet (UV), ultra
short pulsed laser technology can produce pulsed laser beams having pulse durations
measured in femtoseconds. Such a device as shown in FIG. 1 can provide an
intrastromal photodisruption technique for reshaping the cornea using a non-UV, ultra
short (e.g., femtosecond or picosecond pulse duration), pulsed laser beam produced by
laser source 101 that propagates through corneal tissue and is focused at a point below
the surface of the cornea to photodisrupt stromal tissue at the focal point.
[00281       Although the system may be used to photoalter a variety of materials (e.g.,
organic, inorganic, or a combination thereof), the system is suitable for ophthalmic
applications in one embodiment. The focusing optics, such as beam pre-expander 114,
zoom beam expander 116, IR mirror 117 and objective lens 121, direct the pulsed laser
beam toward an eye 120 (e.g., onto or into a cornea) for plasma mediated (e.g., non-UV)
photoablation of superficial tissue, or into the stroma of the cornea for intrastromal
photodisruption of tissue. In this embodiment, the system may also include a lens to
change the shape (e.g., flatten or curve) of the cornea prior to scanning the pulsed laser
beam toward the eye. The system is capable of generating the pulsed laser beam with
                                               8

1002161764
physical characteristics similar to those of the laser beams generated by a laser system
disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,764,930 and 5,993,438, which are incorporated here by
reference.
[00291      The ophthalmic laser system can produce an ultra-short pulsed laser beam
for use as an incising laser beam. This pulsed laser beam preferably has laser pulses
with durations as long as a few nanoseconds or as short as a few femtoseconds. For
intrastromal photodisruption of the tissue, the pulsed laser beam has a wavelength that
permits the pulsed laser beam to pass through the comea without absorption by the
corneal tissue. The wavelength of the pulsed laser beam is generally in the range of
about 400 nm to about 3000 nm, and the irradiance of the pulsed laser beam for
accomplishing photodisruption of stromal tissues at the focal point is typically greater
than the threshold for optical breakdown of the tissue. Although a non-UV, ultra-short
pulsed laser beam is described in this embodiment, the pulsed laser beam may have
other pulse durations and different wavelengths in other embodiments. Further examples
of devices employed in performing ophthalmic laser surgery are disclosed in, for
example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,549,632, 5,984,916, and 6,325,792, which are incorporated
here by reference.
[00301      FIG. 2 illustrates an alternate version of a system that may be employed with
the present design. The eye 215 of the patient is subjected to ultra-short pulsed laser
surgery. Eye movement may result from oculomotor systems (e.g. saccadic eye
movements), head movement, heartbeat, and other sources. Eye movement may be in
six degrees of freedom, including X, Y, and Z translations as well as rotations including
X-roll (D,), Y-roll ($y), and cyclotorsional angular rotation (Tc). From FIG. 2, laser
201 includes a laser engine configured to provide an ultra-short pulsed laser beam.
Attenuator 202 attenuates the beam, while laser blanking element 203, also known as a
                                               9

1002161764
fast shutter, turns the laser beam on and off at selected times to achieve the necessary
cutting profile. Adaptive optics 204 are variable optics used to correct waveform
aberration caused by the air-comea interface that materialize in the absence of eye
docking components. In one embodiment, a multiple part reflective surface or mirror is
employed in adaptive optics 204. The response frequency of the adaptive optics 204
corrects wavefront aberration when the laser is not raster scanning across the eye but is
performing a desired surgical procedure, such as chopping a cataractous lens.
[00311      Fast-z scan optics 205 adjusts position and focus of the laser beam to
actively follow the z (depth) position change due to eye movement. Z position is of
particular interest in ultra-short pulsed laser surgery. Gross z position for the laser focus
may be controlled by the slow motion z scan optics, such as the zoom beam expander
208 or the objective module 201, while the fine z position is generally addressed using
fast-z scan optics. In general, the fast-z scan optics 205 include lenses providing a
numerical aperture configured to provide the focal spot at a desired depth in the eye
215. The fast-z scan optics operate rapidly due to the changes that can result in depth
and are generally fast enough to compensate for the z (depth) change due to saccadic
movements resulting from by X-roll ((D,) and Y-roll (ciy).
[00321       OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography) module 206 employs OCT
technology to capture three dimensional images of biological tissue, such as ocular
tissue, using interferometric techniques. OCT module 206 generally comprises optics
and processing components configured to receive and view images of eye 215,
particularly depth images, and to provide depth or z information for further processing.
OCT module 206 generally provides a deeper penetration into the biological material
than other scanning technologies. As a result, the depth (z) information obtained by
OCT module 206 is enhanced as compared with other devices, such as eye trackers. In
                                              10

1002161764
a typical implementation, OCT module 206 may have an accuracy of approximately 10
micrometers, which is a function of the z-range of the laser affected zone of the ultra
short pulsed laser pulse. In addition to the depth measurement, the OCT module also
provides the topography and necessary structure of the eye so that the system can
calculate the wavefront aberration at the focus and use this quantity to control the
deformable mirror (adaptive optics) to correct the wavefront error.
[00331      XY Scan Galvanometer 207 controls the X-Y position of laser focus and
includes components that receive a current and move a mirror or reflective surface to
provide proper X-Y beam positioning. The XY Scan Galvanometer 207 has a latency
time sufficient to be actively adjusted to follow saccadic eye movements. Zoom beam
expander 208 expands the beam received from the XY Scan Galvanometer 207 and
provides the beam to objective 211, comprising a lens arrangement that focuses and
directs the beam to the eye 215.
[00341      Light energy from the eye passes back through the objective and to
beamsplitter 214, which directs light energy to zoom beam expander 208 and video
camera illumination fixation element 210. Illumination fixation element 210 provides
adjustable fixation direction. Such fixation facilitates alignment of a high grade
cataractous eye with desired surgical direction and may reduce gross eye movements.
[00351      Eye tracker 209 in this arrangement is a camera-based device that measures
five degrees of freedom of the eye 215, including X, Y, X-roll (Dx), Y-roll (1y), and
cyclotorsional angular rotation (Tc) of the eye 215. Eye tracker 209 measures
movement of the eye using a video camera and outputs eye position, typically the values
noted, X, Y, Dx, Oy, and Tc, to a system controller (not shown). Latency time, i.e. time
between movement of the eye 215 and measurement output from eye tracker 209 to the
system controller is preferably small. One example of operation may be the eye tracker
                                             11

1002161764
209 operating at a frame rate of 1000 Hz, with a latency time of less than 1.0
milliseconds. A high degree of accuracy is preferable, such as in the single digit
micrometer range and angular accuracy in the hundredths of degree range. Such values
tend to be a function of the distance range of the tissue affected zone affected by the
laser pulse, and more particularly the distance between the eye 215, objective 211, and
the video camera illumination fixation element 210 and eye tracker 209. A smaller
distance between these elements may enable a looser tolerance range.
[00361      Light energy provided to beamsplitter 214 is also provided to zoom beam
expander 208, XY Scan Galvanometer 207, and to beam splitter 212, which deflects the
light energy representing the image of the eye 215 to reflective surface 213 and OCT
module 206 for the OCT processing discussed above.
[00371      As noted, a system controller is provided but not shown in FIG. 2, wherein
the controller analyzes X, Y, Z, q)x, (Iy, and 'Pc data outputs, including recent histories,
and derives the eye position, velocity, and acceleration values of eye 215. The
controller may account for known or viewed behavior and may be employed as
discussed herein to predict eye trajectory during a forthcoming time period. The system
controller determines and seeks to compensate for the error between the laser focus
trajectory and the eye movement/position for the desired laser pattern. The system
controller provides commands as to how the beam delivery system (XY Scan
Galvanometer 207, fast-z scan optics 205, eye fixation light 210, and adaptive optics
204) are adjusted and timing of opening and closing of the laser blanking shutter in laser
blanking module 203.
[00381      For a desired cut profile, an enhanced laser pattern may be employed to
increase tolerance of position errors between intended position of the laser and actual
position of the laser. Such enhanced laser patterns may be similar to those described in
                                              12

1002161764
U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/XXX,XXX, (Attorney Docket No. IL0144USL),
entitled "Robust Laser Cutting Methods for Ophthalmic Surgery," filed January 16,
2013, inventors Hong Fu and John Tamkin, which is incorporated here by reference.
[00391      FIG. 3 provides a representation of a control module 300 employed in the
present device, which may take the form of a program provided in the system controller.
From the left side of FIG. 3, the desired laser pattern or current position of the laser
beam relative to the eye is input and represents the reference value of the present design.
The output is the actual position of the laser beam on the eye, and the eye position is
measured by both eye tracker 209 (X, Y, Ox, Dy, and 'c) and OCT module 206 (Z),
shown as eye position module 302. Laser beam position is determined by a beam
delivery confirmation module 303. Beam delivery confirmation module 303 represents
any device or arrangement that determines position of the beam on the eye, and may
include simple monitoring at the input or output of objective 211, out of zoom beam
expander 208, and/or observation by eye tracker or other external devices. Output of
the beam delivery confirmation module 303 is the position of the beam. Both this beam
position and the eye position are fed back to summation element 304, where output of
summing element 304 is the error between the desired position of the beam on the eye
(reference) versus the actual position of the beam on the eye.
[00401      Control algorithm 305 receives the error and other pertinent information
(historic eye position, eye movement profiles, expected future laser pattern, and so
forth) and provides control values to beam delivery components 306 to direct the beam
to the appropriate position on the eye. Beam delivery components 306 include X-Y
Scan Galvanometer 207, Fast-z scan module 205, adaptive optics 204, laser blanking
module 203, and fixation light 210. These components are configured to have alterable
                                             13

1002161764
parameters (position, focus, timing, and so forth) controllable by the controller 305 to
effectuate the desired position of the beam on the eye 301.
[00411      FIG. 4 illustrates a zoom beam expander that may be employed with the
present design as zoom beam expander 208. The zoom beam expander 208 includes a
number of lens elements that can be repositioned to effectuate expansion of the
incoming beam. View 401 shows various lens elements with middle elements 451, 452,
and 453 positioned to provide a beam for use in a capsulotomy at a 6.0 millimeter depth.
View 402 provides various lens elements with middle elements 451, 452, and 453
positioned for a flap creation procedure.
[00421      FIG. 5 shows an example of an eye tracker arrangement, showing alignment
fixture 501 and two cameras 501 and 502 positioned to view the eye from a distance.
The adaptive optics 204 may include a MEMS deformable mirror, shown in FIG. 6 and
in this embodiment having a 3.5 millimeter diameter. Control is provided for each
surface in the deformable mirror such that the various honeycomb or hexagonal
elements can be repositioned as desired to effectuate laser positioning and focus
commanded by the system controller.
[00431      In the arrangement shown in FIGs. 1-6, there is provided a system that
performs eye tracking and ultra-short pulsed laser surgery without the use of a docking
mechanism, wherein eye tracking provides sensing of five degrees of freedom for the
subject eye and an OCT system provides the sixth degree of freedom, namely depth.
The present design also employs adaptive optics, such as a deformable mirror, during
ocular surgery wherein the adaptive optics are employed to measure the wavefront,
adjust at least one reflective surface and compensate for patient movement during the
surgical procedure. Finally, a control system is provided that employs measurements
from the eye tracker and the OCT system for position of the eye as well as position of
                                             14

1002161764
the laser beam and compensates for errors in these positions by adjusting components of
the system, such as XY Scan Galvanometer, a Fast-z scan module, adaptive optics, a
laser blanking module, and/or a fixation light. The resultant device enables robust ultra
short pulsed laser surgery without the need for docking the eye of the patient.
Contact (Scleral) Ring with Fiducial Marker
[00441       As noted, one issue with eye tracking is the difficulty in discerning different
attributes and/or positions of an eye. Different eyes exhibit different visual
characteristics, and issues may arise such as a gradual change in color between the iris,
cornea, and/or sclera, and different refractive qualities to different eyes that can be
difficult to discern using an eye tracker.
[00451       In connection with the foregoing system, or for use with other systems
employing eye tracking, the present design may employ a device that places known and
readily discernible markers in connection with the eye for the express purpose of
tracking the position of the eye.
[00461       FIG. 7A illustrates a first embodiment of the present aspect of the design. In
FIG. 7A, scleral ring 701 is a hollow ring that fits over the eye 702 and contacts the
sclera 703. No material is provided in the center region, and thus the pupil, iris, and
cornea in a typical patient is unobscured and open for purposes of eye surgery. Under
typical situations, the eye, lid, and ocular fluid keep the scleral ring 701 in a fixed
position relative to the eye, i.e. the scleral ring 701 does not slide when the eye moves.
[00471       The scleral ring 701 is similar to a traditional contact lens in form and
construction, but may be made of a slightly more rigid material to hold the scleral ring
701 in place. Further, the construction of the scleral ring 701 may be flared slightly,
with a base 704 that is slightly larger than an average eye while the upper edge 705 is
                                                15

1002161764
sized to tightly contact the sclera of the patient in order to facilitate holding the entire
scleral ring 701 on the sclera 703. The base 704 or posterior surface material may be
compliant to allow the scleral ring to conform to the natural curvature of the eye, and
the scleral ring 701 may self-center in a manner similar to a contact lens.
[00481       In the embodiment of FIG. 7A, markers 706 and 707 are provided. These
markers may be dark markings in or on the scleral ring 701 that may be discerned from
a distance and may be resolved by an eye tracker, while the remainder of the scleral ring
is either a contrasting color, such as white in contrast to black, or clear/transparent
similar to a contact lens. A single marker or multiple markers may be provided,
sometimes called fiducial marks or fiducials, and the marker or markers may take any
form usable and discernible by an eye tracking system.
[00491       FIG. 7B illustrates a front view of an eye 751 including scleral ring 753
positioned in association with cornea 752. No covering exists over cornea 752, i.e. the
center of scleral ring 753 is a void or open space enabling ultra-short pulsed laser
surgery on the cornea. Fiducial markings 754 and 755 are provided, in this arrangement
squares having a dark coloring.
[00501       FIG. 8 shows various patterns that may be employed in a scleral ring in
accordance with the present design, including two marks 180 degrees apart on ring 801,
two marks 90 degrees apart on ring 802, three equidistant marks on ring 803, four
equidistant marks on ring 804, five equidistant marks on ring 805, a solid ring 806, rings
with dark outer and inner rings on ring 807, a ring with a dark inner ring and a lighter
center ring and an even lighter center ring in ring 808, two points positioned in close
proximity in ring 809, and five points randomly distributed in ring 810. As may be
appreciated, any type of mark or fiducial mark arrangement may be employed that
serves to facilitate eye tracking using an eye tracking mechanism.
                                               16

1002161764
[0051]      When used in connection with the system described above employing an eye
tracker, the scleral ring 701 can provide enhanced certainty of patient eye position and
may be less likely to result in positioning errors of the laser beam due to patient
movement or eye feature issues. Use of a scleral ring including fiducials tends to
significantly reduce time required for processing the image of the eye and enables
robust resolution of the position and orientation of the eye at any given time.
[0052]      In one embodiment, the scleral material comprises material similar to contact
lenses, including but not limited to polymers, RGP materials, hydrogels, and the like.
With respect to sizing and fit, the scleral ring is formed to allow a contoured fit to the
sclera for a general set of the population. One alternative is to provide a pre-made set of
scleral rings that match a specific set of patients. Using contact lens type materials to
form the scleral ring, external forces on the cornea are removed, intraocular pressure is
reduced, and corneal wrinkle risk can be decreased as compared to docking
arrangements previously employed.
Fluid Filled and Compliant Contact Lenses
[00531      During laser cataract surgery or certain portions of the LASIK procedure,
such as those employing a ultra-short pulsed laser as described herein, docking of the
patient's eye is typically provided using a conical patient interface including a suction
ring and a flat applanating lens. A curved patient interface or a liquid patient interface
may be used for docking to ease some of the discomfort. Again, as mentioned before
conventional docking and applanation procedures can cause patient discomfort at the
very least, and may in some instances, increase intraocular pressure and/or cause
corneal wrinkles. A further issue, particularly in the case of an eye tracker being used
with an eye subjected to ultra-short pulsed laser surgery, is a difference in the index of
                                               17

1002161764
refraction encountered between the air and the eye material. The drastic difference in
refractive index can in certain instances provide less than ideal laser cuts and the laser
beam can reflect or scatter when contacting ocular tissue.
[00541       To address these issues, the present design may employ a compliant contact
lens as shown in FIG. 9. As with other designs provided herein, the design of FIG. 9
requires no docking or physical patient interface. The device of FIG. 9 may be
employed with or without a scleral ring, and in the particular arrangement shown in
FIG. 9, markers or fiducials are illustrated. The compliant contact lens 901 includes a
posterior surface or inner edge 902 curved to conform either to the particular patient's
eye, or to an average or expected patient profile, such as the mean radius of curvature of
the general population. Compliant contact lens 901 fits over the cornea 903 and
comprises a flat or relatively flat exterior surface 904. The compliant contact lens 901
may be formed of a uniform single material construction or a multi-part construction to
facilitate patient comfort, tracking of the position of the eye, and ability of the laser to
successfully perform the desired cutting pattern.
[00551       The compliant contact lens 901 may be formed of or include a transparent or
translucent material having an index of refraction that matches or is very close to that of
the cornea, in humans approximately 1.37, where the compliant contact lens 901 is
penetrable by an ultra-short pulsed laser. The posterior surface or inner edge 902 may
be made from a material identical to or different from the rest of compliant contact lens
901 to enable the lens to conform to the natural curvature of the patient's eye and may
self center in a manner similar to a conventional contact lens. The inner edge 902 may
be provided with additional material or a fluid may be applied between the cornea 903
and the inner edge 902, or between the cornea 903 and material placed between the
inner edge 902 and the cornea 903. The material used for the exterior surface or
                                              18

1002161764
relatively flat exterior surface 904 may differ from the other components, layers, or
parts of compliant contact lens 901 to facilitate laser delivery.
[00561      As with the scleral ring discussed above, fiducials or markings provided,
such as fiducials 905 and 906, may vary but in general may take any for as discussed,
i.e. providing one or multiple markings, rings, or other eye tracker discernible
characteristics. As the flat exterior surface is a large surface rather than a ring, other
discernible markings or fiducials may be provided, including but not limited to lines,
arrows, different color markings, curves, and virtually any marking imaginable. As
shown in FIG. 9, either a support arrangement or a complete scleral ring 907 may be
provided at the base of compliant contact lens 901, separate from or adjoined to
compliant contact lens 901. Such a support arrangement or scleral ring 907 is not
required but can provide support and stability when deployed in the eye.
[00571      As an alternative to docking as well as an alternative to the design of FIG. 9,
compliant contact lens employing near zero force docking may be provided as shown in
FIG. 10. From FIG. 10, compliant contact lens 1001 does not include markings or
fiducials, but rather includes a cavity 1002 formed by exterior raised edge or edges
 1003, 1004 that may be docked with a lesser force than a traditional patient interface
docking arrangement, such as one employing a suction ring and flat applanating lens.
The device of FIG. 10 may be employed with or without a scleral ring. The compliant
contact lens 1001 includes a posterior surface or inner edge 1005 curved to conform
either to the eye of the particular patient, or to an average or expected patient profile,
such as the mean radius of curvature of the general population. Compliant contact lens
 1001 fits over the cornea 1006 typically includes a flat or relatively flat exterior surface
 1007.
                                               19

1002161764
[00581       Compliant contact lens 1001 may be formed of a uniform construction or a
multi-part construction. The compliant contact lens 1001 may include a transparent or
translucent material having an index of refraction that matches or is very close to that of
the cornea, where the compliant contact lens 1001 is penetrable by an ultra-short pulsed
laser. The posterior surface or inner edge 1005 may be made from a material identical
to or different from the rest of compliant contact lens 1001 to enable the lens to conform
to the natural curvature of the patient's eye and may self center in a manner similar to a
conventional contact lens. The inner edge 1005 may be provided with additional
material or a fluid may be applied between the cornea 1006 and the inner edge, or
between the cornea and material placed between the inner edge 1005 and the cornea
 1005. Again, the material used for the exterior surface or relatively flat exterior surface
 1007 may differ from the other components, layers, or parts of compliant contact lens
 1001, and a support arrangement or scleral ring 1008 may be provided in a manner
similar to that described with respect to the FIG. 9 design.
[00591       FIG. 11 illustrates an alternate embodiment of the present design including a
fluid filled contact lens 1101 having an open area configured to receive fluid from, for
example, entry point 1102 and exit from exit point 1103. The fluid filled contact lens
 1101 includes sides 1104 sufficient to receive and maintain fluid, such as using a hard
plastic or polymer, and rests primarily above cornea 1105. A certain distance is
provided between an upper surface 1106 and cornea 1105 sufficient for fluid to collect.
In certain instances, a vacuum may be formed by filling or partially filling the cavity
 1107 formed by the fluid filled contact lens 1101. Fiducials or markings may be
provided, and in FIG. 11, fiducials are shown by darkened elements 1108 and 1109, but
again, any form of marking discernible by an eye tracker may be employed. A support
arrangement or scleral ring 1110 may be provided. In other words, the exterior side or
                                               20

1002161764
sides 1104 may include at the base thereof a ring or element or elements 1110 used to
hold the fluid filled contact lens 1101 in juxtaposition with the sclera, and this ring,
element, or elements may comprise a scleral ring as described, or other appropriate
device.
[00601       Unlike the design of FIGs. 9 and 10, the design of FIG. 11 does not have a
posterior surface or inner edge, but instead provides fluid to gradually change index of
refraction from air to fluid to cornea. Additionally, once fluid is introduced into cavity
 1107, suction may be applied by reversing fluid flow, enabling the device to be
physically fixed to the eye. The resultant suction force is applied over a larger area,
reducing intraocular pressure.
[00611       FIG. 12 illustrates an alternate embodiment of a fluid filled contact lens 1201
that employs a low or near zero force docking function. As with the design of FIG. 11,
fluid filled contact lens 1201 has an open area configured to receive fluid from, for
example, entry point 1202 and exit from exit point 1203. The fluid filled contact lens
 1201 includes side(s) 1204 sufficient to receive and maintain fluid, such as a generally
circular side constructed of a hard plastic or polymer, and rests primarily above cornea
 1205. A certain distance is provided between an upper surface 1206 and cornea 1205
sufficient for fluid to collect. In certain instances, a vacuum may be formed by filling or
partially filling the cavity 1207 formed by the fluid filled contact lens 1201. In this
arrangement, fiducials or markings are typically not provided, but are not expressly
prohibited.
[00621       Compliant contact lens 1201 includes a cavity 1208 formed by exterior
raised edge or edges 1209, 1210 that may be docked with a lesser force than a
traditional patient interface docking arrangement, such as one employing a suction ring
                                               21

1002161764
and a flat applanating lens. The device of FIG. 12 may be employed with or without a
support arrangement or scleral ring 1211.
[00631      While shown in FIGs. 11 and 12 with entry point 1102 above exit point 1203
and on opposite sides of fluid filled contact lens 1101, for example, such positioning is
not required and the entry and exit points may be placed elsewhere on or in fluid filled
contact lens 1201 and 1202, and fluid may be provided and/or expelled or drawn
through a slit or larger opening than is illustrated. The intent is to provide and draw
fluid in an efficient manner while effectuating the functionality, including ultra-short
pulsed laser surgical functionality, disclosed herein.
[00641      In these embodiments, the device shown comprises a contact lens having a
relatively flat exterior surface configured to provide a buffer region between air and the
eye to decrease index of refraction issues. The device includes a piece configured to fit
over a cornea of a patient with a curved posterior surface and a flat or relatively flat
anterior surface, the piece dimensioned to cover the cornea of the patient's eye. In one
embodiment, markings or fiducial markings are provided, while in another embodiment
a cavity is provided using the anterior surface that facilitates a low force docking to the
eye. A second embodiment comprises a generally hollow contact lens comprising an
anterior surface adjoining at least one exterior wall with fluid entry and exit openings
provided, the anterior surface sized to cover a cornea of a patient. The generally hollow
contact lens may include markings or fiducials, and the generally hollow contact lens is
configured to be filled with fluid that contacts the cornea of the patient and facilitates
index of refraction transition from air to fluid to cornea. In an alternate embodiment, a
cavity is provided using the anterior surface that facilitates a low force docking to the
eye.
                                              22

1002161764
[00651       Thus according to one embodiment, there is provided an apparatus for
performing eye docking free laser surgery. The apparatus comprises an ultra-short
pulsed femtosecond laser engine configured to provide a laser beam, optics configured
to direct the laser beam to an undocked eye of a patient, an eye tracker configured to
measure five degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye of the patient, an
optical coherence tomography module configured to measure depth of the undocked eye
of the patient, and a controller configured to control laser beam position on the
undocked eye of the patient toward a desired laser pattern based on depth of the
undocked eye of the patient measured by the optical coherence tomography module and
the five degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye of the patient measured
by the eye tracker. The apparatus may include an adaptive optics device configured to
compensate for wavefront error based on topography of the undocked eye measured by
the optical coherence tomography module.
[00661      According to another embodiment, there is provided a method for
performing eye docking free laser surgery. The method comprises providing an ultra
short pulsed laser beam, directing the laser beam to an undocked eye of a patient,
measuring five degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye of the patient
using an eye tracker, measuring depth of the undocked eye of the patient using an
optical coherence tomography module, and controlling laser beam position on the
undocked eye of the patient toward a desired laser pattern based on depth of the
undocked eye of the patient measured by the optical coherence tomography module and
the five degrees of freedom of movement of the undocked eye of the patient measured
by the eye tracker. The method may include compensating for wavefront error based on
topography of the undocked eye measured by the optical coherence tomography
module.
                                             23

1002161764
[00671      A further embodiment includes a scleral ring configured to fit over a cornea
of a patient, the scleral ring comprising an exterior circular ring formed with a circular
opening therein. The scleral ring comprises at least one fiducial marking discernible
from a distance by an eye tracking device.
[00681      A further embodiment comprises a lens configured to fit over an eye of a
patient and substantially cover the cornea of the patient, the lens comprising a relatively
flat anterior surface and a curved posterior surface. The lens is configured to receive a
ultra-short pulsed laser beam and facilitate performance of ocular surgery by providing
an index of refraction closer to that of ocular tissue than air. An alternative embodiment
includes a lens configured to fit over an eye of a patient and substantially cover the
cornea of the patient, the lens comprising a relatively flat anterior surface and a chamber
configured to maintain fluid in association with the eye of the patient. The lens is
configured to deliver a laser beam to the eye of the patient and facilitate performance of
ocular surgery by providing an index of refraction closer to that of ocular tissue than air.
[00691       Those of skill in the art will recognize that the step of a method described in
connection with an embodiment may be interchanged without departing from the scope
of the invention. Those of skill in the art would also understand that information and
signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and
techniques. For example, data, data packets, packet groups, instructions, commands,
information, signals, and bits that may be referenced throughout the above description
may be represented by voltages, currents, electromagnetic waves, magnetic fields or
particles, optical fields or particles, or any combination thereof.
[00701       Those of skill in the art would further appreciate that the various illustrative
logical blocks, modules, circuits, and algorithm steps described in connection with the
embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware, computer
                                               24

1002161764
software, or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of
hardware and software, various illustrative components, blocks, modules, circuits, and
steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such
functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular
application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may
implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application,
but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from
the scope of embodiments of this invention.
[00711       An apparatus implementing the techniques or circuits described herein may
be a stand-alone device or may be part of a larger device. In one or more exemplary
designs, the functions described may be implemented in hardware, software, firmware,
or any combination thereof. If implemented in software, the functions may be stored on
or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer-readable medium.
Computer-readable media includes both computer storage media and communication
media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one
place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by
a computer.
[00721       Although embodiments of this invention are described and pictured in an
exemplary form with a certain degree of particularity, describing the best mode
contemplated of carrying out the invention, and of the manner and process of making
and using it, those skilled in the art will understand that various modifications,
alternative constructions, changes, and variations can be made in the ophthalmic
interface and method without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus,
it is intended that this invention cover all modifications, alternative constructions,
changes, variations, as well as the combinations and arrangements of parts, structures,
                                              25

1002161764
and steps that come within the spirit and scope of the invention as generally expressed
by the following claims and their equivalents.
                                            26

1002161764
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       A surgical laser system configured to deliver an ultra-short pulsed laser beam to
         a patient's eye comprising:
a lens configured to fit over an anterior surface of the patient's eye and substantially
cover the cornea, the lens comprising a relatively flat anterior surface and a curved
posterior surface;
wherein the lens is configured to receive an ultra-short pulsed laser beam and facilitate
performance of ocular surgery by providing an index of refraction closer to that of
ocular tissue than air.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the lens comprises at least one fiducial marking.
3.       The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the lens comprises a support element
provided at the base of the lens to support the lens on the eye of the patient.
4.       The system of claim 3, wherein the support element is a scleral ring.
5.       The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lens comprises at
least one edge formed adjacent the anterior surface and forming a cavity, the at least one
edge configured to enable docking of the lens to a patient interface.
6.       The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the posterior surface is
         made from a material different to the rest of the lens.
7.       The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lens comprises a
         chamber configured to maintain fluid in association with the patient's eye.
8.       The system of claim 7, wherein the lens is configured to receive fluid via a first
fluid opening and disperse fluid via a second fluid opening, wherein reversing fluid flow
from the chamber provides a level of suction maintaining the lens on the eye of the
patient.
                                              27

1002161764
9.       A surgical laser system configured to deliver an ultra-short pulsed laser beam to
a patient's eye comprising:
         a lens configured to fit over an anterior surface of the patient's eye and
substantially cover the cornea, the lens comprising a relatively flat anterior surface and a
chamber configured to maintain fluid in association with the patient's eye;
wherein the lens is configured to deliver an ultra-short pulsed laser beam to the eye of
the patient and facilitate performance of ocular surgery by providing an index of
refraction closer to that of ocular tissue than air.
 10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the lens is configured to receive fluid via a first
fluid opening and disperse fluid via a second fluid opening, wherein reversing fluid flow
from the chamber provides a level of suction maintaining the lens on the eye of the
patient.
 11.     The system of claim 9 or 10, wherein the lens comprises at least one fiducial
marking.
 12.     The system of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the lens comprises a support
element provided at the base of the lens to support the lens on the eye of the patient.
 13.     The system of claim 12, wherein the support element is a scleral ring.
 14.     The system of any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the lens comprises at least one
edge formed adjacent the anterior surface and forming a cavity, the at least one edge
configured to enable docking of the lens to a patient interface.
 15.     The system of any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the posterior surface is made
from a material different to the rest of the lens.
 16.     A system comprising:
         a scleral ring configured to fit over a cornea of a patient, the scleral ring
comprising an exterior circular ring formed with a circular opening therein;
wherein the scleral ring comprises at least one fiducial marking discernible from a
distance by an eye tracking device.
                                               28

1002161764
     17. The system of claim 16, wherein the scleral ring is flared, wherein a base of the
scleral ring is larger than an average eye, while an upper edge of the scleral ring is sized
to tightly contact the sclera of the patient.
     18. The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein the scleral ring is made from at least one
of the following materials: polymer, RGP materials or hydrogels.
                                              29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
