ABSTRACT
Fluid supply systems and methods for therapeutic fluid delivery systems, including those used
for negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) systems and methods.
FIG.3

               4/6
          36
                         14
      31                     34
                             .    60
   32                           33
30
         19  1
            18            13
                  FIG. 3

                                                  -1
       SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR POSITIONING FLUID SUPPLY SYSTEM
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>
which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/299,744, filed January
29, 2010 and entitled "Systems and Methods for Positioning Fluid Supply System", both being
incorporated by reference herein.
BACKGROUND
            1. Field of the Invention
[0002]     The present invention relates generally to positioning a fluid supply system. More
particularly, but not by way of limitation, the present invention relates to systems and methods
for positioning a fluid supply system proximal to a therapeutic fluid delivery system used in
conjunction with a negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) system.
           2. Background Information
[0003]      Clinical studies and practice have shown that providing a reduced pressure in
proximity to a tissue site augments and accelerates the growth of new tissue at the tissue site.
The applications of this phenomenon are numerous, but application of reduced pressure has
been particularly successful in treating wounds. This treatment (frequently referred to in the
medical community as "negative pressure wound therapy," "reduced pressure therapy," or
"vacuum therapy") provides a number of benefits, including faster healing and increased
formulation of granulation tissue. Typically, reduced pressure is applied to tissue through a
wound insert (e.g., a porous pad or other manifold device). The wound insert typically contains
cells or pores that are capable of distributing reduced pressure to the tissue and channeling
fluids that are drawn from the tissue. The wound insert can be incorporated into a wound
dressing having other components that facilitate treatment, such as, for example, a drape (e.g.,
adhesive surgical drape). Instillation of fluids (e.g., irrigation fluids and/or medicaments) may
be used in conjunction with negative pressure wound therapy to promote healing and/or
improve efficacy.
[0004]      In addition, the delivery of therapeutic fluids (e.g. saline or antibiotic fluids) to the
wound insert can also provide benefits. The connection and positioning of such fluid supply

                                                 -2
and delivery systems can challenging. In certain instances, the fluids can be located on a
separate IV support, but this requires the unit to be located either on or near the support. This
may present logistical issues if there is not sufficient room around the patient. If the unit is also
supposed to be portable then these support methods can have a negative impact on this
aspect of use.
[0005]      In addition, there are various connection methods, from cartridges to basic tube
routing systems that are currently used on fluid delivery pumps. Many existing systems have
limiting factors on the type of fluid container that can be used with the system. For example,
many cartridge systems specify a specific configuration for a fluid container or an expensive
tube set for that system, leading to cost issues as well as limiting flexibility for the user in the
type of fluid to be instilled.
[0006]      Furthermore, securing different sized fluid containers can also present problems on
portable products. Unwanted shifting of the fluid container can lead to kinks or disconnections.
For NPWT systems, this can lead to leaks and blockage alarms, or potentially a continued
break in therapy.
SUMMARY
[0007]     The present disclosure includes embodiments of fluid supply systems and coupling
such systems to therapeutic fluid delivery systems.
[0008]      Certain embodiments comprise a cartridge for attachment to a fluid delivery system.
In specific embodiments, the cartridge may comprise: a piercing device having a conduit, the
piercing device being for piercing a liquid container and creating a fluid communication
between the interior of the container and the conduit, the conduit having an outlet connection.
In particular embodiments, the conduit may comprise a pump component actuated by a fluid
delivery system to which the cartridge is coupled for pumping liquid from the interior of a
container to the outlet connection.
[0009]      In certain embodiments, the pump component may be a flexible conduit which forms
a peristaltic pump upon connection to a fluid delivery system having a peristaltic pump
actuator. In certain embodiments, the pump component may be a diaphragm pump configured
to be actuated by an actuator of a fluid delivery system to which the cartridge is coupled.

                                                 -3
[0010]      Particular embodiments may further comprise a support device for supporting the
liquid container. In certain embodiments, the piercing device may be configured to be attached
to the support device such that a container placed in the support device is pierced by the
piercing device. In specific embodiments, the conduit may comprise : a first coupling from the
piercing device to the pump component; and a second coupling from the pump component to
the outlet connection. In particular embodiments, the pump component may be a flexible
conduit between the first and second couplings.
[0011]      In certain embodiments, the piercing device may comprise a vent valve. Particular
embodiments may comprise a fluid delivery system for connecting to a cartridge, where the
fluid delivery system comprises an actuator for actuating the pump component of the cartridge.
In specific embodiments, the actuator may comprise a rotor to engage the conduit of a
cartridge to form a peristaltic pump. Specific embodiments may comprise a fluid delivery
system, where the actuator comprises a push/pull actuator to actuate a diaphragm pump of a
cartridge.
[0012]      Certain embodiments comprise a fluid supply system comprising a support device
configured to support a liquid container. The support device may comprise a base portion with
a first lateral extension and a second lateral extension extending from the base portion, and a
slot between the first lateral extension and the second lateral extension. The fluid supply
system may also comprise a cartridge coupled to the support device, where the cartridge is
configured to engage a fluid delivery system. In certain embodiments, the cartridge may
comprise a housing comprising a first end and a second end, and a first coupling member
proximal to the first end and a second coupling member proximal to the second end. Specific
embodiments may comprise a piercing device coupled to a retaining member, where the
retaining member is configured to engage the slot of the support device. Certain embodiments
may also comprise a conduit coupled to the piercing device and the first coupling member,
where the piercing device and the first coupling member are in fluid communication.
[0013]      In certain embodiments, the first lateral extension and the second lateral extension
may form a receptacle, and the piercing device may extend into the receptacle when the
retaining member is engaged with the slot. Particular embodiments may also comprise a liquid
container configured for insertion into the receptacle of the support device. In certain
embodiments, the piercing device may be configured to pierce the liquid container when the
liquid container is inserted into the receptacle of the support device. In specific embodiments,
an upper portion of the liquid container may comprise a support engagement member.

                                                -4
[0014]     In particular embodiments, the support engagement member may comprise an
extension and an aperture. In certain embodiments, the support engagement member may be
configured to engage a support member coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system. In
particular embodiments, the first lateral extension and the second lateral extension of the
support device may be curved and tapered. In specific embodiments, the fluid supply system
may be coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system comprising a control housing having a
lower support surface, and the slot may be positioned above the lower support surface. In
certain embodiments, the conduit coupled to the piercing device may not be occluded when
the retaining member is engaged with the slot and when the lower support surface of the
control housing is placed on a flat surface.
[0015]     Particular embodiments may also comprise a conduit coupled to the first and second
coupling members. In certain embodiments, the conduit may be configured to engage a pump
when the fluid supply system is coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system. In specific
embodiments, the pump may be a peristaltic pump. In particular embodiments, the cartridge
and the support device are integral components. In certain embodiments, the cartridge and the
support device may be separate components.
[0016]     Specific embodiments may also comprise a method of securing a liquid container in
fluid communication with a therapeutic fluid delivery system. In particular embodiments, the
method may comprise: providing a support device comprising a receptacle configured to
receive the liquid container and providing a cartridge coupled to the support device, where the
cartridge is configured to engage the therapeutic fluid delivery system. In certain embodiments
the cartridge may comprise a piercing device, and the method may include engaging the
piercing device with the support device so that the piercing device extends into the receptacle.
The method may also include placing the liquid container in the receptacle of the support
device, and piercing the liquid container with the piercing device.
[0017]     In specific embodiments, the cartridge may comprise a housing having a first end
and a second end the cartridge may comprise a first coupling member proximal to the first end
and a second coupling member proximal to the second end, and the piercing device may be
coupled to a conduit in fluid communication with the first coupling member. In particular
embodiments, the support device may comprise a slot, the piercing device may be coupled to
a retaining member, and the retaining member may be engaged with the slot of the support
device when the piercing member extends into the receptacle.

                                                 -5
[0018]     In certain embodiments, the support device may comprise a base portion with a first
lateral extension and a second lateral extension extending from the base portion, and the liquid
container may be placed between the base portion, the first lateral extension and the second
lateral extension when the liquid container is placed in the receptacle. In particular
embodiments, an upper portion of the liquid container may comprise a support engagement
member, and the therapeutic fluid delivery system may comprise a support member. Specific
embodiments of them method may comprise engaging the support engagement member of the
liquid container with the support member of the therapeutic fluid delivery system.
[0019]     Certain embodiments may comprise a method of securing a liquid container in fluid
communication with a therapeutic fluid delivery system.
[0020]     Any embodiment of any of the present systems and/or methods can consist of or
consist essentially of - rather than comprise/include/contain/have - any of the described steps,
elements, and/or features. Thus, in any of the claims, the term "consisting of or "consisting
essentially of can be substituted for any of the open-ended linking verbs recited above, in order
to change the scope of a given claim from what it would otherwise be using the open-ended
linking verb.
[0021]     Details associated with the embodiments described above and others are presented
below.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022]     The following drawings illustrate by way of example and not limitation. For the sake
of brevity and clarity, every feature of a given structure is not always labeled in every figure in
which that structure appears. Identical reference numbers do not necessarily indicate an
identical structure. Rather, the same reference number may be used to indicate a similar
feature or a feature with similar functionality, as may non-identical reference numbers.
[0023]     FIG. 1A depicts a perspective view of a pump-engagement cartridge according to an
exemplary embodiment.
[0024]     FIG. 1B depicts a partial schematic side view of the pump-engagement cartridge
coupled to a pump.

                                                 -6
[0025]     FIG. 2 depicts a perspective view of a support device for a liquid container according
to an exemplary embodiment.
[0026]     FIG. 3 depicts a perspective view of the pump-engagement cartridge of FIG. 1A
coupled to the support device of FIG. 2.
[0027]     FIG. 4 depicts a fluid container coupled to the pump-engagement cartridge of FIG.
1A and the support device of FIG. 2.
[0028]     FIG. 5 depicts the assembly of FIG. 4 coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system.
DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
[0029]     The term "coupled" is defined as connected, although not necessarily directly, and
not necessarily mechanically; two items that are "coupled" may be integral with each other.
The terms "a" and "an" are defined as one or more unless this disclosure explicitly requires
otherwise. The terms "substantially," "approximately," and "about" are defined as largely but
not necessarily wholly what is specified, as understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art.
[0030]     The terms "comprise" (and any form of comprise, such as "comprises" and
"comprising"), "have" (and any form of have, such as "has" and "having"), "include" (and any
form of include, such as "includes" and "including") and "contain" (and any form of contain,
such as "contains" and "containing") are open-ended linking verbs. As a result, a method that
"comprises," "has," "includes" or "contains" one or more steps possesses those one or more
steps, but is not limited to possessing only those one or more steps. Likewise, a connection
pad that "comprises," "has," "includes" or "contains" one or more elements possesses those
one or more elements, but is not limited to possessing only those elements. For example, in a
connection pad that comprises a fluid-delivery connection and a pressure-sensor connection,
the connection pad includes the specified elements but is not limited to having only those
elements. For example, such a connection pad could also include a vacuum connection.
[0031]     Further, a device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at
least that way, but it can also be configured in other ways than those specifically described.
[0032]     Referring now to the drawings, and more particularly to FIGS. 1A and IB, one
example of a pump-engagement cartridge 10 comprises a housing 1 1 , a piercing device 12,
and a conduit 13 coupled to piercing device 12. In the embodiment shown, housing 1 1 further

                                                -7
comprise a recessed portion 14 located between a pair of conduit coupling members 15 and
16 proximal to first and second ends 25 and 26, respectively. A conduit 20 (e.g., flexible
tubing) can extend between conduit coupling members 15, 16 and across recessed portion 14.
As explained in more detail below, pump-engagement cartridge 10 may engage a therapeutic
fluid delivery system so that the conduit between coupling members 15, 16 engages a pump
(e.g., a peristaltic or diaphragm pump) to provide delivery of a therapeutic fluid.
[0033]      In the partial schematic side view shown in FIG. IB, pump engagement cartridge 10
is shown coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 comprising a peristaltic pump 76. In
this embodiment, peristaltic pump 76 comprises an actuation member or rotor 77 configured to
engage conduit 20 in recess 14. In certain embodiments, conduit 20 may be located in a track
or groove extending across recess 14. As rotor 77 rotates and engages conduit 20, fluid is
pumped from coupling member 15 through conduit 20 and to coupling member 16. As
explained in more detail below, coupling member 15 is in fluid communication with conduit 13,
which can be placed in fluid communication with a fluid container. This configuration can allow
peristaltic pump 76 to pump fluid from a fluid container coupled to pump engagement cartridge
10.
[0034]      Referring now to FIGS. 2-4, one example of a support device 30 configured to
support a liquid container 50 is shown coupled to pump-engagement cartridge 10. FIG. 3
illustrates pump-engagement cartridge 10 and support device 30 coupled together to form a
fluid supply system 60, while FIG. 4 shows liquid container 50 placed in support device 30.
[0035]     As shown in FIGS. 2-4, support device 30 comprises a receptacle 31 configured to
receive liquid container 50. In the embodiment shown, receptacle 31 is formed by a pair of
lateral extensions 32, 33 that extend from a base portion 34. Lateral extensions 32, 33 are
curved and tapered to accommodate a variety of sizes and shapes of liquid container 50. In
this embodiment, lateral extensions 32, 33 are configured to provide a gap or slot 35. In the
embodiment shown, support device 30 also comprises an extension 36 that extends generally
vertical (when support device is positioned during use). As shown in FIGS. 3 and 4, extension
36 may be coupled to an upper portion of pump-engagement cartridge 10 and can provide
additional support for liquid container 50.
[0036]     As shown in the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 1 A, piercing device 12 is coupled to
a retaining member 17 configured to engage slot 35. In the embodiment shown, retaining
member 17 comprises a plurality of flexible ribs 18 that provide a positive engagement for a

                                                -8
friction fit between retaining member 17 and slot 35. In addition, a vent valve 19 may be
coupled to piercing device 12 to allow a user to vent liquid container 50 (if needed) as it is
emptied of fluid. In exemplary embodiments, piercing device 12 may comprise an elongated
body with a point or taper at an end distal to retaining member 17. During use, retaining
member 17 can be inserted into slot 35 so that piercing device 12 extends upward from slot
35. This arrangement provides for piercing device 12 to extend into receptacle 31 so that when
liquid container 50 is inserted into receptacle 31 , piercing device 12 can pierce liquid container
50. Alternatively, piercing device can be inserted into liquid container 50 prior to engaging
retaining member 17 with slot 35.
[0037]       As shown in FIG. 3, pump-engagement cartridge 10 and support device 30 can be
coupled together to form a fluid supply system 60. As shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, liquid container
50 can be placed in support device 30. With this arrangement, fluid from liquid container 50
can pass through piercing device 12 (which comprises an internal conduit), conduit 13,
coupling members 15, 16, and conduit 20. As shown in FIG. 5, fluid supply system 60 can be
coupled to therapeutic fluid delivery system 70. In certain embodiments, therapeutic fluid
delivery system 70 comprises a pump and control system configured to administer a
therapeutic fluid from fluid supply system 60. In specific embodiments, therapeutic delivery
system 70 may comprise a peristaltic pump that engages conduit 20 between coupling
members 15, 16. In certain embodiments, therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 may be
configured to deliver fluid to a negative pressure wound treatment (NPWT) system. In other
embodiments, therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 may be configured to deliver fluid to other
systems, including for example, those designed to administer fluids intravenously.
[0038]       Fluid supply system 60 provides numerous benefits as compared to previous fluid
supply systems. For example, fluid supply system 60 allows for liquid container 50 to be kept in
close proximity to therapeutic fluid delivery system 70. Referring now to FIG. 4, liquid container
50 comprises a support engagement member 51 with an extension 52 and an aperture 53. As
shown in FIG. 5, support engagement member 51 is configured to engage a support member
71 having a hook 72 and a handle 73. In certain embodiments, handle 73 can be extended
upwardly (from the position shown in FIG. 5). Such a configuration can allow for support
member 71 to support fluid containers of different lengths. Support member 71 and support
device 30 can provide a stable support for the upper portion of liquid container 50.
[0039]       Furthermore, support device 30 is configured to accept fluid containers of various
sizes and shapes, including for example, fluid containers ranging from 250 ml to 1 ,000 ml. The

                                                 -9
curved and tapered shape of lateral extensions 32, 33 allow support device 30 to support a
fluid container at different locations within receptacle 31. For example, a smaller fluid container
may be supported at a lower position within receptacle 31 because the fluid container would
enter receptacle 31 a greater distance before it engages lateral extensions 32, 33. A larger
container may be supported at a higher position within receptacle 31 because it would engage
lateral extensions 32, 33 sooner than a smaller fluid container. The engagement of piercing
device 12 with a fluid container, along with the engagement of retaining member 17 with slot
35 can stabilize the lower portion of a fluid container inserted into receptacle 31. In addition,
the engagement of support member 71 and support engagement member 51 provides stability
to the upper portion of the fluid container. These features allow a user to utilize different types
of fluid containers and does not require fluid containers specifically designed for this fluid
supply system. Such specialized containers can often increase the costs associated with fluid
supply systems.
[0040]     In addition, fluid supply system and therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 are
configured so that the systems may be supported by a flat surface without kinking or pinching
conduit 13. As shown in FIG. 5, therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 comprises a control unit
housing 74 having a lower surface 75 that can be used to support therapeutic fluid delivery
system 70 when placed on a flat surface. In this embodiment, retaining member 17 (which is
coupled to conduit 13) is located above lower surface 75 of control unit housing 74. This
configuration allows therapeutic fluid delivery system 70 to be supported on a flat surface
without causing conduit 13 to become occluded (e.g., pinched or kinked) under components
such as control unit housing 74 or retaining member 17.
[0041]     The various illustrative embodiments of devices, systems, and methods described
herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather, they include all
modifications and alternatives falling within the scope of the claims. For example, the support
device may be integrated with a side cover coupled to the therapeutic fluid delivery system.
Such an a configuration can assist in accommodating larger bottles. The side cover can also
be used to protect the delivery mechanism when not in use or during storage. In addition,
certain embodiments may utilize spring-loaded straps around the fluid container to assist in
securing the fluid container within the receptacle of the support device. Furthermore, certain
embodiments may not comprise a support device with a receptacle, but instead utilize the
piercing device in conjunction with straps and/or a side cover. In certain embodiments, the
support device and cartridge are integral components, while in other embodiments, they may
be separate components. In still other embodiments, the fluid container may be integral to the

                                                - 10
support device or pump engagement cartridge, and the system may not include a piercing
device. For example, a fluid container may be integrally formed with pump engagement
cartridge 10 and comprise a port that can be coupled to conduit 13. Such a configuration could
reduce the need to include a piercing device to assist in stabilization of the fluid container, due
to the fluid container being integrally formed with the pump engagement cartridge.
[0042]      Certain embodiments may comprise a load cell to prevent the fluid container from
running empty and to provide an indicator of fluid level.
[0043]      The claims are not intended to include, and should not be interpreted to include,
means-plus- or step-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a
given claim using the phrase(s) "means for" or "step for," respectively. It will be understood that
the benefits and advantages described above may relate to one embodiment or may relate to
several embodiments. It will further be understood that reference to 'an' item refers to one or
more of those items.
[0044]      The steps of the methods described herein may be carried out in any suitable order,
or simultaneously where appropriate.
[0045]      Where appropriate, aspects of any of the examples described above may be
combined with aspects of any of the other examples described to form further examples having
comparable or different properties and addressing the same or different problems.
[0046]      It will be understood that the above description of preferred embodiments is given by
way of example only and that various modifications may be made by those skilled in the art.
The above specification, examples and data provide a complete description of the structure
and use of exemplary embodiments of the invention. Although various embodiments of the
invention have been described above with a certain degree of particularity, or with reference to
one or more individual embodiments, those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations
to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope of this invention.

                                                - 11
CLAIMS
1.         A cartridge for attachment to a fluid delivery system, the cartridge comprising:
           a piercing device having a conduit, the piercing device being for piercing a liquid
container and creating a fluid communication between the interior of the container and the
conduit, the conduit having an outlet connection,
           wherein the conduit comprises a pump component actuated by a fluid delivery
system to which the cartridge is coupled for pumping liquid from the interior of a container to
the outlet connection.
2.         A cartridge according to claim 1, wherein the pump component is a flexible conduit
which forms a peristaltic pump upon connection to a fluid delivery system having a peristaltic
pump actuator.
3.         A cartridge according to claim 1, wherein the pump component is a diaphragm pump
configured to be actuated by an actuator of a fluid delivery system to which the cartridge is
coupled.
4.         A cartridge according to any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising a support device for
supporting the liquid container.
5.         A cartridge according to claim 4, wherein the piercing device is configured to be
attached to the support device such that a container placed in the support device is pierced by
the piercing device.
6.         A cartridge according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the conduit comprises
           a first coupling from the piercing device to the pump component; and
           a second coupling from the pump component to the outlet connection.
7.         A cartridge according to claim 7, wherein the pump component is a flexible conduit
between the first and second couplings.
8.         A cartridge according to any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the piercing device comprises a
vent valve.

                                                  - 12
9.          A fluid delivery system for connecting to a cartridge according to any of claims 1 to 8,
the fluid delivery system comprising an actuator for actuating the pump component of the
cartridge.
10.         A fluid delivery system according to claim 9, wherein the actuator comprises a rotor
to engage the conduit of a cartridge to form a peristaltic pump.
11.         A fluid delivery system according to claim 9, wherein the actuator comprises a
push/pull actuator to actuate a diaphragm pump of a cartridge.
12.         A fluid supply system comprising:
            a support device configured to support a liquid container, wherein the support device
comprises:
            a base portion with a first lateral extension and a second lateral extension extending
from the base portion; and
            a slot between the first lateral extension and the second lateral extension; and
            a cartridge coupled to the support device, wherein the cartridge is configured to
engage a fluid delivery system and wherein the cartridge comprises:
            a housing comprising a first end and a second end;
            a first coupling member proximal to the first end and a second coupling member
proximal to the second end;
            a piercing device coupled to a retaining member, wherein the retaining member is
configured to engage the slot of the support device; and
            a conduit coupled to the piercing device and the first coupling member, wherein the
piercing device and the first coupling member are in fluid communication.
13.         The fluid supply system of claim 12 wherein the first lateral extension and the second
lateral extension form a receptacle, and wherein the piercing device extends into the
receptacle when the retaining member is engaged with the slot.
14.         The fluid supply system of claim 13 further comprising a liquid container configured
for insertion into the receptacle of the support device.
15.         The fluid supply system of claim 14 wherein the piercing device is configured to
pierce the liquid container when the liquid container is inserted into the receptacle of the
support device.

                                              - 13
16.        The fluid supply system of claim 14 wherein an upper portion of the liquid container
comprises a support engagement member.
17.        The fluid supply system of claim 16 wherein the support engagement member
comprises an extension and an aperture.
18.        The fluid supply system of claim 16 wherein the support engagement member is
configured to engage a support member coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system.
19.        The fluid supply system of claim 12 wherein the first lateral extension and the second
lateral extension of the support device are curved and tapered.
20.        The fluid supply system of claim 12 wherein:
           the fluid supply system is coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system comprising a
control housing having a lower support surface; and
           wherein the slot is positioned above the lower support surface.
21.        The fluid supply system of claim 20 wherein the conduit coupled to the piercing
device is not occluded when the retaining member is engaged with the slot and when the lower
support surface of the control housing is placed on a flat surface.
22.        The fluid supply system of claim 12 further comprising a conduit coupled to the first
and second coupling members.
23.        The fluid supply system of claim 22 wherein the conduit is configured to engage a
pump when the fluid supply system is coupled to a therapeutic fluid delivery system.
24.        The fluid supply system of claim 23 wherein the pump is a peristaltic pump.
25.        The fluid supply system of claim 12 wherein the cartridge and the support device are
integral components.
26.        The fluid supply system of claim 12 wherein the cartridge and the support device are
separate components.

                                                  - 14
27.          A method of securing a liquid container in fluid communication with a therapeutic
fluid delivery system, the method comprising:
             providing a support device comprising a receptacle configured to receive the liquid
container;
             providing a cartridge coupled to the support device, wherein:
             the cartridge is configured to engage the therapeutic fluid delivery system; and
             wherein the cartridge comprises a piercing device;
             engaging the piercing device with the support device so that the piercing device
extends into the receptacle;
             placing the liquid container in the receptacle of the support device; and
             piercing the liquid container with the piercing device.
28.          The method of claim 27 wherein:
             the cartridge comprises a housing comprising a first end and a second end;
             the cartridge comprises a first coupling member proximal to the first end and a
second coupling member proximal to the second end; and
             the piercing device is coupled to a conduit in fluid communication with the first
coupling member.
29.          The method of claim 27 wherein:
             the support device comprises a slot;
             the piercing device is coupled to a retaining member; and
             the retaining member is engaged with the slot of the support device when the
piercing member extends into the receptacle.
30.          The method of claim 27 wherein the support device comprises a base portion with a
first lateral extension and a second lateral extension extending from the base portion and
wherein the liquid container is placed between the base portion, the first lateral extension and
the second lateral extension when the liquid container is placed in the receptacle.
31.          The method of claim 27 wherein an upper portion of the liquid container comprises a
support engagement member and wherein the therapeutic fluid delivery system comprises a
support member.

                                            -15
32.     The method of claim 31 further comprising engaging the support engagement
member of the liquid container with the support member of the therapeutic fluid delivery
system.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
