    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
                                                                ABSTRACT
                   The invention provides a chemical entity of Formula (I), and compositions comprising
   such chemical entities; methods of making them; and their use in a wide range of methods,
   including metabolic and reaction kinetic studies, detection and imaging techniques, and
 5 radioactive treatments; and therapies, including inhibiting PDE4, enhancing neuronal
   plasticity, treating neurological disorders, providing neuroprotection, treating a cognitive
   impairment associated with a CNS disorder, enhancing the efficiency of cognitive and motor
   training, providing neurorecovery and neurorehabilitation, enhancing the efficiency of non
   human animal training protocols, and treating treating peripheral disorders, including
10 inflammatory and renal disorders.

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
                             SUBSTITUTED PYRIDINE AND PYRAZINE COMPOUNDS
                                                                 AS PDE4 INHIBITORS
          INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE TO ANY PRIORITY APPLICATIONS
                   This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014241430
 5 the specification of which as originally filed is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
   Any and all priority claims identified in the Application Data Sheet, or any correction thereto,
   are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57. For example, this application claims
   priority to and the benefit of U.S. Application No. 61/786,288, filed on March 14, 2013, the
   disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
10                                                            FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                   The present invention relates to certain substituted pyridine and pyrazine compounds
   as inhibitors of PDE4 enzymes; derivatives of such compounds; compositions of such
   compounds; methods of making them; and their use in various methods, including detection
   and imaging techniques; enhancing neuronal plasticity; treating neurological disorders,
15 including psychiatric, neurodegenerative, cerebrovascular, cognitive and motor disorders;
   providing neuroprotection; enhancing the efficiency of cognitive and motor training;
   facilitating neurorecovery and neurorehabilitation; and treating peripheral disorders, including
   inflammatory and renal disorders.
                                                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
20                 The mammalian phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are a group of closely related enzymes
   divided into 11 families (PDEl-11) based on substrate specificity, inhibitor sensitivity and
   more recently, on sequence homology. The 11 families are coded by 21 genes, providing
   several of the families with multiple members. All mammalian PDEs share a conserved
   catalytic domain located in the COOH-terminal portion of the protein. In GAF-containing
25 PDEs, one or both GAFs can provide dimerization contacts. In addition, one of the GAFs in
   each of these proteins provides for allosteric cGMP binding (PDE2, PDE5, PDE6, PDE 11),
   allosteric cAMP binding (PDE10), and regulation of catalytic site functions (PDE2, PDE5,
   PDE6). The other families of PDEs have unique complements of various subdomains (UCR,
   NHR, PAS, membrane association) that contribute to regulation of activity. PDEs 1, 2, 3, and
30 4 are expressed in many tissues, whereas others are more restricted. In most cells, PDE3 and
                                                                           1

  1:
   \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
  PDE4 provide the major portion of cAMP-hydrolyzing activity (Francis, Physiological
  Reviews, 2011, 91, 651-690).
                  The PDE4 family includes four isoforms (PDE4A, B, C and D) with more than 20
  splice variants, making it one of the largest PDE subfamilies (Bender and Beavo, 2006).
5 PDE4 enzymes hydrolyze cAMP with a substrate apparent Km of 1-5 uM for cAMP. The
  PDE4 enzyme is reported to be regulated by two upper control region (UCR) domains.
  Depending on
                                                               la

        WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    differential RNA splicing, PDE4 variants can be distinguished into two major subgroups: long
    and short forms (Conti et al., J Biol Chem., 2003, 278, 5493-5496). Nine splice variants have
    been reported. PDE4D1, 4D2 and 4D6 all are shorter forms lacking UCRs. PDE4D3, 4D4, 4D5,
    4D7, 4D8 and 4D9 are longer forms that contain both UCRs and N-terminal domains important
  5 for their subcellular localization (Bender and Beavo, 2006).     Long form PDE4D3 activity is
    increased by PKA phosphorylation via Ser54 in the N-terminal UCRI (Alvarez et al., Mol
    Pharmacol., 1995, 48, 616-622; Sette et al., J Biol Chem., 1996, 271,              16526-16534).
    Conversely, Erk2 phosphorylation of Ser597 in the C-terminus of PDE4D3 causes a reduction in
    catalytic activity. One or several PDE4D isoforms are expressed throughout most tissues tested,
 .0 including cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, heart, liver, kidney, lung and testis (Richter et al.,
    Biochem. J., 2005, 388, 803-811).       The localization and regulation of PDE4D isoforms is
    thought to allow for tight and local regulation of cAMP levels, possibly limiting signal
    propagation in specific subcellular compartments.
            Numerous studies have highlighted a role for PDEs generally, and PDE4 in particular, in
 .5 modulating intracellular signaling pathways that regulate many physiological processes,
    including those underling neural plasticity, cognition, and memory. In particular, PDEs play an
    important role in intracellular signal transduction pathways involving the second messengers.
    cAMP and cGMP. These cyclic nucleotides function as ubiquitous intracellular signaling
    molecules in all mammalian cells.      PDE enzymes hydrolyze cAMP and cGMP by breaking
  o phosphodiester bonds to form the corresponding monophosphates (Bender and Beavo,
    Pharmacol.Rev., 2006, 58 (3), 488-520).       PDE activities are modulated in coordination with
    adenylyl cyclase (AC) and guanylyl cyclase (GC) activities through direct effectors and
    feedback pathways, thereby maintaining cAMP and cGMP levels within optimum ranges for
    responsiveness to signals.    The ability of extracellular signals to modulate the intracellular
25  concentration of cyclic nucleotides allows cells to respond to external stimuli across the
    boundary of the cell membrane.
            The cyclic nucleotide signaling cascades have been adapted to respond to a host of
    transduction systems including G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and voltage and ligand
    gated ion channels.    Cyclic nucleotides transmit their signal in the cell through a variety of
30  tertiary elements. The best described of these are cAMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) and
    cGMP dependent protein kinase (PKG). The binding of the cyclic nucleotide to each enzyme
    enables the phosphorylation of downstream enzymes and proteins functioning as effectors or
    additional elements in the signaling cascade. Of particular importance to memory formation is
    cAMP activation of PKA, which phosphorylates cAMP response element-binding protein
35  (CREB). pCREB is an activated transcription factor, which binds to specific DNA loci and
                                                     2

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    initiates transcription of multiple genes involved in neuronal plasticity. Both in vitro and in vivo
    studies have associated alterations in cyclic nucleotide concentrations with biochemical and
    physiological process linked to cognitive function (Kelly and Brandon, Progress in Brain
    Research, 2009, 179, 67-73; Schmidt, Current Topics in Medicinal Chemistry, 2010, 10, 222
  5 230). Signal intensity and the levels of coincident activity at a synapse are established variables
    that can result in potentiation of transmission at a particular synapse. Long term potentiation
    (LTP) is the best described of these processes and is known to be modulated by both the cAMP
    and cGMP signaling cascades.
             Focus on the role of PDE4 in memory stems from the discovery of the PDE4-like
 .0 Drosophila learning mutant dunce (dnc gene), a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of the
    PDE4 subtype (Yun and Davis, Nucleic Acids Research, 1989, 17(20), 8313-8326).             The dnc
    mutant flies are defective in acquisition and/or short-term memory when tested in several
    different olfactory associative learning situations, with negative (Dudai et al., Proc Natl Acad
    Sci., 1976, 73(5), 1684-1688; Dudai Y., Proc Natl Acad Sci., 1983, 80(17), 5445-5448; Tully
 .5 and Quinn, Journalof ComparativePhysiology, 1985, 157(2), 263-77) or positive reinforcement
    (Tempel et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci., 1983, 80(5), 1482-1486). In mammals, PDE4D knockout
    animals display decreased immobility in the antidepressant tail-suspension and forced swim test
    models (Zhang et al., Neuropsychopharmacology,2002, 27(4), 587-595), enhanced in vitro LTP
    in hippocampal CA1 slices (Rutten et al., Eur. J. Neurosci., 2008, 28(3), 625-632), and
  0 enhanced memory in radial maze, object recognition, and Morris water maze tasks (Li et al., J.
    Neurosci., 2011, 31, 172-183).
             Such observations highlight the interest in PDE-inhibition, including PDE4-inhibition, as
    a therapeutic target for numerous disorders and in cognitive enhancement. For example, by
    increasing cAMP levels, such inhibitors may be useful in treating cognitive deterioration in
25  neurodegenerative disorders such Parkinson's Disease and Alzheimer's Disease, as well as
    generally improving cognition in normal, diseased, and aging subjects. Various small-molecule
    PDE4 enzyme inhibitors have been reported e.g., Aza-bridged bicycles (DeCODE Genetics; Intl.
    Pat. Appl. Publ.        WO 2010/059836, May 27, 2010); N-substituted anilines (Memory
    Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2010/003084, January 7, 2010); Biaryls
30  (DeCODE Genetics; Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2009/067600, May 28, 2009, WO 2009/06762 1,
    May 28, 2009); Benzothiazoles and benzoxazoles (DeCODE Genetics; U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. US
    2009/0130076, May 21, 2009); Catechols (DeCODE Genetics; U.S. Pat. Appl. Publ. US
    2009/0131530, May 21, 2009), Pteridines (Boehringer Ingelheim International G.m.b.H.; U.S.
    Pat. 7,674,788, Nov 29, 2007); Heteroaryl pyrazoles (Memory Pharmaceuticals Corporation;
35  Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 2007/123953, November 1, 2007);           Naphthyridines (Glaxo Group
                                                      3

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
    Limited;       Intl.     Pat.  Apple.    Publ.    WO       2006/053784,    May      26,    2006);
    Piperazinyldihydrothienopyrimidines      (Boehringer Ingelheim International G.m.b.H.; EP Pat.
    1,874,781,     Jun 24, 2009); Nicotinamide derivatives (Pfizer; U.S. Pat. Apple. Publ. US
    2005/0020587, January 27, 2005); Heteroarylmethyl phenyl amines (Memory Pharmaceuticals
  5 Corporation; U.S. Pat. 7,087,625, August 8, 2006); Naphthyridines (Novartis AG; EP Pat.
    1,443,925, December 26, 2007; U.S. Pat. 7,468,370, Dec 23, 2008).
             However, PDE4 inhibitors have generally been associated with numerous side effects
    most notably emesis - that have typically limited their usefulness and tolerability (e.g.,
    Giembycz, Curr. Opin. Pharm. 2005, 5, 238-244). It is therefore desirable to develop improved
 .0 PDE4 inhibitors such as those showing higher potency, greater specificity, and better side effect
    profiles. The present invention meets these and other needs in the art by disclosing substituted
    pyridine and pyrazine compounds as potent and well-tolerated PDE4 inhibitors.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             The invention provides a chemical entity of Formula (I):
            R1
          N'-        R2
              3
            R
 .5       Formula (1)   , wherein
    R1, R2, R3, R4, Y and Z have any of the values described herein.
             In one aspect the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds
    of Formula        (I),  pharmaceutically   acceptable   salts of compounds     of Formula      (I),
    pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically
20  acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
             Chemical entities of compounds of Formula (I) are useful in wide range of methods as
    described herein. Isotopically-labeled compounds and prodrugs can be used in metabolic and
    reaction kinetic studies, detection and imaging techniques, and radioactive treatments.        The
    chemical embodiments of the present invention can be used to inhibit PDE4, in particular; to
25  treat a disorder mediated by PDE4, in particular; to enhance neuronal plasticity; to treat
    neurological disorders, including neurodegenerative disorders, cognitive disorders, and cognitive
    deficits associated with CNS disorders; to confer neuroprotection; and to treat peripheral
    disorders, including inflammatory and renal disorders.        The chemical embodiments of the
    present invention are are also useful as augmenting agents to enhance the efficiency of cognitive
30  and motor training, in stroke rehabilitation, to facilitate neurorecovery and neurorehabilitation,
    and to increase the efficiency of non-human animal training protocols. The invention is further
                                                      4

       WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
   directed to the general and specific embodiments defined, respectively, by the independent and
   dependent claims appended hereto, which are incorporated by reference herein.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following description,
 5 including the examples. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein
   have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although
   methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice
   or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials are described herein. In
   addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be
.0 limiting.
           For the sake of brevity, all publications, including patent applications, patents, and other
   citations mentioned herein, are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Citation of any such
   publication, however, shall not be construed as an admission that it is prior art to the present
   invention.
.5 Abbreviations
           The specification includes numerous abbreviations, whose meanings are listed in the
   following Table:
      Abbreviation                               Meaning
      ACN                                        Acetonitrile
      AcOH                                       Acetic Acid
      AIBN                                       2,2'-Azobis(2-methylpropionitrile)
      BOC                                        tert-Butyl dicarbonate
      n-BuLi                                     n-Butyl lithium
      DCM                                        Dichloromethane
      Deoxo-Fluor"                               B is(2-methoxyethyl)amino sulfur trifluoride
      Dess-Martin Reagent®                       1,1,1 -Tris(acetyloxy)- 1,1 -dihydro- 1,2
                                                 benziodoxol-3(1 H)-one
      DIPEA, Hinig's                             NN-Ethyl-diisopropylamine or N,N-Diisopropyl
      base                                       ethyl amine
      DMA                                        N, N-Dimethylacetamide
      DMF                                        NN-Dimethylformamide
      DMSO                                       Dimethylsulfoxide
      dppf                                       1,1 '-Bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene
                                                       5

       WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
      EtOAc, or EA                               Ethyl Acetate
      EtOH                                       Ethanol
      HOAc or AcOH                               Acetic Acid
      HPLC                                       High-performance liquid chromatography
      LAH                                        Lithium aluminum hydride
      LCMS, LC/MS                                Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
      MeOH                                       Methanol
      NBS                                        n-Bromosuccinimide,
      PdCI2 (dppf)-DCM adduct                    [1'1'
                                                 Bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]palladium(ll)
      Pd(PPh 3) 4                                Tetrakis[triphenylphosphine]palladium(O)
      TBAF                                       Tetrabutylammonium flouride
      TEA, Et 3 N                                Triethylamine
      TFA                                        Trifluoroacetic acid
      THF                                        Tetrahydrofuran
      TLC                                        Thin layer chromatography
      XtalFluor"                                 (Diethylamino)difluorosulfonium tetrafluoroborate
                                     TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
           The    use   of   subheadings     such   as   "General,"    "Chemistry,"     "Compositions,"
   "Formulations," etc., in this section, as well as in other sections of this application, are solely for
 5 convenience of reference and not intended to be limiting.
                                                  General
           As used herein, the term "about" or "approximately" means within an acceptable range
   for a particular value as determined by one skilled in the art, and may depend in part on how the
   value is measured or determined, e.g., the limitations of the measurement system or technique.
10 For example, "about" can mean a range of up to 20%, up to 10%, up to         5 %, or  up to 1% or less
   on either side of a given value. Alternatively, with respect to biological systems or processes,
   the term "about" can mean within an order of magnitude, within 5 fold, or within 2 fold on
   either side of a value.      Numerical quantities given herein are approximate unless stated
   otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately" can be inferred when not expressly
15 stated
           To provide a more concise description, some of the quantitative expressions given herein
   are not qualified with the term "about". It is understood that, whether the term "about" is used
                                                      6

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     explicitly or not, every quantity given herein is meant to refer to the actual given value, and it is
     also meant to refer to the approximation of such given value that would reasonably be inferred
     based on the ordinary skill in the art, including equivalents and approximations due to the
     experimental and/or measurement conditions for such given value. Whenever a yield is given as
  5  a percentage, such yield refers to a mass of the entity for which the yield is given with respect to
     the maximum amount of the same entity for which that could be obtained under the particular
     stoichiometric conditions.    Concentrations that are given as percentages refer to mass ratios,
     unless indicated differently.
             As used herein, the terms "a," "an," and "the" are to be understood as meaning both
 .0  singular and plural, unless explicitly stated otherwise.       Thus, "a," "an," and "the" (and
     grammatical variations thereof where appropriate) refer to one or more.
             A group of items linked with the conjunction "and" should not be read as requiring that
     each and every one of those items be present in the grouping, but rather should be read as
     "and/or" unless expressly stated otherwise. Similarly, a group of items linked with the
 .5  conjunction "or" should not be read as requiring mutual exclusivity among that group, but rather
     should also be read as "and/or" unless expressly stated otherwise. Furthermore, although items,
     elements or components of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular, the plural
     is contemplated to be within the scope thereof unless limitation to the singular is explicitly
     stated.
  10         The terms "comprising" and "including" are used herein in their open, non-limiting
     sense. Other terms and phrases used in this document, and variations thereof, unless otherwise
     expressly stated, should be construed as open ended as opposed to limiting. As examples of the
     foregoing: the term "example" is used to provide exemplary instances of the item in discussion,
     not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof; adjectives such as "conventional," "traditional,"
25   "normal," "criterion," "known," and terms of similar meaning should not be construed as
     limiting the item described to a given time period or to an item available as of a given time, but
     instead should be read to encompass conventional, traditional, normal, or criterion technologies
     that may be available or known now or at any time in the future. Likewise, where this document
     refers to technologies that would be apparent or known to one of ordinary skill in the art, such
30   technologies encompass those apparent or known to the skilled artisan now or at any time in the
     future.
             The presence of broadening words and phrases such as "one or more," ''at least," "but
     not limited to," or other like phrases in some instances shall not be read to mean that the
     narrower case is intended or required in instances where such broadening phrases may be absent.
35   As will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this document, the
                                                       7

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    illustrated embodiments and their various alternatives may be implemented without confinement
    to the illustrated examples.
                                                  Chemistry
             The term "alkyl" refers to a fully saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group.            The alkyl
  5 moiety may be a straight- or branched-chain alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms in
    the chain. Examples of alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, methyl (Me, which also may
    be structurally depicted by the symbol, " -        "), ethyl (Et), n-propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl,
    sec-butyl, tert-butyl (tBu), pentyl, isopentyl, tert-pentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, and groups that in light
    of the ordinary skill in the art and the teachings provided herein would be considered equivalent
 .0 to any one of the foregoing examples. Alkyl groups may be optionally substituted with one or
    more substituents including, but not limited to, hydroxyl, alkoxy, cyano, thioalkoxy, amino, and
    aminoalkyl.
             The term "haloalkyl" refers to the alkyl moiety, which may be a straight- or branched
    chain alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms in the chain substituted with a halo group.
 .5 Examples of haloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, -CF 3, -CHF 2, -CH 2F, -CH 2CF 3 ,
    CH 2CHF 2, -CH 2CH 2F, -CH 2CH 2Cl, or -CH 2CF 2 CF 3.
             The term "cyano" refers to the group -CN.
             The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially saturated carbocycle, such as
    monocyclic, fused polycyclic, bridged monocyclic, bridged polycyclic, spirocyclic, or spiro
  0 polycyclic carbocycle having from 3 to 12 ring atoms per carbocycle.                  Where the term
    cycloalkyl is qualified by a specific characterization, such as monocyclic, fused polycyclic,
    bridged polycyclic, spirocyclic, and spiro polycyclic, then such term cycloalkyl refers only to
    the carbocycle so characterized.        Illustrative examples of cycloalkyl groups include the
    following entities, in the form of properly bonded moieties:
                  0>2<           D OIOD, O. O.
25                                                      ~and                     '
             Those skilled in the art will recognize that the species of cycloalkyl groups listed or
    illustrated above are not exhaustive, and that additional species within the scope of these defined
    terms may also be selected.
                                                        8

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
            The term "halogen" represents chlorine, fluorine, bromine or iodine. The term "halo"
    represents chloro, fluoro, bromo or iodo.
            The term "heteroatom" used herein refers to, for example, 0 (oxygen), S (sulfur) and N
    (nitrogen).
  5         The term "heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic, fused bicyclic, or fused polycyclic
    aromatic heterocycle (ring structure having ring atoms selected from carbon atoms and up to
    four heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur) having from 3 to 12 ring atoms per
    heterocycle.    Illustrative examples of heteroaryl groups include the following entities, in the
    form of properly bonded moieties:
                                                  H                                   H
                       0      N       S         N        0    N                      NN
                                   Q/
                                                                  N'    /NN
                     _\/
                  0                       N                N
                                            N        N                ,and N
            The term "substituted" means that the specified group or moiety bears one or more
 .5 substituents. The term "unsubstituted" means that the specified group bears no substituents.
    The term "optionally substituted" means that the specified group is unsubstituted or substituted
    by one or more substituents.        Where the term "substituted" is used to describe a structural
    system, the substitution is meant to occur at any valency-allowed position on the system. In
    cases where a specified moiety or group is not expressly noted as being optionally substituted or
20  substituted with any specified substituent, it is understood that such a moiety or group is
    intended to be unsubstituted.
                                                  Formulas
            Any formula given herein is intended to represent compounds having structures depicted
    by the structural formula as well as certain variations or forms. In particular, compounds of any
25  formula given herein may have asymmetric centers and therefore exist in different enantiomeric
    forms. All optical isomers and stereoisomers of the compounds of the general formula, and
    mixtures thereof, are considered within the scope of the formula. Thus, any formula given
    herein is intended to represent a racemate, one or more enantiomeric forms, one or more
    diastereomeric forms, one or more atropisomeric forms, and mixtures thereof. Furthermore,
30  certain structures may exist as geometric isomers (i.e., cis and trans isomers), as tautomers, or as
    atropisomers.
                                                      9

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
             The symbols -        and -       are used as meaning the same spacial arrangement in
    chemical structures shown herein.       Analogously, the symbols      ' I   and -Ii    are used as
    meaning the same spacial arrangement in chemical structures shown herein.
                                                 Compounds
  5          As used herein, a "compound" refers to any one of: (a) the actually recited form of such
    compound; and (b) any of the forms of such compound in the medium in which the compound is
    being considered when named. For example, reference herein to a compound such as R-COOH,
    encompasses reference to any one of, for example, R-COOH(s), R-COOH(sol), and R-COO
    (sol). In this example, R-COOH(s) refers to the solid compound, as it could be for example in a
 .0 tablet or some other solid pharmaceutical composition or preparation; R-COOH(sol) refers to
    the undissociated form of the compound in a solvent; and R-COO-(sol) refers to the dissociated
    form of the compound in a solvent, such as the dissociated form of the compound in an aqueous
    environment, whether such dissociated form derives from R-COOH, from a salt thereof, or from
    any other entity that yields R-COO- upon dissociation in the medium being considered.
 .5          As used herein, the term "chemical entity" collectively refers to a compound, along with
    the derivatives of the compound, including salts, chelates, solvates, conformers, non-covalent
    complexes, metabolites, and prodrugs.
             In one aspect the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds
    of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I),
  o pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically
    acceptable metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
              In another example, an expression such as "exposing an entity to a compound of
    formula R-COOH" refers to the exposure of such entity to the form, or forms, of the compound
    R-COOH that exists, or exist, in the medium in which such exposure takes place. In still another
25  example, an expression such as "reacting an entity with a compound of formula R-COOH"
    refers to the reacting of (a) such entity in the chemically relevant form, or forms, of such entity
    that exists, or exist, in the medium in which such reacting takes place, with (b) the chemically
    relevant form, or forms, of the compound R-COOH that exists, or exist, in the medium in which
    such reacting takes place.       In this regard, if such entity is for example in an aqueous
30  environment, it is understood that the compound R-COOH is in such same medium, and
    therefore the entity is being exposed to species such as R-COOH(aq) and/or R-COO-(aq), where
    the subscript "(aq)" stands for "aqueous" according to its conventional meaning in chemistry
    and biochemistry. A carboxylic acid functional group has been chosen in these nomenclature
    examples; this choice is not intended, however, as a limitation but it is merely an illustration. It
35  is understood that analogous examples can be provided in terms of other functional groups,
                                                      10

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    including but not limited to hydroxyl, basic nitrogen members, such as those in amines, and any
    other group that interacts or transforms according to known manners in the medium that
    contains the compound. Such interactions and transformations include, but are not limited to,
    dissociation, association, tautomerism, solvolysis, including hydrolysis, solvation, including
  5 hydration, protonation and deprotonation.       No further examples in this regard are provided
    herein because these interactions and transformations in a given medium are known by any one
    of ordinary skill in the art.
              In another example, a "zwitterionic" compound is encompassed herein by referring to a
    compound that is known to form a zwitterion, even if it is not explicitly named in its zwitterionic
 .0 form. Terms such as zwitterion, zwitterions, and their synonyms zwitterionic compound(s) are
    standard IUPAC-endorsed names that are well known and part of standard sets of defined
    scientific names.     In this regard, the name zwitterion is assigned the name identification
    CHEBI:27369 by the Chemical Entities of Biological Interest (ChEBI) dictionary of molecular
    entities.    As is generally well known, a zwitterion or zwitterionic compound is a neutral
 .5 compound that has formal unit charges of opposite sign. Sometimes these compounds are
    referred to by the term "inner salts". Other sources refer to these compounds as "dipolar ions",
    although the latter term is regarded by still other sources as a misnomer. As a specific example,
    aminoethanoic acid (the amino acid glycine) has the formula H 2NCH 2COOH, and it exists in
    some media (in this case in neutral media) in the form of the zwitterion +H 3NCH 2 COO-.
  o Zwitterions, zwitterionic compounds, inner salts, and dipolar ions in the known and well
    established meanings of these terms are within the scope of this invention, as would in any case
    be so appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. Because there is no need to name each
    and every embodiment that would be recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art, no
    structures of the zwitterionic compounds that are associated with the compounds of this
25  invention are given explicitly herein.     They are, however, part of the embodiments of this
    invention. No further examples in this regard are provided herein because the interactions and
    transformations in a given medium that lead to the various forms of a given compound are
    known by any one of ordinary skill in the art.
              Isotopes may be present in the compounds described. Each chemical element present in
30  a compound either specifically or generically described herein may include any isotope of said
    element. Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as
    isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures
    depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom
    having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated
35  into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen,
                                                      11

        WO 2014/158998                                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    phosphorus, fluorine, sulfur, fluorine, chlorine and iodine, such as                2H,    'H, "C, " C,      14C,  1N,   180,
       o,   3P, 32P, 35    18F, 36Cl, mI , respectively.
                When referring to any formula given herein, the selection of a particular moiety from a
    list of possible species for a specified variable is not intended to define the same choice of the
  5 species for the variable appearing elsewhere. In other words, where a variable appears more
    than once, the choice of the species from a specified list is independent of the choice of species
    for the same variable elsewhere in the formula, unless otherwise stated.
                By way of a first example on substituent terminology, if substituent Slexample is one of Si
    and S2 , and substituent S2 example is one of S3 and S4 , then these assignments refer to embodiments
 .0 of this invention given according to the choices Slexample is Si and                  S
                                                                                             2
                                                                                                example is S 3 ; Slexample is Si
             2                                           2
    and    S example  is S4 ;   Slexample is S2 and S      example  is S3 ; Slexample  is S2 and        S 2 example  is S4 ; and
    equivalents of each one of such choices. The shorter terminology "Slexample is one of Si and S 2
    and "S 2 example is one of S3 and S4 is accordingly used herein for the sake of brevity but not by way
    of limitation. The foregoing first example on substituent terminology, which is stated in generic
 .5 terms, is meant to illustrate the various substituent assignments described herein. The foregoing
    convention given herein for substituents extends, when applicable, to members such as R , R2
    R3,  R4 Ra, Rb, Re, Rc , Rdl,Re, Rel,R', R9, Rh, Rj, R           R", R" and U, Y, Z, HAL, HET and any other
    generic substituent symbol used herein.
                Furthermore, when more than one assignment is given for any member or substituent,
  0 embodiments of this invention comprise the various groupings that can be made from the listed
    assignments, taken independently, and equivalents thereof. By way of a second example on
    substituent terminology, if it is herein described that substituent Sexample is one of Si, S2 and S 3 ,
    the listing refers to embodiments of this invention for which Sexample is Si; Sexample is S 2 ; Sexample
    is S 3 ; Sexample is one of Si and S 2 ;  Sexample is one of Si and S 3;      Sexample  is one of S 2 and S 3 ; Sexample
25  is one of Si, S 2 and S3 ; and Sexample is any equivalent of each one of these choices. The shorter
    terminology "Sexample is one of Si, S2 and S3 " is accordingly used herein for the sake of brevity,
    but not by way of limitation. The foregoing second example on substituent terminology, which
    is stated in generic terms, is meant to illustrate the various substituent assignments described
    herein.       The foregoing convention given herein for substituents extends, when applicable, to
               30             1    2   3   4 a    b    c      d    diee                     i           RRnUYZ
30  members such as Rl, R2, R3, R4 Ra, R , Re, R , R iRe, Re, R , R9, Rh, R R" R,                                 and U, Y, Z,
    HAL, HET and any other generic substituent symbol used herein.
                The nomenclature "Cij" with         j > i, when applied herein to a class of substituents, is
    meant to refer to embodiments of this invention for which each and every one of the number of
    carbon members, from i to j including i and j, is independently realized. By way of example, the
                                                                12

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    term C1 3 refers independently to embodiments that have one carbon member (C 1 ), embodiments
    that have two carbon members (C 2 ), and embodiments that have three carbon members (C 3 ).
             The term Cn-malkyl refers to an aliphatic chain, whether straight or branched, with the
    total number N of carbon members in the chain that satisfies n N< m, with m > n.
  5          Any disubstituent referred to herein is meant to encompass the various attachment
    possibilities when more than one of such possibilities are allowed. For example, reference to
    disubstituent -A-B-, where A # B, refers herein to such disubstituent with A attached to a first
    substituted member and B attached to a second substituted member, and it also refers to such
    disubstituent with A attached to the second member and B attached to the first substituted
 .0 member.
             According to the foregoing interpretive considerations on assignments and nomenclature,
    it is understood that explicit reference herein to a set implies, where chemically meaningful and
    unless indicated otherwise, independent reference to embodiments of such set, and reference to
    each and every one of the possible embodiments of subsets of the set referred to explicitly.
 .5          The term "prodrug" means a precursor of a designated compound that, following
    administration to a subject, yields the compound in vivo via a chemical or physiological process
    such as solvolysis or enzymatic cleavage, or under physiological conditions (e.g., a prodrug on
    being brought to physiological pH is converted to the compound of Formula (I)).
             A "pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug" is a prodrug that is preferably non-toxic,
  0 biologically tolerable, and otherwise biologically suitable for administration to the subject.
    Illustrative procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are
    described, for example, in "Design of Prodrugs", ed. H. Bundgaard, Elsevier, 1985.
             A "metabolite" means a pharmacologically active product of metabolism in the body of a
    compound of Formula (I) or salt thereof. Preferably, the metabolite is in an isolated form outside
25  the body.
                                               Compositions
             The term "composition," as in pharmaceutical composition, is intended to encompass a
    product comprising the active ingredient(s), and the inert ingredient(s) (pharmaceutically
    acceptable excipients) that make up the carrier, as well as any product which results, directly or
30  indirectly, from combination, complexation, or aggregation of any two or more of the
    ingredients, or from dissociation of one or more of the ingredients, or from other types of
    reactions or interactions of one or more of the ingredients.      Accordingly, the pharmaceutical
    compositions of the present invention encompass any composition made by admixing a
    compound of Formula (I) and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                                      13

       WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable," as used in connection with compositions of the
    invention, refers to molecular entities and other ingredients of such compositions that are
    physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce untoward reactions when administered to
    an animal (e.g., human). The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" may also mean approved by a
  5 regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or
    other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals (e.g. mammals), and more
    particularly in humans.
            A "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" refers to a substance that is non-toxic,
    biologically tolerable, and otherwise biologically suitable for administration to a subject, such as
 .0 an inert substance, added to a pharmacological composition or otherwise used as a vehicle,
    carrier, or diluents to facilitate administration of an agent and that is compatible therewith.
    Examples of excipients include calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, various sugars and types
    of starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, vegetable oils, and polyethylene glycols.        Suitable
    pharmaceutical carriers include those described in Remington: The Science and Practice of
 .5 Pharmacy, 21st Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (2005).
            A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" is intended to mean a salt of a free acid or base of a
    compound represented by Formula (I) that is non-toxic, biologically tolerable, or otherwise
    biologically suitable for administration to the subject.    See, generally, G.S. Paulekuhn et al.,
    Trends in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient Salt Selection based on Analysis of the Orange
  0 Book Database, J. Med. Chem. 2007, 50, 6665-6672;           Berge et al., Pharmaceutical Salts, J.
    Pharm. Sci. 1977, 66, 1-19; Stahl and Wermuth (eds), Pharmaceutical Salts; Properties,
    Selection, and Use: 2nd Revised Edition, Wiley-VCS, Zurich, Switzerland (2011). Examples of
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts are those that are pharmacologically effective and suitable for
    contact with the tissues of patients without undue toxicity, irritation, or allergic response. A
25  compound of Formula (I) may possess a sufficiently acidic group, a sufficiently basic group, or
    both types of functional groups, and accordingly react with a number of inorganic or organic
    bases, and inorganic and organic acids, to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt bases, and
    inorganic and organic acids, to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
            The term "carrier" refers to an adjuvant, vehicle, or excipients, with which the compound
30  is administered.    In preferred embodiments of this invention, the carrier is a solid carrier.
    Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include those described in Remington: The Science and
    Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (2005).
            The term "dosage form," as used herein, is the form in which the dose is to be
    administered to the subject or patient.       The drug is generally administered as part of a
35  formulation that includes nonmedical agents.        The dosage form has unique physical and
                                                     14

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    pharmaceutical characteristics.     Dosage forms, for example, may be solid, liquid or gaseous.
    "Dosage forms" may include, for example, a capsule, tablet, caplet, gel caplet (gelcap), syrup, a
    liquid composition, a powder, a concentrated powder, a concentrated powder admixed with a
    liquid, a chewable form, a swallowable form, a dissolvable form, an effervescent, a granulated
  5 form, and an oral liquid solution. In a specific embodiment, the dosage form is a solid dosage
    form, and more specifically, comprises a tablet or capsule.
             As used herein, the term "inert" refer to any inactive ingredient of a described
    composition.    The definition of "inactive ingredient" as used herein follows that of the U.S.
    Food and Drug Administration, as defined in 21 C.F.R. 201.3(b)(8), which is any component of
 .0 a drug product other than the active ingredient.
                                             Methods and Uses
           As used herein, the term "disorder" is used interchangeably with "disease" or "condition".
    For example, a CNS disorder also means a CNS disease or a CNS condition.
           As used herein, the term "cognitive impairment" is used interchangeably with "cognitive
 .5 dysfunction" or "cognitive deficit," all of which are deemed to cover the same therapeutic
    indications.
            The terms "treating," "treatment," and "treat" cover therapeutic methods directed to a
    disease-state in a subject and include: (i) preventing the disease-state from occurring, in
    particular, when the subject is predisposed to the disease-state but has not yet been diagnosed as
  0 having it; (ii) inhibiting the disease-state, e.g., arresting its development (progression) or
    delaying its onset; and (iii) relieving the disease-state, e.g., causing regression of the disease
    state until a desired endpoint is reached. Treating also includes ameliorating a symptom of a
    disease (e.g., reducing the pain, discomfort, or deficit), wherein such amelioration may be
    directly affecting the disease (e.g., affecting the disease's cause, transmission, or expression) or
25  not directly affecting the disease.
             As used in the present disclosure, the term "effective amount" is interchangeable with
    "therapeutically effective amount" and means an amount or dose of a compound or composition
    effective in treating the particular disease, condition, or disorder disclosed herein, and thus
    "treating" includes producing a desired preventative, inhibitory, relieving, or ameliorative effect.
30  In methods of treatment according to the invention, "an effective amount" of at least one
    compound according to the invention is administered to a subject (e.g., a mammal).               An
    "effective amount" also means an amount or dose of a compound or composition effective to
    modulate activity of PDE4 or an associated signaling pathway, such as the CREB pathway and
    thus produce the desired modulatory effect. The "effective amount" will vary, depending on the
35  compound, the disease, the type of treatment desired, and its severity, and age, weight, etc.
                                                      15

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
            The term "animal" is interchangeable with "subject" and may be a vertebrate, in
    particular, a mammal, and more particularly, a human, and includes a laboratory animal in the
    context of a clinical trial or screening or activity experiment. Thus, as can be readily understood
    by one of ordinary skill in the art, the compositions and methods of the present invention are
  5 particularly suited to administration to any vertebrate, particularly a mammal, and more
    particularly, a human.
            As used herein, a "control animal" or a "normal animal" is an animal that is of the same
    species as, and otherwise comparable to (e.g., similar age, sex), the animal that is trained under
    conditions sufficient to induce transcription-dependent memory formation in that animal.
 .0        By "enhance," "enhancing," or "enhancement" is meant the ability to potentiate, increase,
    improve or make greater or better, relative to normal, a biochemical or physiological action or
    effect. For example, enhancing long term memory formation refers to the ability to potentiate or
    increase long term memory formation in an animal relative to the normal long term memory
    formation of the animal or controls. As a result, long term memory acquisition is faster or better
 .5 retained.    Enhancing performance of a cognitive task refers to the ability to potentiate or
    improve performance of a specified cognitive task by an animal relative to the normal
    performance of the cognitive task by the animal or controls.
           As used herein, the term "training protocol," or "training," refers to either "cognitive
    training" or "motor training."        The phrase "in conjunction" means that a compound or
  0 composition of the present invention enhances CREB pathway function during cognitive or
    motor training.
           Reference will now be made to the embodiments of the present invention, examples of
    which are illustrated by and described in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and
    examples. While certain embodiments are described herein, it is understood that the described
25  embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. On the contrary, the present
    disclosure is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that can be included
    within the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                               COMPOUNDS
            The present invention provides certain substituted pyridine and pyriazine derivatives,
30  which are useful, for example, as inhibitors of PDE4 enzymatic activity. They are distinct from
    tri-substituted pyridines are disclosed in the following publications: US Pat. 7,399,761(Novartis
    AG, November 14, 2002, CAS No. 1106203-18-2, 1106203-.16-0); Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO
    2003050098, (Maxia Pharmaceuticals, June 19, 2003, CAS No. 544475-13-0, 544475-12-9) and
    JP Pat. 4,321,737 (Intl. Pat. Appl. Publ. WO 9931062, Shionogi & Co., Jun 24, 1999, CAS No.
35  228096-03-5, 228096-04-6).
                                                        16

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
             In its many embodiments, the invention is directed to a chemical entity of Formula (I):
            R1
          N'-        R2
    RtO    KZ
              3
            R
          Formula (1)
    wherein:
    Z is CH or N;
  5   i) wherein when Z is CH, then;
    R1 is a member selected from the group consisting of: -H, -C1. 3 alkyl and -C1. 3haloalkyl;
    Y is -C(Ra) 2 -, where each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting of: -H, -F,
             CH 3 , -OH and -N(Rb) 2 ;
    R2 is a member selected from the group consisting of:
 .0          A) phenyl unsubstituted or substituted with one or two RC members, where each RC is
                 independently selected from the group consisting of: halo, -CN, -CO 2 R , -CONH 2 ,
                  SO 2 CH 3 , -C(R ) 2 0H, -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CONH 2, -CH 2CO 2CI- 3alkyl, -NHCONH 2,
                                                              /    CO2CH2CH3      CONH2
                 NHCONH-oxetane, -CONH-oxetane,                           and           .
             B) six-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen
 .5              members unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each independently
                 selected from the group consisting of: halo, -C1. 3 alkyl, -CI 3 haloalkyl, -CN, -OH,
                 C(R ) 2 0H, -CH 2NH 2, -C(Rb) 2 CN, -C(Rb) 2CONH 2 , -OCH 2CONH 2, -OC1.3alkyl,
                 OCH 2 C(Rb)2 0H, -OCH 2cyclopropyl, -OCI 3haloalkyl, -CO 2 H, -CON(R) 2 , -N(R) 2 ,
                 NHCH 2CF 3,         -NHCH(CH 3 ) 2,       -NHCH 2CH 2N(CH 3) 2,    -NHCH 2CH 2OH,
20               NHcyclopropyl, -NHCOCH 3 , morpholinyl, pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3-ol;
             C) five-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing two, three, or four
                 nitrogen members unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each
                 independently selected from the group consisting of halo, -C1. 3 alkyl, -CI 3haloalkyl,
                 -C(R ) 2 OH, -N(Rb) 2 , -NO 2 , -CN, -CH 2 CN, -OC1.3alkyl, -CH 2 0CH3, -CH 2CH 2 OH,
25               CH 2NH 2 ,     -CH 2CONH 2,    -CO 2 C1. 3 alkyl,   -CO 2 H, -CONH 2 , -NHCOCH 3,   and
                 cyclopropyl; and
             D) five or six-membered ring selected from: 1,2-dihydro-pyridin-2-one, thiazole or 1,2
                 oxazole unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each independently
                 selected from the group consisting of -CH 3 , and -NH2 ;
                                                          17

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    R3 is phenyl or pyridine, substituted with one or two members each independently selected from
             the group consisting of: -halo, -C1. 3 alkyl, -OCI 3 alkyl, -Ocyclopropyl, -0-oxetane,    -C1
             3haloalkyl,   -OCI- 3haloalkyl, -CN, -CH 2OH, -SO 2 CH3 , or -N(CH3)2;
    R4  is a member selected from the group consisting of -C1. 3 alkyl and -C1. 3haloalkyl; and
  5 each R is independently selected from -H or -CH3;
    ii) wherein when Z is N, then;
    R1 is -H;
    Y is -CH 2 -;
 .0 R2 is a member selected from the group consisting of:
             A) phenyl substituted with one or two Rd members, where each Rd is independently
                  selected from the group consisting of: -CN, -CONH 2 , and -CO 2 C1. 3 alkyl;
             B) six-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen
                  members unsubstituted or substituted with a member selected from the group
 .5               consisting    of:     -CN,  -OCI. 3 alkyl,  -CONH 2 ,   -NHCH 2CH 2OH,     -N(R) 2 ,  and
                  -NH-cyclopropyl;
             C) five-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing two or three nitrogen
                  members unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each independently
                  selected from the group consisting of -CI 3 alkyl, -C1. 3 haloalkyl, -CH 2ORb, -N(R) 2,
  0               NO 2 , -CO 2 CH 3 , -CO 2N(R) 2 , or cyclopropyl; and
             D) 1,2-oxazole optionally substituted with one or two R members;
         R3  phenyl substituted with one or two members each independently selected from the group
                  consisting of: -Cl, -OC1. 3alkyl, or -OCI- 3haloalkyl;
    R4 is  -C1. 3alkyl; and
25  each R is independently selected from -H or -CH 3.
             In certain embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), Z is CH.
             In certain embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), Z is N.
              Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where Z is CH, and R1 -H,
    -CH3, or -CF 3.
30           In some of these embodiments, R1 is -H.
             In certain embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), Y is -CH 2 -, -CH(F)-, -CH(OH)
              , -C(OH)(CH 3)-, or -CH(CH 3)-, and Z is CH.
             In some of these embodiments, Y is -CH 2- and Z is N.
                                                           18

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
              In certain embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), R2 is                    RC; and RC is halo,
    -CN,      -CO 2 H, -(CH 2)0-1 CONH 2 , -SO2 CH 3 , -C(Rb) 2 OH, -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CO 2 C1. 6 allyl,
                                                             /    CO2CH 2 CH3         CONH 2
    NHCONH 2 , -NHCONH-oxetane, -CONH-oxetane,                            or
              In some of these embodiments, R2 is                  RC;  and RC is -F, -(CH 2)0-1CONH 2,
  5 CH 2NH 2 , -C(CH 3) 2 0H, -SO 2 CH 3 , or -NHCONH 2.
              In certain embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), Z is N and R2 is 4-cyanophenyl,
    4-phenylamide or 4-phenylcarboxylic acid methyl ester.
               Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R2 is pyridine,
    unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each independently selected from: -F, -C1 .
 .0 6 alkyl,   -CI. 3haloalkyl, -OCI 6 alkyl, -OCH 2 cyclopropyl, -CN, -N(R) 2 , -CH 2NH 2 , -CO 2 H,
    CON(R) 2 , or -C(Rb) 2OH.
              In some of these embodiments, R2 is            N    Rd;  and Rd is -CI 6 alkyl, -CF 3 , -CN,
    N(R   )2,   -CO 2H, -CON(R )2, -OCI 3 alkyl, -CH 2NH 2, -C(Rb) 2 OH, -OCH 2 cyclopropyl, or
    OCH(CH 3) 2.
 .5           In some of these embodiments, R2 is         N    Rd; and Rd is -CH 3, -CF 3, -NH 2 , -NHCH3 ,
    N(CH 3 ) 2 , -CONH 2 , -CONHCH 3, -CON(CH 3) 2,          -OC1.3alkyl, -CH 2OH, -C(CH 3) 2 0H, or
    OCH 2 cyclopropyl.
              In some of these embodiments, Z is N, and R2 is          N    Rdl; Rd'  is -CN or -CONH 2.
               Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I), whereR2 is selected from
20  the group consisting of pyrazine, pyridazine and pyrimidine; where pyrazine is optionally
    unsubstituted       or substituted with -CI 3 alkyl,    -OC1.3alkyl,   -N(Rb) 2 , or -NHCH2 CH 2OH;
    pyridazine is optionally unsubstituted or substituted with -CI 3alkyl; and pyrimidine is optionally
    substituted with a group consisting of: -H, halo, -C1. 3 alkyl, -CN, -OH, -OC1. 3 alkyl, -OC1.
    3haloalkyl,     -CO 2 H, -CON(Rb) 2 , -C(Rb)2 CONH 2 , -C(Rb) 2 OH, -C(Rb) 2 CN, -CH 2 CH 2N(CH 3 ) 2 ,
25  OCH 2 C(Rb)2 0H, -OCH 2CONH 2, -N(Rb) 2 , -NHCH 2CF 3 , -NHCH(CH 3) 2 , -NHCH 2CH 2OH,
    NHcyclopropyl, -NHCOCH 3 , morpholinyl, pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3-ol.
                                                       19

       WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
                                                                  (Rof t
             In some of these embodiments, R2 is         N               , unsubstituted or substituted with
    one or two Re members, where each Re is independently -H, -Cl, -CI 3 alkyl, -CN, -OCH 3, -OC1.
    3haloalkyl,   -CO 2 H, -CONH 2, -C(Rb) 2 CONH 2 , -C(Rb) 2 OH, -C(Rb) 2CN, -CH 2 CH 2N(CH 3 ) 2 ,
    OCH 2 C(Rb)2 0H, -OCH 2CONH 2 , -N(R) 2 , -NHCH 2CF 3 , -NHCH(CH 3)2, -NHCH 2CH 2OH,
  5 NHcyclopropyl, -NHCOCH3 , morpholinyl, pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3-ol.
                                                                                    N
             In some of these embodiments, Z is N, and R2 is                     N    Rel, unsubstituted or
    substituted with R*l, where Rel is -CN, -OCH 3 , -CONH 2 , -NH 2, -NHCH 3 , -NHCH 2CH 2OH, or
    NHcyclopropyl.
             In some of these embodiments, R2 is         N     Re,  and Re is -H, halo, -CH 3 , -CN, -OH,
 .0 OCH 3 , -OCHF2 , -NH 2, -NHCH 3, -N(CH 3)2 , -NHCH 2CF 3 , -NHcyclopropyl, -C(CH 3) 2 0H,
    CONH 2 , -CONHCH 3, or -CON(CH 3)2.
             Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R2 is imidazole,
    pyrazole, triazole, and tetrazole, unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each
    independently selected from the group consisting of: -Cl, -CH 3 , -CHF 2, -CF 3, -CH 2OH,
 .5 CH 2CN, -CH 2CONH 2, -CH 2CH 2OH, -NH 2 , -NO 2 , -CN, -CO 2 CI- 3 alkyl, -CO 2 H, -CONH 2 , or
    NHCOCH 3.
                                                    !N-   N\
             In some of these embodiments, R2 is             Rf, and R' is -H, -Cl, -CH 3, -NO 2 , -NH 2 ,
    NHCOCH 3, -CH 2OH, -CN, -CONH 2, -CO 2 H, or -CO 2 CH 2 CH 3 .
                                                     N'N
             In some of these embodiments, R2 is         Rf,   and Rf is -H, -NH 2 , or -CH 2OH.
                                                                 N
20           In some of these embodiments, R2 is                 R, where R9 is -H, -CH 3, -CH 2OH,
    CONH 2 , or -NH 2.
             Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R2 is 1H-tetrazole,
    2H-tetrazole, 1,2-oxazole, 1,3-thiazole, each independently unsubstituted or substituted with
    CH 3 , -CH 2OH, -CH 2CH 2 OH or -NH 2.
25           Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R2 is 1,2,3-triazole
    and 1,2,4-triazole, each independently unsubstituted or substituted with -CH 3, -CH 2F, -CHF 2,
                                                    20

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    CF 3 , -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -CN, -CH 2CN, -CH 2CONH 2, -C(Rb)OH, -CH 20CH3 , N(R) 2 , -NO 2 ,
    CO 2 CH 3 , -CONH 2, cyclopropyl or -CH 2NH 2.
             In some of these embodiments, R 2 is            N,       and Rh is -H, -CH 3, -CF 3, -CH 2F,
    CHF 2 , -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -CH 2OH, -C(CH 3)2OH, -CH 20CH3 , -NO 2 , -NH 2 , -NHCH 3,
  5 N(CH 3 ) 2 , -CN, -CH 2CN, -CH 2 CONH 2 , -CONH 2 , -CO 2 CH 3 , or -cyclopropyl.
                                                            N'N
                                                                N
             In some of these embodiments, R2 is           R     N , and R is -H, -CH 3, -CF 3 , -OCH 3 ,
    CH 2(OH), -C(CH 3) 2OH, -CH 20CH3 , -CO 2 CH 3 , or -NO 2 .
                                                          N
                                                             N
             In some of these embodiments, R 2 is            Rk,  and Rk is -H, -CH 3 , -CF 3 , -CH 2 F, -CHF 2,
    -OCH 3, -OCH 2CH 3 , -CH 2 OH, -C(CH 3) 2OH, -CH 20CH3, -NO 2 , -NH 2 , -NHCH 3, -N(CH 3) 2, -CN,
 .0 -CONH 2 , -CO 2 CH 3 , or -cyclopropyl.
                                                                                                      -      R"
             Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R3 is
    and Rm is -Cl, -F, -CH 3, -CHF 2, -CN, -OCH 3, -CH 2OH, -OCH 2CH 3, -OCF3 , -OCHF 2, -N(CH 3 ) 2 ,
    -SO 2 CH 3 , -OCH(CH 3) 2 , \YICO       or
             In some of these embodiments, R3 is a member selected from the group consisting of: 3
 .5 chlorophenyl, 3-cyanophenyl, 3-fluorophenyl, 3-methylphenyl, 3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl, 3
    methoxyphenyl, 3-ethoxyphenyl, 3-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl, 3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl,                      3
    (difluoromethyl)phenyl,       3-(dimethylamino)phenyl,         4-fluorophenyl,      4-chlorophenyl,        5
    chloropyridin-3-yl,    3,4-difluorophenyl,    3,5-difluorophenyl, (3-fluoro-5-methoxyphenyl,               3
    chloro-4-fluorophenyl, 4-chloro-3-fluorophenyl, 3,4-dichlorophenyl, 4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl,
20  4-fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl or 3-ethoxy-4-fluorophenyl.
                                                                                                       -     R"
             Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R3 is                            N
    and R" is H, -Cl, -CH 3 , -CF 3, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -OCHF 2, -OCF 3 , or -CN.
             Some embodiments are given by compounds of Formula (I) where R4 is -CH 3,
    CH 2CH 3 , -CH(CH 3) 2 , or -CHF 2 .
25           Further embodiments are provided by pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of
    Formula (I),      pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs          of compounds of Formula (I), and
    pharmaceutically active metabolites of compounds of Formula (I).
                                                      21

   WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
      In certain embodiments, a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, of
Formula (I), is selected from the group consisting of:
       Ex #                                      Compound Name
          1           5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2
                      yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
          2           2-Chloro-5- {[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
                      yl]methyl}pyrimidine;
          3            {2-[(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
                      2-yl)amino]ethyl} dimethylamine;
          4           2-Methoxy-3-(6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol1-I
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
          5           2-Methoxy-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1H-i1,2,4-triazol- 1
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
          6           2-Methoxy-3-(5-methylpyridin-3-yl)-5-(1H-i1,2,4-triazol -1
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
          7           2-Methoxy-3-(2-methylpyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-i1,2,4-triazol1-I
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
          8            {3-[2-Methoxy-5-(1H-i1,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridin-3
                      yl]phenyl} methanol;
          9           3-(3-Methanesulfonylphenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol1-I
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
         10           2-Methoxy-3-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-i1,2,4-triazol1-I
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
         1I2-Methoxy-3-(6-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol1-I
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
         12           2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                      ylmethyl)pyridine;
         13           5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2
                      yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
         14            [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanol;
         15            1-[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]- 1-(4
                      fluorophenyl)ethan- 1-ol;
         16            [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](5-fluoropyridin-2
                      yl)methanol;
         17            {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4
                      fluorophenyl)methyl} (methyl)amine;
                                                22

WO 2014/158998                                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     Ex #                                                       Compound Name
            18[5                   -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4
            18                 fluorophenyl)methanamine;
            19                    [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4
            19                 fluorophenyl)methyl} dimethylamine;
            203-(3                     -Chlorophenyl)-5 -[fluoro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl] -2
            20                 methoxypyridine;
       21                      4- {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} benzo ic acid;
                               5-{ [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
            22                 carbonitrile;
                               5- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
            23                 carboxylic acid;
       24                      5- {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
                               carboxamide;
                               5- [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidin-2
                               5{
            25                 amine;
       26                      (4-   {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3   -yl] methyl} phenyl)urea;
       27                      4- {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} benzamide;
            283                   -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 -(1 H-pyrazol-4
            28                 ylmethyl)pyridine;
                               5- { [6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5 -(3 -methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3
            29                 yflmethyllpyrimidin-2-amine;
            305-
            30
                                    { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyridin-2
                               amine;
            311-(4-
            31
                                          {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} phenyl)-3
                               (oxetan-3-yl)urea;
            323-(3                     -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5     -[(6-methoxypyridin-3
            32                 yl)methyl]pyridine;
            335-                    {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
   ____________yl]methyllpyridin-2-amine;
                               5-{ [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -N,N
   ___________dimethylpyridin-2-amine;
            355-                    {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
   _____________yl]methyllpyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
                               5- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1,3
            36                 thiazol-2-amine;
                                                               23

WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     37        (2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)methanol;
     38        5- { [5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     39        5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
               carbonitrile;
     40        5- { [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     41        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     42        5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(propan-2-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     43        5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     44        N-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               yl)acetamide;
     45        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(4
               methanesulfonylphenyl)methyl]pyridine;
     46        5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(2-methoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     47        5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl} methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     48        2-[5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl} methyl)pyrimidin-2-yl]propan-2-ol;
     49        3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 - { [6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridine;
     50        3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 - { [6-(propan-2
               yloxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     51        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-propoxypyridin-3
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                                                                     1,2
     52        5- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1 -methyl-
               dihydropyridin-2-one;
     53        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     54        5- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxylic acid;
     55        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(2-methoxypyrimidin-5
               yl)methyl]pyrazine;
                                           24

WO 2014/158998                                                    PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                  Compound Name
     56        5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N
               methylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     57        5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N
               cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     58        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4
               yl)methyl]pyrazine;
     59        (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine;
     60        4- .[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2
               amine;
     61        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(2,6-dimethylpyridin-4-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyridine;
     62        4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2
               carbonitrile;
     63        4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2
               carboxamide;
     64        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-3-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     65        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,3-thiazol-5-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     66        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(dimethyl-1,3-thiazol-5-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyridine;
     67        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(6-methoxy-5-methylpyridin-3
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     68        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,3-thiazol-5
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     69        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(dimethyl-1,3-thiazol-5
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     70        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridine-3-carboxamide;
     71        (5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridin-3-yl)methanamine;
     72        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-methylpyridin-3
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     73        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-5
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     74        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,3-thiazol-2
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
                                         25

WO 2014/158998                                                   PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     75        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
               methylpyrimidine;
     76        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
               methoxypyrimidine;
     77        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(propan-2
               yl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     78        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine;
     79        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     80        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-pyrazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     81        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               methylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     82        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     83        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N,N
               dimethylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     84        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(2,2,2
               trifluoroethyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     85        Methyl 4-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2
               yl]methyl}benzoate;
     86        4-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}benzonitrile;
     87        5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     88        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine;
     89        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     90        5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyridine-2
               carboxamide;
     91        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine;
     92        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
               methoxypyrimidine;
     93        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               methylpyrimidin-2-amine;
                                          26

WO 2014/158998                                                      PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     94        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               (2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     95        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-4-ylmethyl)pyrazine;
     96        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     97        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,2-oxazol-4
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     98        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(dimethyl-1,2-oxazol-4-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyrazine;
     99        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(dimethyl-1,2-oxazol-4
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     100       Methyl 2-(4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate;
     101       Ethyl 1-(4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)cyclopropane-1-carboxylate;
     102       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-{[6-(cyclopropylmethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}
               2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine;
     103       5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2
               yl} methyl)pyridine-2-carbonitrile;
     104       5 -({6- [3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -5-ethoxypyrazin-2
               yl} methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     105       5- [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     106       5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2
               yl} methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     107       5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2
               yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
     108       5- { [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5 -ethoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
               carbonitrile;
     109       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(pyridin-2
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     110       2- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrazine;
               6- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridazin-3-amine;
                                                                             l-1
     112       3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-6-methyl-5 -(1 H-i1,2,4-triazo
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
                                           27

WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                     Compound Name
     113       4- {[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} benzamide;
        1145-      {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
        114    yl]methyllpyridine-2-carboxamide;
        1155-      {[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5 -(3 -methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3
        115    yl] methyllpyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
        165-       {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyridine-2
        116    carboxamide;
        1175-      {[5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
        117    yl] methyllpyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
        185-       {[5 -(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
        118    carboxamide;
        195      -( {5 -[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -6-ethoxypyridin-3
        119    yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
        105      -( {5 -[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl] -6-methoxypyridin-3
        120    yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
     121       5-( {5 -[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
     122       5-( {5 -[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl] -6-ethoxypyridin-3
               yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
        123    5 - { [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
        123    carboxamide;
     124       5 -({6- [3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -5-ethoxypyrazin-2
               yl} methyl)pyridine-2-carboxamide;
        1255-(       {6- [3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -5-methoxypyrazin-2
        125    yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
     126       5 - [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5 -ethoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
               carboxamide;
        17Methyl 1-{[6-(3 -chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} -1H
        127    1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate;
        183      -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-5 -[(3 -cyclopropyl- 1H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)methyl] -2
        128    (difluoromethoxy)pyidine;
     129       3-(3 -Fluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -(1H-i ,2,4-triazo 1-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;
        103      -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -(1H-i ,2,4-triazo1-1
        130    ylmethyl)pyrazine;
        113      -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 -(1H-i ,2,4-triazo1-1
        131    ylmethyl)pyridine;
                                            28

WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     132       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
               yl)methyl]pyrazine;
     133       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(3-cyclopropyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyrazine;
     134       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     135       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(propan-2-yloxy)-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     136       3-[2-Methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridin-3-yl]benzonitrile;
     137       2-Methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)-3-[3
               (trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridine;
     138       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-4H-1,2,4-triazol-4
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     139       3-(3,5-Difluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     140       Methyl 1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-iH
               1,2,4-triazole-5-carboxylate;
     141       Methyl 1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-iH
               1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate;
     142       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     143       3-[3-(Difluoromethyl)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     144       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(iH-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     145       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-iH-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     146       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(3-cyclopropyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyridine;
     147       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol
               1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                                                                         l1-
     148       3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 - { [4-(trifluoromethyl)- IH-imidazo
               yl]methyl}pyridine;
                                                                                     l1-
     149       3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 - [ I -(1 H-i1,2,4-triazo
               yl)ethyl]pyridine;
                                                                                  l1-
     150       3 -(3 -Fluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -[(3-methyl-i H-i1,2,4-triazo
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                           29

WO 2014/158998                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     151       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     152       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     153       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(4-methyl-1H-imidazol1-
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     154       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
     155       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazole-3-carbonitrile;
     156       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[3-(methoxymethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     157       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     158       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     159       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     160       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     161       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
                                                                                  H
     162       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
                                                                                  H
     163       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     164       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[3-(methoxymethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     165       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     166       5-[(4-Chloro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]-3-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]
               2-methoxypyridine;
     167       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
               carboxamide;
     168       Ethyl 1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazole-4-carboxylate;
     169       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
               carbonitrile;
                                           30

WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     170       2-Methoxy-3-(pyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     171       N-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazol-4-yl)acetamide;
     172       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2-methoxypyridine;
     173       2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     174       2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-methoxyphenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
               ylmethyl)pyridine;
     175       2-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)-3-[3
               (trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridine;
     176       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1,2
               dihydropyridin-2-one;
     177       5-[(4-Chloro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2
               methoxypyridine;
     178       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-methyl-iH-pyrazol1-
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     179       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-nitro-1H-pyrazol-1
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     180       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-nitro-1H-pyrazol-1
               yl)methyl]pyrazine;
     181       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)pyrazine;
     182       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2-methoxypyrazine;
     183       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-methyl-iH-pyrazol1-
               yl)methyl]pyrazine;
     184       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol
               S
               1-yl)methyl]pyrazine;
     185       5-[(3-Cyclopropyl- 1H-i1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)methyl]-3-[3
               (difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -2-ethoxypyrazine;
                                                                                      1H
     186       3- [3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -2-ethoxy-5 - { [3 -(trifluoromethyl)-
               1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl]methyl}pyrazine;
                                                                                      1H
     187       3- [3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -2-ethoxy-5 - { [5 -(trifluoromethyl)-
               1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl]methyl}pyrazine;
                                                                                      1H
     188       3- [3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -2-ethoxy-5 - { [3 -(methoxymethyl)-
               1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl]methyl}pyrazine;
                                           31

WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     189       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine;
     190       Methyl 1-((6-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2
               yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate;
     191       Methyl 1-((6-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2
               yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-5-carboxylate;
                                                                                       l-1
     192       3 -(3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5 -((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo
               yl)methyl)pyrazine;
                                                                                         1
     193       3-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-((5-nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-
               yl)methyl)pyrazine;
     194       Methyl 1-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazole-5-carboxylate;
     195       Methyl 1-({6-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2
               yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate;
     196       Methyl 1-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazole-3-carboxylate;
     197       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               imidazole-4-carboxamide;
     198       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     199       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     200       [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     201       [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     202       (1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               3-yl)methanol;
     203       (1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     204       [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     205       [1 -({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     206       (1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin
               3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     207       [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
                                          32

WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                     Compound Name
     208       [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-5-yl]methanol;
     209       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-5-yl)methanol;
     210       [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     211       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     212       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     213       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-methoxy-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
     214       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(5-methoxy-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
     215       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-ethoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
     216       1-({5 - [3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl} methyl)
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
               S
     217       1- { [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} -1 H- 1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
     218       1- { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1 H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     219       1- { [5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} -1 H- 1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
     220       1- { [6-Methoxy-5 -(3 -methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl] methyl} -1 H- 1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
     221       1- { [6-Methoxy-5 -(3 -methylphenyl)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1 H- 1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
     222       3- {5 - [(3-Amino-i H-i1,2,4-triazo l-i -yl)methyl] -2-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}benzonitrile;
     223       1- { [5-(3-Ethoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} -1 H- 1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
                                                                                     H
     224       1- { [5 -(3-Cyclopropoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1
               1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
                                                                                       1H
     225       1-({5 - [3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -6-ethoxypyridin-3 -yl} methyl)-
               1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     226       1- { [6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5 -(3 -methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl}
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
                                            33

WO 2014/158998                                                   PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                  Compound Name
     227       1-{[5-(5-Chloropyridin-3-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-amine;
     228       1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     229       1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     230       1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     231       1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-pyrazol-3-amine;
     232       1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-pyrazol-5-amine;
     233       4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazol-3-amine;
     234       4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazol-5-amine;
     235       1- .[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-4
               amine;
     236       1-((6-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     237       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     238       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N,N
               dimethyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
     239       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanamine;
     240       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazole-3-carboxamide;
     241       4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(oxetan-3
               yl)benzamide;
     242       5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
               methylpyridine-2-carboxamide;
     243       1-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)cyclopropane-1-carboxamide;
     244       2-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)acetamide;
     245       2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)propan-2-ol;
                                         34

WO 2014/158998                                                    PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     246       2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-5-yl)propan-2-ol;
     247       2-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}phenyl)propan-2-ol;
     248       2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2
               yl)propan-2-ol;
     249       2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyridin-2-yl)propan-2-ol;
     250       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               1-yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine;
     251       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[4-(fluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,3-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     252       2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-ethoxyphenyl)-5- {[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     253       3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine;
     254       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5- {[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine;
     255       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
               yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyrazine;
     256       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine;
     257       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl]methyl}-2-ethoxypyridine;
     258       3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-1-yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine;
     259       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
     260       [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]methanol;
     261       (1-((6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H
               1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)methanol;
     262       [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]methanol;
     263       (1- {[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3
               triazol-4-yl)methanol;
     264       [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)
               1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]methanol;
                                          35

WO 2014/158998                                                    PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     265       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3
               triazol-4-yl)methanol;
     266       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[4-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,3
               triazol-1-yl]methyl}-2-ethoxypyridine;
     267       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
               carboxylic acid;
     268       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
               carboxamide;
     269       [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-pyrazol-4-yl]methanol;
     270       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               imidazol-5-yl)methanol;
               (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
     271       imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     272       [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-pyrazol-3-yl]methanol;
     273       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-4
               yl)methanol;
     274       (4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazol-3-yl)methanol;
     275       (4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     276       4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}benzoic acid;
     277       (1-((6-Ethoxy-5-(2-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               3-yl)methanol;
     278       5-((5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     279       5-((5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3
               yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
     280       2-(4-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl)methyl)phenyl)acetamide;
     281       2-(5-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               yl)acetamide;
     282       5-{[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
     283       2-[(5- {[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               yl)amino]ethan-1-ol;
                                          36

WO 2014/158998                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     284       2-(5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
               yl)-2-methylpropanenitrile;
     285       2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}
               1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)acetonitrile;
     286       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(5-ethoxypyridin-2-yl)methyl]-2
               methoxypyridine;
               5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2
     287       ame;
     288       5-((5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-amine;
     289       2-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-5
               ethoxypyrazine;
     290       2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2
               yl)amino) ethanol;
     291       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((5-methyl-1H-tetrazol-1
               yl)methylpyridine;
     292       4-(5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)pyrimidin-2
               yl)morpholine;
               5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
     293       ame;
     294       2-((5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)pyrimidin
               2-yl)amino)ethanol;
     295       2-(1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-tetrazol
               5-yl)ethanol;
     296       2-Ethoxy-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-((5-methyl-iH-tetrazol-1
               yl)methyl)pyridine;
     297       2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-((4-(difluoromethyl)-2-methyl-iH-imidazol1-
               yl)methyl)-2-methoxy-3,4'-bipyridine;
     298       2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
               yl)oxy)acetamide;
     299       (5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
               yl)methanol;
     300       (1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)
               iH-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     301       5-((2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3
               fluoropyridin-2-amine;
     302       5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-ol;
                                          37

WO 2014/158998                                                    PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                  Compound Name
     303       2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
               yl)oxy)ethanol;
     304       5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2
               (difluoromethoxy)pyrimidine;
     305       5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-3
               methylpyridazine;
     306       3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-fluoropyridin-3
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     307       1-{[5-(2-Cyanopyridin-4-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               pyrazole-3-carboxamide;
     308       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
               carboxamide;
     309       1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide;
     310       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
               carboxamide;
     311       1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide;
     312       1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
               carboxamide;
     313       1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
               carboxamide;
     314       1-{[6-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H
               imidazole-4-carboxamide;
     315       [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl]methanol;
     316       [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}methyl)-5-methyl-iH-pyrazol-3-yl]methanol;
     317       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH
               pyrazol-3-amine;
     318       1-[(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
               2-yl)oxy]-2-methylpropan-2-ol;
                                                                                  H
     319       (1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl} -2-methyl-i
               imidazol-5-yl)methanol;
                                                                                  H
     320       (1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl} -3-methyl-i
               pyrazol-5-yl)methanol;
                                                                                 -2
     321       (1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}
               methyl-i H-imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
                                         38

WO 2014/158998                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                   Compound Name
     322       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
               imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     323       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH
               pyrazol-3-yl)methanol;
               (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
     324       imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     325       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH
               pyrazol-3-yl)methanol;
               (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
     326       imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     327       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     328       (1-{[5-(4-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-iH-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     329       (1-{[5-(5-Chloropyridin-3-yl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-iH-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     330       (1-{[5-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-iH-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     331       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     332       [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     333       [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[3-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     334       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     335       [1-({5-[3-(Dimethylamino)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     336       (1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     337       (1-{[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     338       (1- {[5-(3,5-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
     339       [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)
               IH-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol;
     340       (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
               triazol-3-yl)methanol;
                                          39

WO 2014/158998                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     341       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               3-yl)methanol;
     342       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol
               3-yl)methanol;
     343       (1-{[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
               methyl-iH-imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
               (1-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
               imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     345       (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl
               iH-imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     346       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
               imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
     347       4- {5-[(2-Aminopyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}pyridine-2-carbonitrile;
     348       2-(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetonitrile;
     349       5- {[5-(2-Ethoxypyridin-4-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
               2-amine;
     350       5- { [6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     351       5- { [5-(4-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     352       5- {[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl)pyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     353       5- { [5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               amine;
     354       5- {[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     355       5- {[5-(3-Ethoxy-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     356       3- {5-[(2-Aminopyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridin-3
               yl}benzonitrile;
     357       5- {[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methylphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
     358       2-(5- {[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetonitrile;
     359       5- {[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
                                           40

WO 2014/158998                                                                      PCT/US2014/021426
      Ex #                                                   Compound Name
            360              5- { [5 -(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidin-2
            360              arme;
            3615-               {[5 -(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            361              yl]methyllpyrimidin-2-amine;
       362                   5- { [5 -(3 ,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidin-2
                             arme;
            3632-(4- {[5-(3 ,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            363              yl]methyllphenyl)acetamide;
            3642-(4- {[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            364              yl]methyllphenyl)acetamide;
            3652-(4- {[5-(4-Chloro-3 -fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            365              yl]methyllphenyl)acetamide;
            3662-(5 - {[5-(4-Chloro-3 -fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            366              yl]methyllpyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
            372-(5                 - {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidin-2
            367              yl)-2-methylpropanamide;
            3682-(5 - {[5-(3 ,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
            368              yl]methyllpyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
            392-(5                 - {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidin-2
            369              yl)acetamide;
            3702-(5 - {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3
            370              yl]methyllpyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
       371                   2-(5 - {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3
                             yl]methyllpyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
            322-(                1- {[5-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl}
            372               1H-i ,2,4-triazo 1-3 -yl)acetamide;
            335-                {[5 -(3 ,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine
                             2-carboxamide;
            345-                {[5 -(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
                             carboxamide;
                             2(5- { [5 -(3 ,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
                             2-5
   ____________yl]               methyl pyrimidin-2-yl) amino] ethan- 1-ol;
            36(5-
            376
                                 { [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrazin-2
                             yl)methanol;
            3772-               { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3   -yl] methyl} -5
   ____________methylpyrazine;
            386-
            378
                                { [5 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyridine-3
                             carbonitrile;
                                                            41

WO 2014/158998                                                      PCT/US2014/021426
    Ex #                                    Compound Name
     379       5-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               yl]methyl}pyrazin-2-amine;
     380       3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     381       (2-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4
               tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     382       (1-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4
               tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     383       (2-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H
               1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     384       (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     385       (2-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H
               1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     386       (1-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H
               1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     387       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4
               tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     388       (2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4
               tetrazol-5-yl)methanol;
     389       1-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               yl)pyrrolidin-3-ol;
     390       1-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
               yl)azetidin-3-ol;
     391       2-[(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
               2-yl)amino]ethan-1-ol;
     392       2-Ethoxy-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-[(5-methyl-2H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     393       3-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-2H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     394       3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-2H- 1,2,3,4
               tetrazol-2-yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                                                                     1
     395       3-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl- 1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-
               yl)methyl]pyridine;
     396       3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-i H- 1,2,3,4
               tetrazol- 1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
     397       3 -(4-Chloro-3 -fluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5 -[(5-methyl-i H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol
               1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                           42

       WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
             Ex #                                         Compound Name
              398        3-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol
                         S 1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
              399        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl] -2-ethoxy-5- [(5-methyl-i H- 1,2,3,4
                         tetrazol- 1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                                                                                    1
              400        2-Ethoxy-3 -(2-ethoxypyridin-4-yl)-5 -[(5-methyl-i H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol-
                         yl)methyl]pyridine;
                                                                                              1
              401        2-Ethoxy-3-(3-ethoxyphenyl)-5-[(5-methyl- 1H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol-
                         yl)methyl]pyridine;
              402        2-Ethoxy-3-(3-fluoro-5-methoxyphenyl)-5-[(5-methyl- 1H- 1,2,3,4
                         tetrazol- 1-yl)methyl]pyridine;
              403        3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-5 - { [4-(difluoromethyl)-2-methyl- 1H-imidazo l-1
                         yl]methyl} -2-ethoxypyrazine;
              404        (5- { [6-(2,2-Difluoroethoxy)-5 -(2-ethoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3
                         yl]methyl} -3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)methanol;
              405        [5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3
                         yl} methyl)-3 -fluoropyridin-2-yl] methanol;
              406        (1- { [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -2
                         methyl-i H-imidazol-4-yl)methanol;
                                                                                                     H
              407        1- { [5 -(4-Fluoro-3 -methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} -1
                         1,2,4-triazol-3-amine;
         Intermediate    Ethyl 2-(4-{[5-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               49        yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate;
         Intermediate    Ethyl 2-(4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
               50        yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate; and
                                       Isotopically-Labeled Compounds
            The invention also includes isotopically-labeled compounds, which are identical to those
 5 recited in Formula I, but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an
   atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in
   nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include
   isotopes of carbon, chlorine, fluorine, hydrogen, iodine, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorous, sulfur,
   and technetium, including 11C,       13C, 1C, 36Cl, 1F, 2H, 3H, 123 1,25 13N, 1N,  o,  o,    o, 3P, 32P,
   35        99
10    S, and    mTc.
            Compounds of the present invention (and derivatives of such compounds, such as
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs) that contain the aforementioned isotopes or
                                                         43

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of the invention.              Isotopically-labeled
    compounds of the present invention are useful in drug and substrate tissue distribution and target
    occupancy assays.         For example, isotopically labeled compounds are particularly useful in
    SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) and in PET (positron emission
  5 tomography), as discussed further herein.
                                                   Derivatives
              The present invention also provides derivatives of a chemical entity of Formula (I),
    which      include, but are not limited to,         any salt,   solvate, conformer,     or crystalline
    form/polymorph.
 .0                                                   Salts
              Accordingly, in one embodiment the invention includes pharmaceutically acceptable
    salts of the compounds represented by Formula (I), and methods using such salts.
              Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include sulfates, pyrosulfates, bisulfates,
    sulfites,      bisulfites,    phosphates,     monohydrogen-phosphates,         dihydrogenphosphates,
 .5 metaphosphates,         pyrophosphates,   chlorides, bromides, iodides, acetates, borate, nitrate,
    propionates, decanoates, caprylates, acrylates, formates, isobutyrates, caproates, heptanoates,
    propiolates, oxalates, malonates, succinates, suberates, sebacates, fumarates, maleates, butyne
    1,4-dioates,        hexyne-1,6-dioates,       benzoates,      chlorobenzoates,       methylbenzoates,
    dinitrobenzoates,          hydroxybenzoates,      methoxybenzoates,       phthalates,       sulfonates,
  o xylenesulfonates,      phenylacetates, phenylpropionates, phenylbutyrates, citrates, lactates, y
    hydroxybutyrates, glycolates, tartrates, methane-sulfonates, propanesulfonates, naphthalene-1
    sulfonates, naphthalene-2-sulfonates, besylate, mesylate and mandelates.
              When the       compound    of Formula     (I)  contains   a basic   nitrogen,   the desired
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art, for
25  example, treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid, such as hydrochloric acid,
    hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, sulfamic acid, nitric acid, boric acid, phosphoric acid, and the
    like, or with an organic acid, such as acetic acid, phenylacetic acid, propionic acid, stearic acid,
    lactic acid, ascorbic acid, maleic acid, hydroxymaleic acid, isethionic acid, succinic acid, valeric
    acid, fumaric acid, malonic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, glycolic acid, salicylic acid, oleic
30  acid, palmitic acid, lauric acid, a pyranosidyl acid, such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid,
    an alpha-hydroxy acid, such as mandelic acid, citric acid, or tartaric acid, an amino acid, such as
    aspartic acid, glutaric acid or glutamic acid, an aromatic acid, such as benzoic acid, 2
    acetoxybenzoic acid, naphthoic acid, or cinnamic acid, a sulfonic acid, such as laurylsulfonic
    acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, any compatible mixture
35  of acids such as those given as examples herein, and any other acid and mixture thereof that are
                                                       44

         WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     regarded as equivalents or acceptable substitutes in light of the ordinary level of skill in this
     technology.
              When the compound of Formula (I) is an acid, such as a carboxylic acid or sulfonic acid,
     the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method, for
  5  example, treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base, such as an amine
     (primary, secondary or tertiary), an alkali metal hydroxide, alkaline earth metal hydroxide, any
     compatible mixture of bases such as those given as examples herein, and any other base and
     mixture thereof that are regarded as equivalents or acceptable substitutes in light of the ordinary
     level of skill in this technology.   Illustrative examples of suitable salts include organic salts
 .0  derived from amino acids, such as N-methyl-O-glucamine, lysine, choline, glycine and arginine,
     ammonia, carbonates, bicarbonates, primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, and cyclic amines,
     such as tromethamine, benzylamines, pyrrolidines, piperidine, morpholine, and piperazine, and
     inorganic salts derived from sodium, calcium, potassium, magnesium, manganese, iron, copper,
     zinc, aluminum, and lithium.
 .5                                                 Solvates
              In other embodiments, the invention provides a solvate of a compound of Formula (I),
     and the use of such solvates in methods of present invention. Certain compounds of Formula (I)
     or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I) may be obtained as solvates.
     In some embodiments, the solvent is water and the solvates are hydrates.
  10          More particularly, solvates include those formed from the interaction or complexes of
     compounds of the invention with one or more solvents, either in solution or as a solid or
     crystalline form. Such solvent molecules are those commonly used in the pharmaceutical art,
     which are known to be innocuous to the recipient, e.g., water, ethanol, ethylene glycol, and the
     like. Other solvents may be used as intermediate solvates in the preparation of more desirable
25   solvates, such as MeOH, methyl t-butyl ether, ethyl acetate, methyl acetate, (S)-propylene
     glycol, (R)-propylene glycol, 1,4-butyne-diol, and the like. Hydrates include compounds formed
     by an incorporation of one or more water molecules.
                              Conformers and Crystalline Forms/Polymorphs
              In other embodiments, the invention provides conformer and crystalline form of a
30   compound of Formula (I), and the use of these derivatives in methods of present invention. A
     conformer is a structure that is a conformational isomer.      Conformational isomerism is the
     phenomenon of molecules with the same structural formula but different conformations
     (conformers) of atoms about a rotating bond.
              A polymorph is a composition having the same chemical formula, but a different solid
35   state or crystal structure. In certain embodiments of the invention, compounds of Formula (I)
                                                       45

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
    were obtained in crystalline form.      In addition, certain crystalline forms of compounds of
    Formula (I) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I) may be obtained
    as co-crystals. In still other embodiments, compounds of Formula (I) may be obtained in one of
    several polymorphic forms, as a mixture of crystalline forms, as a polymorphic form, or as an
  5 amorphous form.
                                                 Prodrugs
            The invention also relates to prodrugs of the compounds of Formula (I), and the use of
    such pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs in methods of the present invention, particularly
    therapeutic methods. Exemplary prodrugs include compounds having an amino acid residue, or
 .0 a polypeptide chain of two or more (e.g., two, three or four) amino acid residues, covalently
    joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino, hydroxy, or carboxylic acid group of a
    compound of Formula (I).        Examples of amino acid residues include the twenty naturally
    occurring amino acids, commonly designated by three letter symbols, as well as 4
    hydroxyproline, hydroxylysine,       demosine, isodemosine, 3-methylhistidine, norvalin, beta
 .5 alanine, gamma-aminobutyric         acid, citrulline homocysteine, homoserine, ornithine and
    methionine sulfone.
            Additional types of prodrugs may be produced, for instance, by derivatizing free
    carboxyl groups of structures of Formula (I) as amides or alkyl esters. Examples of amides
    include those derived from ammonia, primary C1 6 alkyl amines and secondary di(CI 6 alkyl)
  o amines.    Secondary amines include 5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl or heteroaryl ring
    moieties. Examples of amides include those that are derived from ammonia, C1. 3alkyl primary
    amines, and di(Ci 2 alkyl)amines.     Examples of esters of the invention include C1. 6 alkyl, C1 .
    6cycloalkyl, phenyl, and phenyl(CI.6alkyl) esters.       Preferred esters include methyl esters.
    Prodrugs may also be prepared by derivatizing free hydroxy groups using groups including
25  hemisuccinates,            phosphate          esters,         dimethylaminoacetates,           and
    phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyls, following procedures such as those outlined in Fleisher et
    al., Adv. Drug Delivery Rev. 1996, 19, 115-130.
            Carbamate derivatives of hydroxy and amino groups may also yield prodrugs. Carbonate
    derivatives, sulfonate esters, and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups may also provide prodrugs.
30  Derivatization of hydroxy groups as (acyloxy)methyl and (acyloxy)ethyl ethers, wherein the
    acyl group may be an alkyl ester, optionally substituted with one or more ether, amine, or
    carboxylic acid functionalities, or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described
    above, is also useful to yield prodrugs. Prodrugs of this type may be prepared as described in
    Robinson et al., J. Med. Chem. 1996, 39, 10-18. Free amines can also be derivatized as amides,
                                                     46

       WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    sulfonamides or phosphonamides.         All of these prodrug moieties may incorporate groups
    including ether, amine, and carboxylic acid functionalities.
            Prodrugs may be determined using routine techniques known or available in the art (e.g.,
    Bundgard (ed.), 1985, Design of prodrugs, Elsevier; Krogsgaard-Larsen et al., (eds.), 1991,
  5 Design and Application of Prodrugs, Harwood Academic Publishers).
                                                Metabolites
            The present invention also relates to a metabolite of a compound of Formula (I), as
    defined herein, and salts thereof.     The present invention further relates to the use of such
    metabolites, and salts thereof, in methods of present invention, including therapeutic methods.
 .0         Metabolites of a compound may be determined using routine techniques known or
    available in the art. For example, isolated metabolites can be enzymatically and synthetically
    produced (e.g., Bertolini et al., J. Med. Chem. 1997, 40, 2011-2016; Shan et al., J. Pharm. Sci.
    1997, 86, 765-767; Bagshawe, Drug Dev. Res. 1995, 34, 220-230; and Bodor, Adv Drug Res.
    1984, 13, 224-231).
 .5                                         COMPOSITIONS
            In some embodiments Compounds of Formula (I) and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
    thereof are used, alone or in combination with one or more additional active ingredients, to
    formulate pharmaceutical compositions.        A pharmaceutical composition of the invention
    comprises: (a) an effective amount of at least one active agent in accordance with the invention;
  0 and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                    Formulations and Administration
            Numerous standard references are available that describe procedures for preparing
    various formulations suitable for administering the compounds according to the invention.
    Examples of potential formulations and preparations are contained, for example, in the
25  Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients, American Pharmaceutical Association (current
    edition); Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms: Tablets (Lieberman, Lachman and Schwartz, editors)
    current edition, published by Marcel Dekker, Inc., as well as Remington's Pharmaceutical
    Sciences (Osol, ed.),1980, 1553-1593.
            Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing an animal,
30  especially a human, with an effective dosage of a compound of the present invention.           For
    example, oral, rectal, topical, parenteral, ocular, pulmonary, nasal, and the like may be
    employed. Dosage forms include tablets, troches, dispersions, suspensions, solutions, capsules,
    creams, ointments, aerosols, and the like.
            Suitable carriers, diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and
35  include materials such as carbohydrates, waxes, water soluble and/or swellable polymers,
                                                     47

       WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials, gelatin, oils, solvents, water, and the like. The particular
    carrier, diluent, or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the
    compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on
    solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe (GRAS) to be administered to an animal.
  5 In general, safe solvents are non-toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non-toxic
    solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water, ethanol,
    propylene glycol, polyethylene glycols (e.g., PEG400, PEG300), etc. and mixtures thereof. The
    formulations may also include one or more buffers, stabilizing agents, surfactants, wetting
    agents, lubricating agents, emulsifiers, suspending agents, preservatives, antioxidants, opaquing
 .0 agents, glidants, processing aids, colorants, sweeteners, perfuming agents, flavoring agents and
    other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug (i.e., a compound of the
    present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof) or aid in the manufacturing of the
    pharmaceutical product (i.e., medicament).
             The   formulations  may be prepared using         conventional    dissolution and mixing
 .5 procedures. For example, the bulk drug substance (i.e., a compound of the present invention or
    stabilized form of the compound (e.g., complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known
    complexation agent)) is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the
    excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into
    pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable and appropriate dosage of the
  0 drug.
             The pharmaceutical composition (or formulation) for application may be packaged in a
    variety of ways, depending upon the method used to administer the drug. Generally, an article
    for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in
    an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well-known to those skilled in the art and include
25  materials such as bottles (plastic and glass), sachets, ampoules, plastic bags, metal cylinders, and
    the like. The container may also include a tamper-proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access
    to the contents of the package.     In addition, the container has deposited thereon a label that
    describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.
             The present compounds may be systemically administered, e.g., orally, in combination
30  with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible
    carrier. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules, may be compressed into
    tablets, or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient's diet. For oral therapeutic
    administration, the active compound may be combined with one or more excipients and used in
    the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups,
35  wafers, and the like. Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1% of active
                                                      48

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may, of course, be varied and
     may conveniently be between about 2 to about 60% of the weight of a given unit dosage form.
     The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an
     effective dosage level will be obtained.
  5          The tablets, troches, pills, capsules, and the like may also contain the following: binders
     such as gum tragacanth, acacia, corn starch or gelatin; excipients such as dicalcium phosphate; a
     disintegrating agent such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid and the like; a lubricant such
     as magnesium stearate; and a sweetening agent such as sucrose, fructose, lactose or aspartame or
     a flavoring agent such as peppermint, oil of wintergreen, or cherry flavoring may be added.
 .0  When the unit dosage form is a capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the above
     type, a liquid carrier, such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials
     may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage
     form. For instance, tablets, pills, or capsules may be coated with gelatin, wax, shellac or sugar
     and the like.    A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound, sucrose or fructose as a
 .5  sweetening agent, methyl and propylparabens as preservatives, a dye and flavoring such as
     cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should
     be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non-toxic in the amounts employed.                In
     addition, the active compound may be incorporated into sustained-release preparations and
     devices.
  10         The active compound may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by
     infusion or injection. Solutions of the active compound or its salts can be prepared in water,
     optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid
     polyethylene glycols, triacetin, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of
     storage and use, these preparations         contain a preservative to prevent the growth of
25   microorganisms.
             The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile
     aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the active ingredient which are
     adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or
     dispersions, optionally encapsulated in liposomes. In all cases, the ultimate dosage form should
30   be sterile, fluid, and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier
     or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising, for example, water, ethanol,
     a polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, liquid polyethylene glycols, and the like),
     vegetable oils, nontoxic glyceryl esters, and suitable mixtures thereof The proper fluidity can
     be maintained, for example, by the formation of liposomes, by the maintenance of the required
35   particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action
                                                       49

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for
    example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases,
    it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, buffers or sodium chloride.
    Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the
  5 compositions of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
             Sterile injectable solutions are typically prepared by incorporating the active compound
    in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with a variety of the other ingredients
    enumerated above, as required, followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for
    the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, common methods of preparation are vacuum
 .0 drying and the freeze drying techniques, which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any
    additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile-filtered solutions.
             For topical administration, the present compounds may be applied in pure form, i.e.,
    when they are liquids. However, it will generally be desirable to administer them to the skin as
    compositions or formulations, in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier, which
 .5 may be a solid or a liquid.
             Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc, clay, microcrystalline
    cellulose, silica, alumina, and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water, alcohols or glycols
    or water-alcohol/glycol blends, in which the present compounds can be dissolved or dispersed at
    effective levels, optionally with the aid of non-toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances
  0 and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The
    resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads, used to impregnate bandages
    and other dressings, or sprayed onto the affected area using pump-type or aerosol sprayers.
             Thickeners such as synthetic polymers, fatty acids, fatty acid salts and esters, fatty
    alcohols, modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid
25  carriers to form spreadable pastes, gels, ointments, soaps, and the like, for application directly to
    the skin of the user.
                                                   Dosages
             Useful dosages of the compounds of Formula (I) can be determined by comparing their
    in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective
30  dosages in mice, and other animals, to humans are known to the art. Useful dosages of the
    compounds of formula I can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity, and in vivo
    activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice, and other
    animals, to humans are known to the art (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,938,949). Useful dosages of PDE4
    inhibitors are known to the art (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 7,829,713; U.S. Pat. No. 8,338,405).
                                                       50

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
             Optimal dosages to be administered in the therapeutic methods of the present invention
     may be determined by those skilled in the art and will depend on multiple factors, including the
     particular composition in use, the strength of the preparation, the mode and time of
     administration, and the advancement of the disease or condition. Additional factors may include
  5  characteristics on the subject being treated, such as age, weight, gender, and diet.
             In general, however, a suitable dose will be in the range from about 0.01 to about 100
     mg/kg, more specifically, from about 0.1 to about 100 mg/kg, such as 10 to about 75 mg/kg of
     body weight per day, 3 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day, 0.5 to
     90 mg/kg/day, or 1 to 60 mg/kg/day (or any other value or range of values therein).              The
 .0  compound is conveniently administered in a unit dosage form; for example, containing about 1
     to 1000 mg, particularly about 10 to 750 mg, and more particularly, about 50 to 500 mg of active
     ingredient per unit dosage form.
             Preferably, the active ingredient should be administered to achieve peak plasma
     concentrations of the active compound of from about 0.5 to about 75 p[M, preferably, about 1 to
 .5  50 pM, and more preferably, about 2 to about 30 M. This may be achieved, for example, by
     the intravenous injection of a 0.05 to 5% solution of the active ingredient, optionally in saline, or
     orally administered as a bolus containing about 1 to 100 mg of the active ingredient. Desirable
     blood levels may be maintained by continuous infusion to provide about 0.01 to 5.0 mg/kg/hr or
     by intermittent infusions containing about 0.4 to 15 mg/kg of the active ingredient(s).
  10         The desired dose may conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided doses
     administered at appropriate intervals, for example, as two, three, four or more sub-doses per day.
     The sub-dose itself may be further divided, e.g., into a number of temporally-distinct
     administrations used according to the compositions and methods of the present invention.
             Effective amounts or doses of the active agents of the present invention may be
25   ascertained by routine methods such as modeling, dose escalation studies or clinical trials, and
     by taking into consideration routine factors, e.g., the mode or route of administration or drug
     delivery, the pharmacokinetics of the agent, the severity and course of the disease, disorder, or
     condition, the subject's previous or ongoing therapy, the subject's health status and response to
     drugs, and the judgment of the treating physician. Such compositions and preparations should
30   contain at least 0.1% of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations
     may, of course, be varied and may conveniently be between 2 to about 60% of the weight of a
     given unit dosage form.       The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful
     composition is such that an effective dosage level will be obtained. An exemplary dose is in the
     range from about 0.001 to about 200 mg of active agent per kg of subject's body weight per day,
35   preferably about 0.05 to 100 mg/kg/day, or about 1 to 35 mg/kg/day, or about 0.1 to 10
                                                      51

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    mg/kg/daily in single or divided dosage units (e.g., BID, TID, QID). For a 70-kg human, an
    illustrative range for a suitable dosage amount is from 1 to 200 mg/day, or about 5 to 50 mg/day.
                                             Methods and Uses
                                 Uses of Isotopically-Labeled Compounds
  5          In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of using isotopically labeled
    compounds and prodrugs of the present invention in: (i) metabolic studies (preferably with    1C),
    reaction kinetic studies (with, for example 2 H or 3H); (ii) detection or imaging techniques [such
    as positron emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission computed tomography
    (SPECT)] including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays; or (iii) in radioactive treatment
 .0 of patients.
             Isotopically labeled compounds and prodrugs of the invention thereof can generally be
    prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and
    preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for
    a non-isotopically labeled reagent.       An 18F or "C labeled compound may be particularly
 .5 preferred for PET, and an I123 labeled compound may be particularly preferred for SPECT
                                                                                       2
    studies.    Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium (i.e.,      H) may afford
    certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example increased
    in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements.
                                            Therapeutic Methods
                                                  Generally
             In certain embodiments the present invention provides therapeutic methods of using a
    compound of Formula (I) and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, pharmaceutically acceptable
    prodrugs,     and pharmaceutically     active  metabolites,  whether   alone  or in combination
    (collectively, "active agents") of the present invention are useful as inhibiting PDE4 in the
25  methods of the invention. Such methods for inhibiting PDE4 comprising administering to an
    animal an effective amount of at least one chemical entity selected from compounds of Formula
    (I), pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I), pharmaceutically acceptable
    prodrugs of compounds of Formula (I), and pharmaceutically active metabolites of compounds
    of Formula (I). Embodiments of this invention inhibit PDE4. The invention further includes the
30  use of such compounds and compositions therof in the methods described herein. In one aspect
    of such methods disclosed herein, the animal is healthy. In another aspect of such methods, the
    animal has a disorder. In another aspect of all such methods the animal is an aged animal. In
    preferred embodiments the animal in such methods is a human.
             In one aspect, such chemical entites are useful as inhibitors of PDE4 enzymes.
35  Accordingly, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting PDE4, comprising
                                                      52

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    administering to an animal an effective amount of a chemical entity of Formula (I) or
    composition therof
             Chemical entities of the present invention may be administered as a mono-therapy or as
    part of a combination therapy. In one aspect, one or more of the compounds (or salts, produgs,
  5 or metabolites thereof) of the present invention may be co-administered or used in combination
    with one or more additional therapies known in the art.
             Compounds of the present invention may also be used as adjunct therapy, for example,
    with other PDE inhibitors.
             The present invention also includes methods of treating a disease, disorder, or condition
 .0 mediated by PDE4.       Accordingly, in one embodiment, the invention provides a method of
    treating a disorder mediated by PDE4 in particular, comprising administering to an animal in
    need of such treatment an effective amount of a chemical entity of Formula (I) or composition of
    the present invention.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention includes the use of a chemical entity of
 .5 Formula (I) in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease, condition, or disorder by
    inhibiting PDE4 The present invention further provides a method of administering a
    therapeutically effective amount of a medicament of the present invention to a patient in need of
    such treatment to treat the disorder.
            In one aspect, the compounds of the present invention are useful in enhancing neuronal
  o plasticity - an essential property of the brain that can be augmented in healthy animals and can
    be impaired in numerous CNS disorders. For example, by inhibiting PDE4, a compound of the
    present invention can increase levels of cAMP, modulating cyclic nucleotide signaling cascades.
            More particularly, the ability of extracellular signals to modulate the intracellular
    concentration of cyclic nucleotides allows cells to respond to external stimuli across the
25  boundary of the cell membrane. The cyclic nucleotide signaling cascades have been adapted to
    respond to a host of transduction systems including G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and
    voltage and ligand gated ion channels.       Cyclic nucleotides transmit their signal in the cell
    through a variant of tertiary elements. The best described of these are cAMP dependent protein
    kinase (PKA) and cGMP dependent protein kinase (PKG). The binding of the cyclic nucleotide
30  to each enzyme enables the phosphorylation of downstream enzymes and proteins functioning as
    effectors or additional elements in the signaling cascade. Of particular importance to memory
    formation is cAMP-dependent activation of PKA, which phosphorylates CREB. pCREB is an
    activated transcription factor, which binds to specific DNA loci and initiates transcription of
    multiple genes involved in neuronal plasticity (e.g.,Tully et al., Nat. Rev. Drug. Discov. 2003, 2,
35  267-277; and Alberini, Physiol. Rev. 2009, 89, 121-145).
                                                     53

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
            Consistent with these observations, both in vitro and in vivo studies have associated
    alterations in cyclic nucleotide concentrations with biochemical and physiological process
    linked to cognitive function (Kelly and Brandon, Progress in Brain Research, 2009, 179, 67-73;
    Schmidt, Current Topics in Medicinal Chemistry, 2010, 10, 222-230).             Moreover, signal
  5 intensity and the levels of coincident activity at a synapse are established variables that can
    result in potentiation of transmission at a particular synapse. Long term potentiation (LTP) is
    the best described of these processes and is known to be modulated by both the cAMP and
    cGMP signaling cascades.
            Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of enhancing neuronal plasticity,
 .0 comprising administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of a chemical entity
    or composition of the present invention.
            In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating a disease
    mediated by PDE4, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective
    amount of a compound or composition of the present invention. PDE4-related indications that
 .5 can be treated by compounds and compositions of the present invention include, but are not
    limited to neurological disorders, inflammatory disorder, renal disorder, and other disorders
    involving PDE4.
             Chemical entities and compositions of the present invention are also useful as
    neuroprotective agents, as described in greater detail herein. Accordingly, the present invention
  o provides a method of neuroprotection, comprising administering to an animal in need thereof an
    effective amount of at least one chemical entity or composition of the present invention.
            Chemical entities and compositions of the present invention are also useful as agents in
    neurorehabilitation and neurorecovery, as described in greater detail herein. Accordingly, the
    present invention provides a method of neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery, comprising
25  administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of at least one chemical entity or
    composition of the present invention.
             In addition, such compounds can be administered in conjunction with training protocols
    to treat cognitive or motor deficits associated with CNS disorders, as described in more detail
    herein. In addition, such compounds can be used to enhance the efficiency of training protocols
30  in non-human animals, in particular healthy non-human animals, as described herein.
                                         Neurological Disorders
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating a neurological
    disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of
    a compound or composition described herein.
                                                     54

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
            A neurological disorder (or condition or disease) is any disorder of the body's nervous
    system. Neurological disorders can be categorized according to the primary location affected,
    the primary type of dysfunction involved, or the primary type of cause. The broadest division is
    between central nervous system (CNS) disorders and peripheral nervous system (PNS)
  5 disorders.
            Neurological disorders include structural, biochemical, or electrical abnormalities in the
    brain, spinal cord or other nerves, abnormalities that can result in a range of symptoms.
    Examples of such symptoms include paralysis, muscle weakness, poor coordination, loss of
    sensation, seizures, confusion, pain, altered levels of consciousness, and cognitive deficits,
 .0 including memory impairments.         There are many recognized neurological disorders, some
    relatively common, but many rare. They may be assessed by neurological examination, and
    studied and treated within the specialties of neurology and clinical neuropsychology.
            Neurological disorders and their sequelae (direct consequences) affect as many as one
    billion people worldwide, as estimated by the World Health Organization in 2006. Interventions
 .5 for neurological disorders may include, in addition to medications, preventative measures,
    lifestyle changes, physiotherapy or other therapies, neurorehabilitation, pain management, and
    surgery.
            Neurological disorders include, but are not limited to the following (which are not
    necessarily mutually exclusive): psychiatric disorders, such as mood disorders, psychotic
  0 disorders, and anxiety disorders; personality disorders; substance-related disorders; dissociative
    disorders; eating disorders; sleep disorders; developmental disorders; neurodegenerative
    disorders, including movement disorders; trauma-related disorders; pain disorders; and cognitive
    disorders, a category that includes memory disorders such as AAMI and MCI, as well as
    cognitive deficits (particularly memory deficits) associated with CNS disorders.
25                                         Psychiatric Disorders
             In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a psychiatric disorder,
    comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. Psychiatric disorders include mood
    (or affective) disorders, psychotic disorders, and anxiety (or neurotic) disorders.
30                                            Mood Disorders
             In some embodiments, the psychiatric disorder is a mood (or affective) disorder.
    Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of treating a mood disorder, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein.        In a specific aspect, the mood disorder is a
                                                     55

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     depressive disorder, including a dysthymic disorder, major depressive disorder (recurrent and
     single episode), mania, bipolar disorders (I and II), and cyclothymic disorder. Long-standing
     research underscores a role for PDE4 in mood disorders, including depressive disorders, bipolar
     disorders, and substance induced mood disorders is known in the literature.
  5          A specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a substance induced
     mood disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment a
     therapeutically effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described
     herein. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of substance induced mood disorders is
     known in the literature.
 .0                                          Psychotic Disorders
             In some embodiments, the psychiatric disorder is a psychotic disorder. Accordingly, the
     present invention provides a method of treating a psychotic disorder, comprising an animal in
     need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition
     described herein. In a specific aspect, the psychotic disorder is one or more of the following:
 .5  schizophrenia; schizophreniform disorder; schizoaffective disorder; delusional disorder; brief
     psychotic disorder; shared psychotic disorder; substance-induced psychotic disorders, such as a
     psychosis induced by alcohol, amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine, hallucinogens, inhalants,
     opioids, or phencyclidine; and personality disorders at times of stress (including paranoid
     personality disorder, schizoid personality disorder, and borderline personality disorder).
  10         A specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a delusional disorder,
     comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective
     amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4
     inhibitors in the treatment of delusional disorders is known in the literature.
             A particular embodiment of the invention is a method of treating schizophrenia,
25   comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective
     amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4
     inhibitors in the treatment of schizophrenia, including schizophreniform disorder and
     schizoaffective disorder, is known in the literature.
                                              Anxiety Disorders
30           In some embodiments, the psychiatric disorder is an anxiety (or neurotic) disorder.
     Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of treating an anxiety disorder,
     comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
     compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.           More particularly, the anxiety
     disorder is one or more of the following:         panic disorder, specific phobia, social phobia,
35   obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder; and
                                                      56

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
    acute stress disorder. The use of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of anxiety is known in the
    literature.
                                          Personality Disorders
             In some embodiments, the neurological disorder is a personality disorder. Accordingly,
  5 the present invention provides a method of treating a personality disorder, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein.         In particular embodiments, the personality
    disorder is one or more of the following: includes those of Cluster A (odd or eccentric), such as
    paranoid or schizoid personality disorder; those of Cluster B (dramatic, emotional, or erratic),
 .0 such as antisocial, borderline, or narcissistic personality disorder; and those of Cluster C
    (anxious or fearful), such as avoidant, dependent, or obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.
                                       Substance Related Disorders
             In some embodiments, the neurological disorder is a substance-related disorder.
    Accordingly, a specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a substance-related
 .5 disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount
    of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
             More particularly, the substance-related disorder includes one or more of the following:
    an alcohol-related disorder, such as abuse, dependence, and withdrawal; an amphetamine (or
    amphetamine-related) disorder, such as abuse, dependence and withdrawal, a cocaine-related
  0 disorder, such as abuse, dependence and withdrawal; a hallucinogen-related disorder, such as
    abuse, dependence and withdrawal; an inhalant-related disorder, such as dependent and
    withdrawal; a nicotine-related disorder, such as dependence and withdrawal; an opioid-related
    disorder, such as abuse, dependence and withdrawal; a phencyclidine (or phencyclidine-like)
    related disorder, such as abuse and dependence; and a sedative-, hypnotic-, or anxiolytic-related
25  disorder, such as abuse, dependence, and withdrawal.
             In a specific embodiment, the compounds and compositions of the present invention are
    useful as an aid to a treatment of smoking cessation.         Accordingly, the present invention
    provides a method of treating smoking addiction, comprising administering to an animal in need
    thereof an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention.
30                                        Dissociative Disorders
             In some embodiments, the neurological disorder is a dissociative disorder. Accordingly,
    a specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a dissociative disorder,
    comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. More particularly, the dissociative
                                                     57

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    disorder includes one or more of the following:           depersonalization disorder, dissociative
    amnesia, and dissociative identity disorder.
                                             Eating Disorders
            In some embodiments, the neurological disorder is an eating disorder. Accordingly, a
  5 specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating an eating disorder, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein. More particularly, the eating disorder is anorexia
    nervosa or bulimia nervosa. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of eating disorders is
    known in the literature.
 .0                                           Sleep Disorders
            In some embodiments, the neurological disorder is a sleep disorder. Accordingly, a
    specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a sleep disorder, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein. More particularly, the sleep disorder includes a
 .5 primary sleep disorder, such as primary hypersomnia, primary insomnia, and narcolepsy; a
    parasomnia, such as a nightmare or sleep terror disorder; and other sleep disorders. The utility
    of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of sleep disorders is known in the literature.
            In other embodiments, the sleep disorder is restless leg syndrome.           Restless legs
    syndrome (RLS) is a disorder of the part of the nervous system that affects the legs and causes
  o an urge to move them. People with restless legs syndrome have uncomfortable sensations in
    their legs (and sometimes arms or other parts of the body) and an irresistible urge to move their
    legs to relieve the sensations. The sensations are usually worse at rest, especially when lying or
    sitting. The sensations can lead to sleep deprivation and stress. Because it usually interferes
    with sleep, it also is considered a sleep disorder. Accordingly, the present invention provides a
25  method of treating restless leg syndrome, comprising administering to an animal in need thereof
    an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention.
                                         Developmental Disorders
            In some embodiments,         the neurological disorder is a developmental disorder.
    Accordingly, a specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a developmental
30  disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount
    of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            More particularly, the developmental disorder is one or more of the following: mental
    retardation, including mild, moderate, and severe forms; a learning disorder, such as that
                                                     58

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    affecting reading, mathematics, or written expression; a motor skill disorder, such as
    developmental coordination disorder; a communication disorder; a pervasive developmental
    disorder, such as an autistic disorder, Rhett's disorder, childhood disintegrative disorder, and
    Asperger's disorder; an attention-deficit or disruptive disorder, such as attention-deficit
  5 hyperactivity disorder; and a tic disorder, such as Tourette's disorder, chronic motor disorder, or
    vocal tic disorder.
            A specific embodiment of the invention is a method of treating an autistic disorder,
    comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.             In another embodiment, the
 .0 invention provides a method of treating an attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in
    the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder is known in the literature.
                                       Neurodegenerative Disorders
 .5         In particular    embodiments,    the invention      provides   a method       of treating a
    oneurodegenerative disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment
    an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            In one aspect, neurodegenerative disorders include Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic
    lateral sclerosis, corticobasal degeneration, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, and a disorder
  0 associated with repetitive head injury.
                                           Alzheimer's Disease
            In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating Alzheimer's
    disease, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of
    a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. A detailed set of criteria for the
25  diagnosis of Alzheimer's is set forth in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
    Disorders (Fourth Edition, text revision (2000), also known as the DSM-IV-TR). First, multiple
    cognitive deficits must be present, one of which must be memory impairment. Second, one or
    more of the following must be present: aphasia (deterioration of language abilities); apraxia
    (difficulty executing motor activities - even though movement, senses, and the ability to
30  understand what is being asked are still intact); or agnosia (impaired ability to recognize or
    identify objects - even though sensory abilities are intact).
                                      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
                                                     59

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
            In another specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating amyotrophic
    lateral sclerosis, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective
    amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), often referred to as "Lou Gehrig's Disease," is a
  5 progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells. Motor neurons reach from the
    brain to the spinal cord and from the spinal cord to the muscles throughout the body. As motor
    neurons degenerate, they can no longer send impulses to the muscle fibers that normally result in
    muscle movement.
            Early symptoms of ALS often include increasing muscle weakness, especially involving
 .0 the arms and legs, speech, swallowing or breathing. The progressive degeneration of the motor
    neurons in ALS eventually leads to their death. When the motor neurons die, the ability of the
    brain to initiate and control muscle movement is lost.              With voluntary muscle action
    progressively affected, patients in the later stages of the disease may become totally paralyzed.
                                           Movement Disorders
 .5         In other embodiments, the invention provides a method of treating a movement disorder,
    comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.             In one aspect, the movement
    disorder includes one or more of the following: Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, an
    essential tremor, a Lewy body disease, hypokinetic disease, Multiple Sclerosis, various types of
  o Peripheral Neuropathy, dystonia, a basal ganglia disorder, hypokinesia (including akinesia), and
    dyskinesia.    In addition, Tourette's syndrome and other tic disorders can be included as
    categories of movement disorders. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of movement
    disorders is known in the literature.
            In related embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating chorea, comprising
25  administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein. Chorea can occur in a variety of conditions and
    disorders, and is a primary feature of Huntington's disease, a progressive neurological disorder.
                                           Huntington's Disease
            In a specific embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating
30  Huntington's disease, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an
    effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            Huntington's Disease (HD, or Huntington chorea) is a disorder passed down through
    families in which nerve cells in certain parts of the brain waste away, or degenerate. It is caused
    by a genetic defect on chromosome 4, causing a CAG repeat, to occur many more times than
                                                      60

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
     normal. The CAG element is normally repeated 10 to 28 times, but in persons with Huntington's
     disease, is repeated 36 to 120 times.
             There are two forms of Huntington's disease: adult-onset Huntington's disease - which
     is the most common form and usually begins in the mid 30s and 40s; and early-onset
  5  Huntington's disease, which accounts for a small number of cases and begins in childhood or
     adolescence.
             Symptoms of Huntington's disease include behavioral changes, abnormal and unusual
     movements, and worsening dementia. Behavioral changes may include behavioral disturbances,
     hallucinations,   irritability, moodiness, restlessness or fidgeting, paranoia, and psychosis.
 .0  Abnormal and unusual movements include facial movements, such as grimaces; head turning to
     shift eye position; quick, sudden, sometimes wild jerking movements of the arms, legs, face, and
     other body parts; slow, uncontrolled movements; and unsteady gait.           Worsening dementia
     includes; disorientation or confusion; loss of judgment; loss of memory; personality changes;
     and speech changes (e.g., Dumas et al., FrontBiosci (Schol Ed) 2013, 5, 1-18). The utility of
 .5  PDE4 inhibitors in treating Huntington's disease is known in the art.
                                             Parkinson's Disease
             In a specific embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating
     Parkinson's disease, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an
     effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
  10         In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating myoclonus, Gilles
     de Ia Tourette' s syndrome, dystonia, or tics, comprising administering to an animal in need of
     such treatment an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described
     herein.   The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of myoclonus, Tourette's syndrome,
     dystonia and tics is known in the literature.
25           In a specific aspect, a movement disorder also includes multiple sclerosis, basal ganglia
     disorders, hypokinesia, and dyskinesia.
                                             Lewy Body Diseases
             In one embodiment, the present embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating
     a Lewy Body Disease, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an
30   effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention. Lewy bodies appear
     as spherical masses that displace other cell components.      The two morphological types are
     classical (brain stem) Lewy bodies and cortical Lewy bodies.       A classical Lewy body is an
     eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion consisting of a dense core surrounded by a halo of 10-nm
     wide radiating fibrils, the primary structural component of which is alpha-synuclein. In contrast,
                                                      61

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    a cortical Lewy body is less well defined and lacks the halo. Nonetheless, it is still made up of
    alpha-synuclein fibrils. Cortical Lewy bodies are a distinguishing feature of Dementia with
    Lewy bodies (DLB), but may occasionally be seen in ballooned neurons characteristic of Pick's
    disease and corticobasal degeneration, as well as in patients with other tauopathies.
  5         More particularly, the Lewy Body disorder is selected from the group consisting of
    multiple system atrophy, particularly the Parkinsonian variant; Parkinson disease without or
    with dementia (PDD); dementia with LBs (DLB) alone or in association with Alzheimer disease
    (AD); multiple system atrophy, particularly the Parkinsonian variant, as well as Pick's disease
    and corticobasal degeneration.
 .0                                         Multiple sclerosis
            In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating a motor
    symptom associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), compring administering to animal in need of
    such treatment an effective amount of a compound or composition of the present invention. MS
    is an autoimmune, demyelinating disease that affects the brain and spinal cord of the CNS. It
 .5 affects women more than men and is most commonly diagnosed between ages 20 and 40, but
    can be seen at any age.
            MS is caused by damage to the myelin sheath, the protective covering that surrounds
    nerve cells. When this nerve covering is damaged, nerve signals slow down or stop. Because
    nerves in any part of the brain or spinal cord may be damaged, patients with multiple sclerosis
  0 can have symptoms in many parts of the body. Symptoms vary, because the location and
    severity of each attack can be different. Episodes can last for days, weeks, or months. These
    episodes alternate with periods of reduced or no symptoms (remissions).
            Muscle symptoms associated with MS include loss of balance; muscle spasms;
    numbness, tingling, or abnormal sensation in any area; problems moving arms or legs; problems
25  walking; problems with coordination and making small movements; tremor in one or more arms
    or legs; and weakness in one or more arms or legs.
                                         Basal Ganglia Disorders
            In particular embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating a basal
    ganglia disorder. Basal ganglia disorders refer to a group of physical dysfunctions that occur
30  when the group of nuclei in the brain known as the basal ganglia fail to properly suppress
    unwanted movements or to properly prime upper motor neuron circuits to initiate motor function
    (Leisman and Mello, Rev. Neurosci. 2013, 24, 9-25).
            Increased output of the basal ganglia inhibits thalamocortical projection neurons. Proper
    activation or deactivation of these neurons is an integral component for proper movement. If
35  something causes too much basal ganglia output, then the thalamocortical projection neurons
                                                    62

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    become too inhibited and one cannot initiate voluntary movement. These disorders are known
    as hypokinetic disorders. However, a disorder leading to abnormally low output of the basal
    ganglia leads to relatively no inhibition of the thalamocortical projection neurons. This situation
    leads to an inability to suppress unwanted movements.               These disorders are known as
  5 hyperkinetic disorders (Wichmann and DeLong, Curr. Opin. Neurobiol 1996, 6, 751-758).
                                                 Hypokinesia
            In particular embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating
    hypokinesia. Hypokinesia refers to decreased bodily movements, and they may be associated
    with basal ganglia diseases (such as Parkinson's disease), mental health disorders and prolonged
 .0 inactivity due to illness, amongst other diseases.
            More generally, hypokinesia describes a spectrum of disorders, including: (i) Akinesia,
    which refers to the inability to initiate movement due to difficulty selecting or activating motor
    programs in the central nervous system.              Akinesia is a result of severely diminished
    dopaminergic cell activity in the direct pathway of movement and is common in severe cases of
 .5 Parkinson's disease; (ii) Bradykinesia, which is characterized by slowness of movement and has
    been linked to Parkinson's disease and other disorders of the basal ganglia. Rather than being a
    slowness in initiation (akinesia), bradykinesia describes a slowness in the execution of
    movement. It is one of the 3 key symptoms of parkinsonism, which are bradykinesia, tremor and
    rigidity.   Bradykinesia is also the cause of what is normally referred to as "stone face"
  0 (expressionless face) among those with Parkinson's; (iii) Freezing, which is characterized by an
    inability to move muscles in any desired direction; and (iv) Rigidity, which is characterized by
    an increase in muscle tone causing resistance to externally imposed joint movements; and (v)
    Postural instability, which is the loss of ability to maintain an upright posture.
                                                  Dyskinesia
25          In particular embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating
    dyskinesia. Dyskinesia is a movement disorder which consists of adverse effects including
    diminished voluntary movements and the presence of involuntary movements, similar to tics or
    chorea.
            Dyskinesia can be anything from a slight tremor of the hands to uncontrollable
30  movement of, most commonly, the upper body but can also be seen in the lower extremities.
    Discoordination can also occur internally especially with the respiratory muscles and it often
    goes unrecognized. Dyskinesia is a symptom of several medical disorders, distinguished by the
    underlying cause and generally corresponding to one of three types: acute dyskinesia, chronic
    (or tardive) dyskinesia, and non-motor dyskinesia.
                                                        63

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
            More specifically, a dyskinesia can include one or more the following:        paroxysmal
    dyskinesias, e.g., primary and secondary paroxysmal dyskinesias; paroxysmal kinesigenic
    dyskinesias (PKD); paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesias (PNKD); paroxysmal exercise
    induced (exertion-induced) dyskinesias (PED); and paroxysmal hypnogenic dyskinesias (PHD).
  5                                   Trauma-Related Disorders
            In specific embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating a trauma
    related disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective
    amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention.
            In specific embodiments, trauma-related disorders comprise brain trauma; head trauma
 .0 (closed and penetrating); head injury; tumors, especially cerebral tumors affecting the thalamic
    or temporal lobe head injuries; cerebrovascular disorders (diseases affecting the blood vessels in
    the brain), such as stroke, ischemia, hypoxia, and viral infection (e.g.,            encephalitis);
    excitotoxicity; and seizures.
            Conditions within the scope of the invention that are amenable to neuroprotection
 .5 include:   Stroke; traumatic brain injury (TB); Dementia; Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's
    disease; Huntington's disease; Cerebral palsy; Post-polio syndrome; Guillain-Barre syndrome,
    and Multiple Sclerosis; and other developmental syndromes, genetic conditions, and progressive
    CNS diseases affecting cognitive function, such as autism spectrum disorders, fetal alcohol
    spectrum disorders (FASD), Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, Down syndrome, and other forms of
  0 mental retardation.
                                             Pain Disorders
            In specific embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating pain, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of
25  pain is known in the literature.
            In particular embodiments, the pain disorder includes one or more of the following:
    dental pain, cancer pain, myofascial pain, perioperative pain, acute pain, chronic pain,
    posttraumatic pain, trigeminal neuralgia, migraine severe pain, intractable pain, neuropathic
    pain, post-traumatic pain, cancer pain, non-cancer pain. Pain also encompasses a pain disorder
30  associated with psychological factors, a pain disorder associated with a general medical
    condition, and a pain disorder associated with both psychological factors and a general medical
    condition.
                                          Cognitive Disorders
                                                   64

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
             In particular embodiments of the invention, the neurological disorder is a cognitive
    disorder. Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of treating a cognitive disorder,
    comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the
  5 treatment of cognitive disorders is known in the literature (e.g., U.S. Pat. No. US 7,829,713;
    U.S. Pat. No. US8,338,405).
             Cognitive disorders can significantly impair social and occupational functioning,
    adversely impacting the autonomy and quality of life of the affected individual. An estimated
    four to five million Americans (about 2% of all ages and 15% of those older than 65) have some
 .0 form and degree of cognitive impairment (Abrams et al., Merck Manual of Geriatrics, 1995,
    Whitehouse Station (NJ), Medical Services).
             Cognitive disorders reflect problems in cognition, i.e., the general processes by which
    knowledge is acquired, retained and used. Accordingly, cognitive disorders can encompass
    impairments in such functions as concentration, perception, attention, information processing,
 .5 learning, memory, or language.           Cognitive disorders can also encompass impairments in
    psychomotor learning abilities, which include physical skills, such as movement and
    coordination; fine motor skills such as the use of precision instruments or tools; and gross motor
    skills, such as dance, musical, or athletic performance.
             Cognitive disorders also encompass impairments in executive functions, which include
  o abilities underlying the planning and execution of goal-oriented behaviors.          Such abilities
    include flexibility, i.e., the capacity for quickly switching to the appropriate mental mode;
    anticipation and prediction based on pattern recognition; reasoning and problem-solving;
    decision making; working memory, i.e., the capacity to hold and manipulate internally- or
    externally-derived information in real time; emotional self-regulation, including the ability to
25  recognize and manage one's emotions for good performance; sequencing, such as the ability to
    dissect complex actions into manageable units and prioritize them in the right order; and self
    inhibition, i.e., the ability to withstand distraction and internal urges.
             Cognitive disorders also comprise cognitive impairments (deficits or dysfunctions) that
    are associated with (due to) to CNS disorders. In one aspect, a cognitive impairment can be a
30  direct result of a CNS disorder. For example, impairments in speech and language can directly
    result from a stroke or head-injury that damages the brain regions controlling speech and
    language, as in aphasia.
            In another aspect, a cognitive impairment is associated with a complex CNS disorder,
    condition, or disease. For example, a cognitive impairment can comprise a deficit in executive
35  control that accompanies autism or mental retardation; a deficit in memory associated with
                                                        65

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    schizophrenia or Parkinson's disease; or a cognitive deficit arising from multiple sclerosis. In
    the case of multiple sclerosis (MS), for example, about one-half of MS patients will experience
    problems with cognitive function, such as slowed thinking, decreased concentration, or impaired
    memory. Such problems typically occur later in the course of MS - although in some cases they
  5 can occur much earlier, if not at the onset of disease.
             Cognitive impairments can be due to many, non-exclusive categories of CNS disorders,
    including the following (and as described herein):
    (1)      dementias, such as those associated with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease;
         Huntington's disease, Pick's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob, AIDS Dementia, and other
 .0      neurodegenerative disorders; and cognitive disabilities associated with progressive diseases
         involving the nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis.
    (2)    psychiatric disorders, which include affective (mood) disorders, such as depression and
         bipolar disorders; psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and delusional disorder; and
         neurotic and anxiety disorders, such as phobias, panic disorders, obsessive-compulsive
 .5      disorder, generalized anxiety disorder; eating disorders; and posttraumatic stress disorders.
    (3)     developmental syndromes, genetic conditions, and progressive CNS diseases affecting
         cognitive function, such as autism spectrum disorders; fetal alcohol spectrum disorders
         (FASD);    Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome; Down syndrome, and other forms of mental
         retardation; and multiple sclerosis.
  o (4)   trauma-dependent losses of cognitive functions, i.e., impairments in memory, language, or
         motor skills resulting from brain trauma; head trauma (closed and penetrating); head injury;
         tumors, especially cerebral tumors affecting the thalamic or temporal lobe; cerebrovascular
         disorders (diseases affecting the blood vessels in the brain), such as stroke, ischemia,
         hypoxia, and viral infection (e.g., encephalitis); excitotoxicity; and seizures. Such trauma
25       dependent losses also encompass cognitive impairments resulting from extrinsic agents
         such as alcohol use, long-term drug use, and neurotoxins, e.g., lead, mercury, carbon
         monoxide, and certain insecticides (e.g., Duncan et al., Drug Discover. Ther. 2012, 6, 112
          122).
    (5)    age-associated cognitive deficits, including age-associated memory impairment (AAMI;
30       also referred to herein as age-related memory impairment (AMI)), and deficits affecting
         patients in early stages of cognitive decline, as in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI); and
    (6)    learning, language, or reading disabilities, such as perceptual handicaps, dyslexia, and
         attention deficit disorders.
             Accordingly, the invention provides a method of treating a cognitive impairment
35  associated with a CNS disorder selected from one or more of the group comprising: dementias,
                                                      66

        WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    including    those   associated  with    neurodegenerative   disorders;   psychiatric    disorders;
    developmental syndromes, genetic conditions, and progressive CNS diseases and genetic
    conditions; trauma-dependent losses of cognitive function, age-associated cognitive deficits; and
    learning, language, or reading disorders.
  5                                             Dementias
            In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a cognitive deficit
    associated with dementia, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an
    effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            Dementias are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by learning and cognitive
 .0 deficiencies and are typically accompanied by behavioral symptoms, psychological symptoms
    and motor symptoms. More particularly, dementia symptoms can include difficulty with many
    areas of mental function, including emotional behavior or personality, language, memory,
    perception, and thinking and judgment.
            Dementias include, but are not limited to, the following: dementia due to Alzheimer's
 .5 disease (with early or late onset), dementia due to Parkinson's disease, dementia due to Pick's
    disease, dementia due to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, dementia due to HIV disease, dementia due
    to head trauma; dementia due to a vascular disease ("vascular dementia"), Lewy body dementia,
    fronto-temporal dementia, Pick's disease and corticobasal degeneration.
            In one embodiment, dementia is due to Alzheimer's disease. Accordingly, the present
  o invention provides a method of treating dementia due to Alzheimer's disease, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a
    compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in
    the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is known in the literature. Accordingly, the invention
    provides a method of treating dementia due to Alzheimer's disease, comprising administering to
25  an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a compound or
    pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            In another embodiment, dementia is due to Parkinson's disease.           Accordingly, the
    invention provides a method of treating dementia due to Parkinson's disease, comprising
    administering to an animal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a
30  compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein. Dementia has been reported to occur
    in approximately 20%-60% of individuals with Parkinson's disease and is more likely to be present in
    older individuals or those with more severe or advanced disease. The dementia associated with
    Parkinson's disease is characterized by cognitive and motoric slowing; problems with executive
    functioning, such as planning tasks, organizing projects, or carrying out goals in the proper
                                                    67

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    sequence;    and impairment in memory retrieval. Declining cognitive performance in individuals
    with Parkinson's disease is frequently exacerbated by depression. The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in
    treating Parkinson's disease is known in the literature.
             Dementia has been reported to occur in approximately 20%-60% of individuals with
  5 Parkinson's disease and is more likely to be present in older individuals or those with more severe or
    advanced disease.        The dementia associated with Parkinson's disease is characterized by
    cognitive and motoric slowing, executive dysfunction, and impairment in memory retrieval.
    Declining cognitive performance in individuals with Parkinson's disease is frequently exacerbated
    by depression. For a review, Davie, Br. Med. Bull. 2008, 86, 109-127. The motor symptoms of
 .0 Parkinson's disease result from the death of dopamine-generating cells in the substantia nigra, a
    region of the midbrain; the cause of this cell death is unknown.          Early in the course of the
    disease, the most obvious symptoms are movement-related.                 Four motor symptoms are
    considered cardinal in PD: shaking (tremors), rigidity, slowness of movement, and postural
    instability, i.e., difficulty with walking and gait (e.g., Jankovic, J. Neurol. Neurosurg.Psychiatr.
 .5 2008, 79, 368-376).          Later, cognitive and behavioral problems may arise, with dementia
    commonly occurring in the advanced stages of the disease. Other symptoms include sensory,
    sleep and emotional problems. PD is more common in the elderly, with most cases occurring
    after the age of 50.
            In another aspect, a cognitive impairment is associated with a complex CNS syndrome,
  0 condition, or disease. For example, a cognitive impairment can comprise a deficit in executive
    control that accompanies autism or mental retardation; a deficit in memory associated with
    schizophrenia or Parkinson's disease; or a cognitive deficit arising from multiple sclerosis. In
    the case of multiple sclerosis (MS), for example, about one-half of MS patients will experience
    problems with cognitive function, such as slowed thinking, decreased concentration, or impaired
25  memory. Such problems typically occur later in the course of MS - although in some cases they
    can occur much earlier, if not at the onset of disease.
            In one aspect, a cognitive impairment can be a direct result of a CNS disorder.            For
    example, impairments in speech and language can directly result from a stroke or head-injury
    that damages the brain regions controlling speech and language, as in aphasia.
30                                           Psychiatric Disorders
             In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a cognitive deficit
    associated with a psychiatric disorder, comprising administering to an animal in need of such
    treatment an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
    Psychiatric disorders include affective disorders (mood disorders), such as depression and
35  bipolar disorders; psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and delusional disorder; and
                                                       68

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     neurotic and anxiety disorders, such as phobias, panic disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder,
     generalized anxiety disorder, eating disorders, and posttraumatic stress disorders.
     Developmental Syndromes, Genetic Disorders, and Progressive Diseases
             In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a cognitive deficit
  5  associated with a developmental syndrome, genetic disorder, or progressive disease, comprising
     administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound or
     pharmaceutical composition described herein.         In a specific aspect, the cognitive deficit is
     associated with an autism spectrum disorder; a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD);
     Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome; Down syndrome, and other forms of mental retardation; and
 .0  multiple sclerosis.
                                        Trauma-Related Disorders
             In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a cognitive deficit
     associated with trauma. Such trauma-dependent losses of cognitive function include, but are not
     limited to, those due to cerebrovascular diseases, including stroke and ischemia; brain trauma,
 .5  including subdural hematoma and brain tumor; traumatic brain injury (TBI) and head injury.
              Such trauma-dependent losses also encompass cognitive impairments resulting from
     extrinsic agents such as alcohol use, long-term drug use, and neurotoxins such as lead, mercury,
     carbon monoxide, and certain insecticides.
                                                   Stroke
  o0         In some embodiments, chemical entities and compositions of the present invention are
     useful in treating stroke, and in more specific embodiments, treating motor or cognitive
     impairments during post-stroke rehabilitation. Stroke care is a temporal continuum that includes
     immediate (acute) treatments and subsequent rehabilitative therapy.
             Acute treatments directly target the initial damage, such as that triggered by ischemic or
25   hemorrhagic stroke; they usually involve using agents to dissolve clots and restore blood flow to
     reduce tissue damage and stabilize the patient. The efficacy of acute treatments is typically
     limited to a short time window extending only a few hours from stroke onset.
             Rehabilitation becomes the therapeutic focus after the patient has been medically
     stabilized.   Rehabilitation (also referred to as "stroke rehabilitation" or "post-stroke
30   rehabilitation") is directed to cognitive and motor deficits that persist after the initial stroke
     injury, the goal being to restore and recover neurological function as much as possible to
     compensate for the permanent tissue loss. (e.g., 1995 Clinical Guideline by the Department of
     Health and Human Services on Post-Stroke Rehabilitation.)
                                                      69

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
             Stroke rehabilitation is typically a comprehensive program coordinated by a team of
    medical professionals. A physical therapist on the team, for example, may focus on maintaining
    and restoring range of motion and strength in affected limbs, maximizing mobility in walking,
    improving manual dexterity, and rehabilitating other motor and sensorimotor functions. A
  5 mental health professional may be involved in the treatment of loss of cognitive skills.
    Rehabilitation services can occur in multiple environments, such as a rehabilitation hospital,
    long-term care facility, outpatient clinic, or at home.
             Neurological functions impacted by stroke (and which can be targeted during
    rehabilitation) include impairments in cognitive and motor functions. Cognitive function
 .0 impairments, for example, can manifest as deficits in understanding speech or writing (aphasia);
    knowing the right words but having trouble saying them clearly (dysarthria); as well as deficits
    in other cognitive functions, such as attention, reasoning, planning, execution, and learning and
    memory. Motor function impairments, for example, can manifest as weakness (hemiparesis) or
    paralysis (hemiplegia) on one side of the body that may affect the whole side or just the arm or
 .5 leg; by problems with balance or coordination; deficits in gross motor skills such as gait and
    walking speed; deficits in fine motor skills or manual dexterity; and deficits in upper and lower
    extremity function.
             Accordingly, the present invention provides the use of a PDE4 inhibitor in the treatment
    of stroke, including methods of post stroke rehabilitation. In certain embodiments, chemical
  0 entities of the present invention are useful during stroke rehabilitation to treat stroke deficits (or
    "post-stroke deficits") resulting from impaired neurological functions. In some embodiments,
    the present invention provides methods             of post-stroke rehabilitation comprising:       (a)
    administering to a subject in need thereof a PDE4 inhibitor during recovery of the subject from
    stroke; (b) providing training to the subject under conditions sufficient to improve performance
25  of a neurological function whose impairment is due to said stroke; and (c) repeating steps (a)
    and (b) one or more times, whereby the amount of training sufficient to improve the
    performance is reduced relative to that produced by training alone.
             In one aspect, the PDE4 inhibitor is a chemical entity of the present invention. In some
    embodiments, the deficit is a motor deficit. In other embodiments, the deficit is a cognitive
30  deficit, particularly, a deficit in memory formation, and more specifically, a deficit in long-term
    memory formation. In still other embodiments, the deficit may include a cognitive and motor
    deficit. In another aspect, training comprises a battery of tasks directed to the neurological
    function. In a specific aspect, the reduction in the amount of training is a reduction in the
    number of training sessions.
                                                       70

       WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
            In a further embodiment, one or more training steps are separated by a discrete interval.
    In one aspect, each training step is provided daily. In other aspects, the interval between one or
    more training steps can be less than one day or more than one day e.g., such as once a week,
    twice a week, three times a week, or longer.
  5         In a further embodiment, said administering step (a) is in conjunction with said training
    step (b). In one aspect, the subject is a human. In another aspect, the subject has undergone
    neuronal stem cell manipulation. In other aspects, the compound is administered before and
    during each training session.
                                   Age-Associated Cognitive Deficits
 .0                                               AAMI
            In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating an age-associated
    cognitive deficit. In one aspect, the age-associated cognitive deficit is age-related memory
    impairment (AAMI). Accordingly, the invention provides a method of treating age-associated
    memory impairment (AAMI), comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment
 .5 an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            AAMI is a decline in various cognitive abilities, in particular memory abilities,
    associated with normal aging. For example, AAMI subjects show a decline in the ability to
    encode new memories of events or facts, as well as working memory (Hedden and Gabrieli, Nat.
    Rev. Neurosci. 2004, 5, 87-96). In addition, AAMI subjects, when compared with age-matched
  0 controls, appeared to be impaired in tests of executive functions associated with frontal lobe
    function. These and other studies suggest an important role for frontal lobe dysfunction in the
    memory loss of elderly people. More generally, studies comparing the effects of aging on
    episodic memory, semantic memory, short-term memory and priming find that episodic memory
    is especially impaired in normal aging; but some types of short-term memory can also be
25  impaired (Nilsson, Acta Neurol. Scand. Supply. 2003, 179, 7-13)
            In general, an AAMI diagnosis identifies persons with subjectively and objectively
    evidenced memory loss without cognitive decline impaired enough to warrant the diagnosis of
    dementia. According to criteria established by the NIH working group (Crook et al., Devel.
    Neuropsychol. 1986, 2, 261-276) a diagnosis of AAMI includes the following in a person aged
30  50 or older:
            (i)        the presence of subjective memory decline, e.g., complaints of memory loss
                       reflected in such everyday problems as difficulty remembering names of
                                                    71

       WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
                       individuals   introduced   to   the subject,   misplacing    objects,   difficulty
                       remembering a list of items to be purchased or a list of tasks to be performed;
            (ii)       objective evidence of memory loss (e.g., a score at least one standard
                       deviation below the mean of younger adults in a well standardized memory
  5                    test);
            (iii)      evidence of adequate intellectual function (e.g.., a raw score of at least 32) on
                       the Vocabulary subtest of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale., and
            (iv)       the absence of dementia (or other memory-affecting disease, such as stroke),
                       e.g., based on the Global Deterioration Scale for assessment of dementia,
 .0                    individuals with AAMI have very mild cognitive decline (level 2) (Reisberg et
                       al., Am. J. Psych. 1982, 139,1136-1139).
            Individuals with AAMI have been shown to have a three-fold greater risk for
    development of dementia than individuals who do not meet AAMI criteria (Goldman and
    Morris, Alzheimer Dis. Assoc. Disord.2002, 15:72-79).
 .5                                                 MCI
            In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating mild cognitive
    impairment (MCI), comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective
    amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            MCI may be diagnosed when an individual's memory declines below the level
  0 considered normal for that age group. In other words, MCI is a condition in which people face
    memory problems more often than that of the average person their age. These symptoms,
    however, do not prevent them from carrying out normal activities and are not as severe as the
    symptoms for Alzheimer's disease. Symptoms often include misplacing items, forgetting events
    or appointments, and having trouble thinking of desired words.
25          According to recent research, MCI has been called the transitional state between
    cognitive changes of normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many people who experience
    mild cognitive impairment are at a high risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Indeed, research
    suggests that: about 12% of people aged 65 or older diagnosed with MCI go on to develop
    Alzheimer's disease within a year; and that about 40% develop Alzheimer's within three years.
30  This is a much higher rate than in the general population, wherein only about 1%of people aged
    65 or older develop Alzheimer's each year.
            Thus, people with MCI are considered at heightened risk to develop Alzheimer's disease.
    These symptoms, however, do not prevent them from carrying out normal activities and are not
    as severe as the symptoms for Alzheimer's disease. Symptoms often include misplacing items,
35  forgetting events or appointments, and having trouble thinking of desired words (e.g., Arniiz
                                                     72

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    and Almkvist, Acta Neurol. Scand. Supply. 2003, 179, 34-41).            Some patients with MCI,
    however, never progress to AD.
                                     Learning and Related Disabilities
             In a specific embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a learning,
  5 language, or reading disability, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment
    an effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
                                              Neuroprotection
             In specific embodiments, the invention provides          a method of neuroprotection,
    comprising administering to animal in need thereof an effective amount of a chemical entity or
 .0 composition of the present invention.
             Like neuroplasticity, neuroprotection reflects an endogenous neurobiological process that
    is central to protection of the nervous system. More specifically, neuroprotection refers to the
    ability to halt or slow the loss of neurons, thereby preventing or slowing disease progression and
    secondary injuries. In a particular aspect, neuroprotection targets neuronal damage arising from
 .5 oxidative stress and excitotoxicity - both of which are highly associated with CNS disorders,
    despite differences in symptoms or injuries.
             The utility of PDE4 inhibitors in the treatment of neuronal damage is known in the
    literature. In addition to neurodegenerative diseases, neuronal damage can also result from other
    sources of trauma, such as cerebrovascular diseases, including stroke and ischemia; brain
  0 trauma, including subdural hematoma and brain tumor; and head injury.
                                Augmented Cognitive and Motor Training
             In certain embodiments, a compound or composition herein is used as an augmenting
    agent in methods to enhance the efficiency of cognitive or motor training (collectively
    "training").    Such enhancement methods are collectively known as "augmented training,"
25  comprising "augmented cognitive training" or "augmented motor training."
             Training generally requires multiple sessions to attain the desired benefits, for example,
    to rehabilitate a motor deficit or language deficit following stroke. This can be costly and time
    consuming, deterring subject compliance and the realization of real world benefits that endure
    over time. The efficiency of such training protocols can be improved by administering certain
30  agents (known as augmenting agents) in conjunction with the training protocol (e.g., U.S.
    7,868,015; U.S. 7,947,731; US 2008-0188525).            Augmented training comprises a specific
    training protocol for a particular brain function, such as that underlying declarative memory,
    performance of a fine motor skill, locomotion, language acquisition, an executive function, etc.,
    and a general administration of CREB pathway-enhancing drugs.               The training protocol
                                                      73

         WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     (cognitive or motor training) induces neuronal activity in specific brain regions and produces
     improved performance of a specific brain (cognitive or motor) function. In other words, the use
     of augmenting agents achieves cognitive training effects with less repetition, i.e., fewer training
     sessions.
  5          In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a cognitive disorder,
     and more particularly, methods for improving a cognitive deficit associated with a central
     nervous system (CNS) disorder or condition in an animal, comprising treating the animal with
     an augmenting agent that enhances CREB pathway function in conjunction with cognitive
     training, wherein the augmenting agent is a compound or composition of the present invention.
 .0  Exemplary compounds of the present inventions, for example, have been shown to activate
     CREB in cell-based assays.
             In one aspect, the method comprises: (a) providing cognitive training to a subject in need
     of treatment of a cognitive deficit under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement in
     performance by said animal of a cognitive function whose impairment is associated with said
 .5  cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or composition of the present invention to the
     animal in conjunction with said cognitive training; repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times;
     and (d) reducing the number of training sessions sufficient to produce the improvement in
     performance, relative to the same improvement in performance produced by cognitive training
     alone.
  10         In another aspect, the method comprises: (a) providing cognitive training to a subject in
     need of treatment of a cognitive deficit under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement
     in performance by said animal of a cognitive function whose impairment is associated with said
     cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or composition of the present invention to the
     animal in conjunction with said cognitive training; repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times;
25   and (d) producing a long-lasting improvement in performance of said function relative to the
     improvement in performance of said function produced by cognitive training alone.
             In one aspect, a compound or composition of the present invention can be used as an
     augmenting agent in conjunction with any psychotherapeutic approach intended to modulate
     cognitive function in the brain, thereby enhancing the efficacy of such therapy by reducing the
30   number of sessions necessary to attain benefits.
             In another aspect, the cognitive deficit treated by these methods is or includes memory
     impairment, and more particularly, a defect in long-term memory. Long-term memory (LTM)
     generally comprises two main biological properties.       First, formation of long-term memory
     requires synthesis of new proteins. Second, it involves cAMP-responsive transcription and is
                                                      74

        WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    mediated through the cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) family transcription
    factors.    Compounds of the present invention can act as CREB-augmenting agents and are
    therefore useful in enhancing memory formation in an animal, and more particularly,
    transcription-dependent memory.       Indeed, exemplary compounds of the present invention
  5 activate CREB in cell-based assays.
             In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a motor disorder, and
    more particularly, methods for improving a motor deficit associated with a central nervous
    system (CNS) disorder or condition in an animal comprising treating the animal with an
    augmenting agent that enhances CREB pathway function in conjunction with motor training.
 .0 Methods are also provided herein for providing sustained improvement in a motor deficit
    associated with a central nervous system (CNS) disorder or condition in an animal in need of
    said treatment comprising administering to the animal a compound or composition of the present
    invention; and detecting said sustained improvement
             In one aspect, the method comprises: (a) providing motor training to a subject in need of
 .5 treatment of a motor deficit under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement in
    performance by said animal of a motor function whose impairment is associated with said
    cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or composition of the present invention to the
    animal in conjunction with said motor training; repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times;
    and (d) reducing the number of training sessions sufficient to produce the improvement in
  0 performance, relative to the same improvement in performance produced by motor training
    alone.
             In another aspect, the method comprises: (a) providing motor training to a subject in
    need of treatment of a motor deficit under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement in
    performance by said animal of a motor function whose impairment is associated with said
25  cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or composition of the present invention to the
    animal in conjunction with said motor training; repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times;
    and (d) producing a long-lasting improvement in performance of said function relative to the
    improvement in performance of said function produced by motor training alone.
             In other embodiments, the invention provides methods for enhancing a specific aspect of
30  cognitive performance in an otherwise healthy animal (particularly in a human or other mammal
    or vertebrate) comprising (a) administering to the animal an augmenting agent of the present
    invention; and (b) training the animal under conditions sufficient to produce an improvement in
    performance of a particular cognitive task by the animal. In other embodiments, the present
    invention provides methods of enhancing cognitive or motor performance, as well as methods
                                                    75

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    for repeated stimulation of neuronal activity or a pattern of neuronal activity, such as that
    underlying a specific neuronal circuit(s).
                                             Augmenting Agents
            Augmenting agents, including the compounds and compositions herein, are able to
  5 enhance CREB pathway function. By enhancing CREB pathway function in conjunction with
    training, such augmented training can decrease the number of training sessions required to
    improve performance of a cognitive or motor function, relative to the improvement observed by
    training alone (e.g., U.S. 2007-0203154, U.S. 2011-0160248, U.S. 2010-0317648, and U.S. Pat.
    No. 8,222,243).
 .0         The augmenting agent can be administered before, during or after one or more of the
    training sessions. In a particular embodiment, the augmenting agent is administered before and
    during each training session.      Treatment with an augmenting agent in connection with each
    training session is also referred to as the "augmenting treatment".
                                              Training Protocols
 .5         Training protocols are generally employed in rehabilitating individuals who have some
    form and degree of cognitive or motor dysfunction.           For example, training protocols are
    commonly employed in stroke rehabilitation and in age-related memory loss rehabilitation.
    Because multiple training sessions are often required before an improvement or enhancement of
    a specific aspect of cognitive (or motor) performance (ability or function) is obtained in the
  0 individuals, training protocols are often very costly and time-consuming.      Augmented training
    methods are more efficacious and therefore more cost-effective.
            For example, human brain injury often results in motor and cognitive impairments.
    While advances in critical care medicine and patient management have led to improvements in
    patient outcome following traumatic brain injury (TBI), there is currently no known treatment to
25  prevent the neuronal cell death and dysfunction that follows TBI. Although multiple treatments
    have proven neuroprotective in pre-clinical models of TBI, most have failed to show efficacy in
    humans.
            Once a patient is stabilized following TBI, the standard of care dictates extensive motor
    or cognitive rehabilitation. During this rehabilitation the patient often regains lost skills, finally
30  resulting in improved functional outcome. It would be beneficial if pharmaceutical treatments
    could be developed to enhance motor or cognitive rehabilitation following TBI, and thus
    improve functional outcome.
            Cognitive and motor training protocols and the underlying principles are well known in
    the art (e.g., Allen et al., ParkinsonsDis. 2012, 1-15; Jaeggi et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
                                                     76

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    2011, 108, 10081-10086; Chein et al., Psychon. Bull. Rev. 2010, 17, 193-199; Klingberg, Trends
    Cogn. Sci. 2010, 14, 317-324; Owen et al., Nature 2010, 465, 775-778; Tsao et al., J. Pain
    2010, 11, 1120-1128; Lustig et al., Neuropsychol. Rev. 2009, 19, 504-522; Park and Reuter
    Lorenz, Ann. Rev. Psych. 2009, 60, 173-196; Oujamaa et al., Ann. Phys. Rehabil. Med. 2009, 52,
  5 269-293; Frazzitta et al., Movement Disorders 2009, 8, 1139-1143; Jaeggi et al., Proc. Natl.
    Acad. Sci. USA 2008, 105, 6829-6833; Volpe et al., Neurorehabil.Neural Repair 2008, 22, 305
    310; Fischer et al., Top. Stroke Rehab. 2007, 14, 1-12; Jonsdottir et al., Neurorehabil.Neural
    Repair 2007, 21, 191-194; Stewart et al., J. Neurol. Sci. 2006, 244, 89-95; Krakauer, Curr. Opin.
    Neurol. 2006, 19, 84-90; Belleville et al., Dement. Geriatr. Cogn. Disord. 2006, 22, 486-499;
 .0 Klingberg et al., J. Am. Acad. Child. Adolesc. Psychiatry 2005, 44, 177-186; Dean et al., Arch.
    Phys. Med. Rehabil. 2000, 81,          409-417; Whitall et al., Stroke 2000, 31, 2390-2395;
    Hummelsheim and Eickhof, Scand. J. Rehabil. Med. 1999, 31, 250-256; Merzenich et al.,
    Science 1996, 271, 77-8 1; Merzenich et al., Cold Spring Harb. Symp. Quant. Biol. 1996, 61, 1-8;
    Rider and Abdulahad, Percept. Mot. Skills 1991, 73, 219-224; Wek and Husak, Percept. Mot.
 .5 Skills, 1989, 68, 107-113;
            Cognitive training protocols are directed to numerous cognitive dimensions, including
    memory, concentration and attention, perception, learning, planning, sequencing, and judgment.
    Motor training protocols can be directed to numerous motor domains, such as the rehabilitation
    of arm or leg function after a stroke or head injury.        One or more protocols (or modules)
  0 underling a training program can be provided to a subject.
            In some embodiments, the protocols can be used to treat, or rehabilitate, cognitive or
    motor impairments in afflicted subjects.        Such protocols may be restorative or remedial,
    intended to reestablish prior skills and functions, or they may be focused on delaying or slowing
    cognitive or motor decline due to neurological disease. Other protocols may be compensatory,
25  providing a means to adapt to a cognitive or motor deficit by enhancing function of related and
    uninvolved brain domains.        In other embodiments, the protocols can be used to improve
    particular skills or cognitive or motor functions in otherwise healthy individuals. For example, a
    cognitive training program might include modules focused on delaying or preventing cognitive
    decline that normally accompanies aging; here the program is designed to maintain or improve
30  cognitive health.
            In general, a training protocol (or module) comprises a set of distinct exercises that can
    be process-specific or skill-based: Process-specific training focuses on improving a particular
    domain such as attention, memory, language, executive function, or motor function. Here the
    goal of training is to obtain a general improvement that transfers from the trained activities to
                                                     77

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    untrained activities associated with the same cognitive or motor function or domain.             For
    example, an auditory cognitive training protocol can be used to treat a student with impaired
    auditory attention. At the end of training, the student should show a generalized improvement in
    auditory attention, manifested by an increased ability to attend to and concentrate on verbal
  5 information presented in class-and therefore to remember to write down and complete
    homework assignments.         Similarly, a cognitive training protocol may be directed to impaired
    executive function in an autistic subject, preventing the subject from carrying out instructions to
    complete an activity, such as making a meal, cleaning one's room, or preparing for school in the
    morning. Cognitive training allows the subject to focus his attention and concentration and as a
 .0 result, complete the sequence of tasks required for such activities.
              Skill-based training is aimed at improving performance of a particular activity or ability.
    Here the goal of training is to obtain a general improvement in the skill or ability. For example,
    a training protocol may focus on learning a new language, performing a musical instrument,
    improving memory, or learning a fine motor skill. The different exercises within such a protocol
 .5 will focus on core components underlying the skill.           Modules for increasing memory, for
    example, may include tasks directed to the recognition and use of fact, and the acquisition and
    comprehension of explicit knowledge rules.
              Some rehabilitation programs may rely on a single strategy (such as computer-assisted
    cognitive training) targeting either an isolated cognitive function or multiple functions
  0 concurrently.     For example, the CogState testing method comprises a customizable range of
    computerized cognitive tasks able to measure baseline and change in cognitive domains
    underlying attention, memory, executive function, as well as language and social-emotional
    cognition (e.g.,     Yoshida et al., PloS ON,            2011,  6, e20469; Frederickson et al.,
    Neuroepidemiology 2010, 34, 65-75). Other rehabilitation programs may use an integrated or
25  interdisciplinary approach.       Cognitive and motor training programs may involve computer
    games, handheld game devices, interactive exercises, and may employ feedback and adaptive
    models.
                                  Neurorehabilitation and Neurorecovery
             In other embodiments, the invention further relates to the use of compounds and
30  compositions of the present invention in neurorecovery and neurorehabilitation - endogenous
    neurobiological processes that are central to recovery of cognitive and motor impairments of the
    nervous system (e.g., Harkema et al., Arch. Phys. Med. Rehabil. 2012, 93, 1588-1597; Muresanu
    et al., J. Cell. Mol. Med. 2012, 16, 2861-2871).
             Neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery generally refers to a collection process that focuses
35  on aiding a person's recovery from a neurological disorder, or helping that individual to live a
                                                       78

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
    more normal, active, and independent life. For example, the quality of life of a person can be
    greatly affected by a brain or spinal cord injury, or a medical condition which affects the
    mobility, cognitive functions, or other physical or psychological processes that have been
    affected by changes in the nervous system. The goal of neurorehabilitation is to combat those
  5 changes and improve quality of life by various therapies.
            Conditions within the scope of the invention that are treated by neurorehabilitation and
    neurorecovery include:     Stroke; traumatic brain injury (TB); Dementia; Alzheimer's disease;
    Parkinson's disease; Huntington's disease; Cerebral palsy; Post-polio syndrome; Guillain-Barre
    syndrome, and Multiple Sclerosis; and other developmental syndromes, genetic conditions, and
 .0 progressive CNS diseases affecting cognitive function, such as autism spectrum disorders, fetal
    alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD), Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, Down syndrome, and other
    forms of mental retardation.
            By focusing on all aspects of a person's well-being, neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery
    offers a series of therapies from the psychological to occupational, teaching or re-training
 .5 patients on mobility skills, communication processes, and other aspects of that person's daily
    routine. Neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery also provides focuses on nutrition, psychological,
    and creative parts of a person's recovery.
            In one embodiment,        the present invention    provides  a method of augmenting
    neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery from a cognitive impairment, comprising (a) providing
  0 cognitive training to a subject in need of treatment of a cognitive deficit under conditions
    sufficient to produce an improvement in performance by said animal of a cognitive function
    whose impairment is associated with said cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or
    composition of the present invention to the animal in conjunction with said cognitive training;
    repeating steps (a) and (b) one or more times; and (d) producing a long-lasting improvement in
25  performance of said function relative to the improvement in performance of said function
    produced by cognitive training alone.
            In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of augmenting
    neurorehabilitation or neurorecovery from a motor impairment, comprising: (a) providing motor
    training to a subject in need of treatment of a motor deficit under conditions sufficient to
30  produce an improvement in performance by said animal of a motor function whose impairment
    is associated with said cognitive deficit; (b) administering a compound or composition of the
    present invention to the animal in conjunction with said motor training; repeating steps (a) and
    (b) one or more times; and (d) reducing the number of training sessions sufficient to produce the
    improvement in performance, relative to the same improvement in performance produced by
35  motor training alone.
                                                    79

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
                                 Non-Human Animal Training Protocols
            Aside from applications for humans, compounds and compositions of the present
    invention have additional uses for non-human animals, namely in enhancing (augmenting) the
    efficiency of training protocols directed to numerous cognitive and motor functions.
  5         Conditions,   under which      non-human animals        would benefit,  include enhanced
    (augmented) training procedures for specific purposes, (e.g. hunting dogs, guide dogs, police
    dogs etc, or animals used in movie industry).
            Enhanced training protocols can also benefit animals that have been exposed to stressful
    or traumatic conditions and are in need of training to treat the resulting cognitive impairments.
 .0 Such a need may arise, for example, after such an animal has been captured or transported,
    subjected to new housing conditions (as in a change of domicile or owner), or has developed
    analogous disorders and is distressed or aggressive, or displays stereotypic behavior, obsessive
    compulsive behavior, or anxiety.       Animals which are subject to stress would also include
    animals used in racing (eg. dogs, horses, camels) or other sports, performing animals (such as
 .5 circus animals and those appearing on stage, television or in the movies) and horses that perform
    dressage and other highly disciplined routines.
            Compounds of the present invention can also enhance the efficiency of rehabilative
    protocols following physical injury to a non-human animal, such as limb amputation.            For
    example, administering an augmenting agent of the present invention in conjunction with a
  o trainin protocol can increase the efficiency of a rehabilitative program by decreasing the number
    of training sessions necessary to achieve an improvement in motor function.
            In particular embodiments, compounds and compositions of the present invention are
    used in methods of training service animals. By combining augmenting agents of the present
    invention with training protocols, the efficiency of training non-human animals for service in
25  both the public and private sectors will be enhanced.          Service animals are typically dogs.
    However, other non-human animals can also be trained to perform services, such as assisting
    blind or disabled people. For example, miniature horses can be trained to guide the blind, to pull
    wheelchairs, or to provide support for Parkinson's patients.        As another example, capuchin
    monkeys can be trained to assist disabled perform manual tasks, such as grasping items,
30  operating knobs and switches, turning the pages of a book.
            In specific embodiments, augmented training with compounds and compositions of the
    present invention can be used to reduce the number of training sessions necessary to teach an
    animal skills that are useful in public service, such as in law enforcement. In dogs, for example,
    such skills include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) public order maintenance, e.g.,
35  chasing, holding, or detaining suspects; (ii) search and rescue, e.g., locating suspects, missing
                                                      80

         WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    persons, or objects; and (iii) contraband detection, e.g., detecting illicit substances such as drugs,
    narcotics, explosives, weapons, and even human remains.            Such methods can therefore be
    applied to police dogs, bomb-sniffing dogs, drug-sniffing dogs, search and rescue dogs, etc.
            In other embodiments, augmented training (with compounds and compositions of the
  5 present invention) can be used to reduce the number of training sessions required to teach
    animals skills that are useful in the private sector, such as security and medical care. In dogs, for
    example, such skills can include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) private security, e.g.,
    guarding property or protecting an individual; (ii) handicap assistance, e.g., providing eyes for
    the visually impaired, ears for the hearing-impaired, arms and legs for the physically-disabled;
 .0 (iii) health care, e.g., detecting cancer or altering a caregiver to seizures in a subject; (iv)
    psychiatric assistance, e.g., calming a phobic person under stress-triggering conditions, or
    alerting an autistic person to distracting repetitive movements such as hand flapping; and (v)
    pest control, e.g., identifying source of infestations by bedbugs or termites.
            In some embodiments, the training protocol can be directed to a single skill or task, such
 .5 as the detection of a single drug. In other embodiments, the training protocol can be directed to
    a complex set of skills, such as those underlying search and rescue. For a complex set of skills,
    training will therefore comprise more than one task.
            In another aspect, when training is carried out with a wide enough scope of tasks, a
    generalized "rehabilitation" effect is expected, resulting in generalized improved function of one
  0 or more cognitive domains. This results in improved performance of the animal of related tasks
    (involving the same cognitive domains) that are not specifically part of the training protocol.
            Accordingly, the present invention provides a method of reducing the time necessary to
    teach an animal one or more skills, wherein said reducing comprising: a) administering an
    augmenting agent of the present invention to the animal; b) providing a training protocol to said
25  dog under conditions to improve performance of one or more tasks, wherein said training
    protocol comprises multiple training sessions; and c) decreasing the number of training sessions
    required to improve performance of said one or more tasks relative to the number of said
    training sessions required to produce said improvement in performance by the training protocol
    alone.
30          The training protocol can be provided to the animal under conditions to improve
    performance of a single task; a complex set of tasks; or a wide scope of tasks, resulting in
    generalized improved function of one or more cognitive domains. The tasks can relate to a skill
    involved in public service, such as public order maintenance, search and rescue, and contraband
    detection.   The tasks can also relate to a skill involved in private service, such as private
35  security, handicap assistance, health care, psychiatric assistance, and pest control.
                                                       81

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
                                           Peripheral Disorders
            PDE4 enzymes are located in a number of peripheral tissues. For example, one or several
    PDE4D isoforms are expressed throughout most tissues tested, including cortex, hippocampus,
    cerebellum, heart, liver, kidney, lung and testis (Richter et al., Biochem. J., 2005, 388, 803-811).
  5 The localization and regulation of PDE4D isoforms is thought to allow for tight and local
    regulation of cAMP levels, possibly limiting signal propagation in specific subcellular
    compartments.
            Thus, in one embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating a peripheral
    disorder associated with PDE4, by administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically
 .0 effective amount of a compound or pharmaceutical composition described herein.
            The peripheral disorder may include, but is not limited to, such PDE4-associated
    disorders as inflammatory bowel disease (Banner and Trevethick, 2004, Trends Pharmacol.Sci.
    25, 430-436); rheumatoid arthritis (Kobayashi et al., 2007, Mediators Inflamm. 2007, 58901);
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, allergic rhinitis, pulmonary artery
 .5 hypertension (DeFranceschi et al., 2008, FASEB J., 22, 1849-1860); renal diseases (Conti et al.,
    2003, J. Biol. Chem., 278, 5493); allergic skin diseases and psoriasis (Baumer et al., 2007,
    Inflamm. Allergy Drug Targets, 6, 17-26).
                                               EXAMPLES
            The present disclosure will be further illustrated by the following non-limiting Examples.
  0 These Examples are understood to be exemplary only, and they are not to be construed as
    limiting the scope of the invention herein, and as defined by the appended claims.
                                      PREPARATIVE EXAMPLES
            Exemplary compounds useful in methods of the invention will now be described by
    reference to the illustrative synthetic schemes for their general preparation below and the
25  specific examples to follow.
                                            Synthetic Schemes
            One skilled in the art will recognize that, to obtain the various compounds herein,
    starting materials may be suitably selected so that the ultimately desired substituents will be
    carried through the reaction scheme with or without protection as appropriate to yield the
30  desired product. Alternatively, it may be necessary or desirable to employ, in the place of the
    ultimately desired substituent, a suitable group that may be carried through the reaction scheme
    and replaced as appropriate with the desired substituent.           Unless otherwise specified, the
    variables are as defined above in reference to Formula (I).           Reactions may be performed
    between -78 'C and the reflux temperature of the solvent. Reactions may be heated employing
                                                      82

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    conventional heating or microwave heating. Reactions may also be conducted in sealed pressure
    vessels above the normal reflux temperature of the solvent.
    SCHEME A
                                 NH          Alkylation
                             HO
                                     Br
                                                        U                    N      U
                              CI                                                Br
                                     Br                                        (VI)
                                   (111)
                                           N Bromination      N N     U
                            H2N         Z                 H2N       Z
                                   (IV)                         Br
  5                                                             (V)
              According to Scheme A, commercially available or synthetically accessible 3-bromo-5
    methylpyridin-2-ol (II) is difluoromethylated with 2,2-difluoro-2-(fluorosulfonyl)acetic acid or
    the      silyl    ester      of      2-fluorosulfonyldiflouroacetate,  preferably     2,2-difluoro-2
    (fluorosulfonyl)acetic acid, in an aprotic solvent, such as ACN, a base, such as Na 2 CO 3 , NaH,
 .0 and the like, preferably Na 2 CO 3 , at temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux
    temperature of the solvent, preferably room temperature, to afford a compound of formula (VI)
    where Z is CH and R 4 is CHF 2 (Chen et al., J. Flourine Chem., 1989, 44, 433-440).
              According to Scheme A, a compound of formula (VI), where Z is CH, U is -CH 3 , R 4 is
    C1. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, is prepared from a commercially available or synthetically accessible
15  compound of formula (III), where U is -CH 3 . Reaction of 3-bromo-2-chloro-5-methylpyridine,
    with an alkoxide, such as sodium ethoxide, sodium methoxide and the like, in a suitable solvent,
    such as the alcohol used to generate the alkoxide, at a temperature ranging from room
    temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent, for a period of 4 to 48 h provides a
    bromopyridyl ether compound of formula (VI). Alternatively, a compound of formula (VI),
20  where R 4 is -C1. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, may be prepared by reaction of 3-bromo-2-chloro-5
    methylpyridine with a suitably substituted primary or secondary alcohol, in the presence of a
    base such as NaH, in a solvent, such as DMA, 1,4-dioxane, THF, and the like, at temperatures
    ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent.
              According to Scheme A, a compound of formula (VI), where Z is CH, U is -CH 2OH, R 4
25  is -CI. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, is prepared in two steps from a commercially available or
                                                             83

         WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    synthetically accessible compound of formula (III), where U is -CO 2 H or -CO 2 C1. 3 alkyl. For
    example, 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinic acid is reacted with a suitably substituted alcohol, in the
    presence of a base such as NaH, Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, with our without a solvent, such as DMA,
    1,4-dioxane, THF, and the like, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux
  5 temperature of the solvent, employing conventional or microwave heating, for a period of 30
    minutes to 8 h, to provide a compound of formula (VI), where R 4 is -C1. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl.
    In an alternate method, a compound of formula (VI), where U is -CO 2 C1. 3 alkyl, and R4 is -C1.
    3 alkyl  or -C1- 3haloalkyl, is prepared from a compound of formula (III), where U is -CO 2 H, where
    the acid is activated, with a suitable activating agent, followed by reaction with a suitable
 .0 alcohol. For example 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinic acid is reacted with a chlorinating agent such
    as oxalyl chloride, in a solvent such as DMF, to provide the acid chloride. Subsequent reaction
    with an alkoxide, in a suitable solvent, such as the alcohol used to generate the alkoxide,
    provides a compound of formula (VI), where U is -CO 2 CI 3 alkyl, and R4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1.
    3haloalkyl.     In a subsequent reaction, a compound of formula (VI), where U is -CO 2 CI 3 alkyl,
 .5 and R4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, is reduced with a reducing agent such as NaBH 4 , LiBH 4 ,
    or a mixture thereof, in a solvent such as THF, and the like, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to
    rt, to provide a compound of formula (VI), where U is -CH 2 OH.
              According to Scheme A, a compound of formula (VI), where Z is CH, U is -CH 2 Cl, and
    R4   is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl is prepared from a compound of formula (VI), where Z is CH,
  0 U is -CH 2OH, and R 4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl. For example (5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3
    yl)methanol is reacted with a halogenating agent such as thionyl chloride, in a solvent such as
    DCM, and the like, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to rt, to provide 3-bromo-5
    (chloromethyl)-2-ethoxypyridine.
              A compound of formula (VI), where Z is CH, U is -CH(=O), and R4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1.
25  3haloalky,       for    example     5-bromo-6-methoxynicotinaldehyde,     is    prepared    from  6
    methoxynicotinaldehyde, employing a bromination reaction conditions known to one skilled in
    the art. For example, 6-methoxynicotinaldehyde is reacted with Br 2, NaOAc, in a solvent such
    as     HOAc,      at   temperatures     ranging   from  rt  to  90   C,    to   provide   5-bromo-6
    methoxynicotinaldehyde.
30            According to Scheme          A, commercially available   or synthetically accessible 5
    methylpyrazin-2-amine (IV), where R 1 is H, U is CH 3, and Z is N, is brominated under
    conditions known to one skilled in the art, for example, by reaction with a suitable halogenating
    agent such as NBS, Br 2 , and the like, in an appropriate solvent such as DCM, 1,4-dioxane, THF,
    CHCl 3, preferably DCM, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to room temperature, for a period of
35  8 to 16 h to afford 3-bromo-5-methylpyrazin-2-amine.           Subsequent reaction of 3-bromo-5
                                                         84

        WO 2014/158998                                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    methylpyrazin-2-amine (V) with an oxidizing agent, such as, but not limited to, tert-butyl nitrite,
    in the presence of an anhydrous acid source, for example, HCl in 1,4-dioxane, in an alcoholic
    solvent such as MeOH, EtOH, and the like, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to 60 'C, for a
    period of 8 to 16 h affords compounds of formula (VI), where Z is N, U is -CH 3, and R 4 is -C1 .
  5 3 alkyl.
             According to Scheme A, commercially available or synthetically accessible 6-amino-2
    methylnicotinonitrile (IV), where R 1 is -CH 3 , U is -CN, and Z is CH is prepared in two steps
    (bromination and diazotization/alcohol addition) by the methods previously described to provide
    compounds of formula (VI) where R 1 is -CH 3 , U is -CN, and Z is CH.
 .0                                                   SCHEME B
                    Br                                Br                                    O BO
                                                                            Borylation
                                                                                                       F
                                                                  F
                             OH    Alkylation
                    N     ~OH                       'N        0'<F                            N     0    F
                    (VII)                               (ViII)                                 (IX)
             According to Scheme B, 2-(difluoromethoxy)-4-(4,4,5,5 -tetramethyl- 1,3,2-dioxoborolan
    2-yl)pyridine    (IX)    is  obtained      in 2      steps       from   commercially      available       4-bromo-2
    hydroxypyridine (VII).        Alkylation of 4-bromo-2-hydroxypyridine (VII), with 2-chloro-2,2
 .5 difluoroacetate in a solvent such as ACN, THF, 1,4-dioxane, or a mixture thereof, at
    temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent, for a
    period of 6-12 h (also described in W02010/056195, May 20, 2010) provides 4-bromo-2
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridine (VIII). A boronate ester is prepared using methods known to one
    skilled in the art, for example, 2-difluoromethoxy-4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-[1,3,2]dioxaborolan-2
20  yl)-pyridine (IX) is prepared from 4-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine (VIII) by reaction with
    KOAc, K 3 P0 4 , and the like, a catalyst such as Pd(dppf)C12 , Pd(PPh 3) 4 , and the like,
    bis(pinacolato)diboron, and the like, in a solvent such as 1,4-dioxane, 1-2-dimethoxyethane,
    DMF, DMSO, and the like, at temperatures ranging from 60 to 150 'C, for a period of 6-24 h.
                                                      SCHEME C
                   R1                                           R1           Halgenation
                 N '      U     Suzuki coupling             N       - U
                                                                            1) DIBAL-H or                N      r  HAL
                                                     R40            Z
             R40        Z   R4 0R                      4 0NaBH                       4              R4
                   BrI)                                        (X)          2) Halogenation                 R3
                                                                          (X)I
                                                                                                           (XI)
25                                       Suzuki coupling
                                                               85

        WO 2014/158998                                                                 PCT/US2014/021426
            As shown in Scheme C, a compound of formula (VI), where U is -CH 3 , -CN, -CH 2OH,
    CH(=0), or -NH 2 , Z is CH or N; R1 is H or -CH 3 , and R 4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl; under
    Suzuki reaction conditions known to one skilled in the art, is reacted with commercially
    available or synthetically accessible aromatic or heteroaromatic boronic acids or esters, or
  5 synthetically accessible heteroaromatic boronic esters, such as compound (IX), in a solvent such
    as ACN, toluene, EtOH, H 2 0, or a mixture thereof, in the presence of a base such as,
    NaHCO 3 ,Na 2 CO 3 , K2 C0 3 , Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, and a palladium catalyst such as Pd(dppf) 2,
    Pd(PPh 3) 4 , and the like, employing conventional or microwave heating, at temperatures ranging
    from 80 to 120 C, to provide a compound of formula (X). A compound of formula (X) where
 .0 R3 is aryl or heteroaryl optionally substituted with -OH, under standard alkylating conditions
    known to one skilled in the art, is treated with commercially available or synthetically accessible
    alkyl groups with appropriate leaving groups, such as halides, for example -Cl, -Br or -I, or
    sulfonates, such as methanesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl and the like, in the presence of a base,
    such as but not limited to, NaH, K 2 CO 3 , Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, in a solvent such as DMF,
 .5 DMSO, 1,-4-dioxane, and the like, at temperatures ranging from 60 'C to the reflux temperature
    of the solvent for a period of 8 to 24 h, to provide a aryl or heteroaryl O-alkyl compound of
    formula (X).
            Halogenation of a compound of formula (X), where U is -CH 3 or -CH 2OH, Z is CH or N;
    R1 is H or -CH 3 , R 3 is aryl or heteroaryl, and R 4 is -C1. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, under free-radical
  o halogenation conditions. For example, a compound of formula (X), where U is -CH 3 , is reacted
    with NBS, a radical initiator such as AIBN or benzoyl peroxide, in a solvent such as CCl 4 , at
    temperatures ranging from 60 'C to the reflux temperature of the solvent, for a period of 4 to 24
    h, provides a compound of formula (XI), where HAL is -Br.                       In an alternate method, a
    compound of formula (X), where U is -CH 2OH, is reacted with a chlorinating agent such as
25  thionyl chloride, employing methods previously described, to provide a compound of formula
    (X), where HAL is -Cl.
            A nitrile compound of formula (X), where U is -CN, Z is CH; R1 is -CH 3 , R 3 is aryl or
    heteroaryl, and R 4 is -CH 3 , is reduced to the corresponding aldehyde with a reducing agent such
    as DIBAL, and the like, in a solvent such as DCM, THF, toluene, and the like, at low
30  temperature, preferably -78 'C, for a period of 1 to 3 h. Subsequent reduction of the aldehyde
    moiety to the corresponding alcohol, is accomplished with a reducing agent, such as sodium or
    lithium borohydride, and the like, in a solvent such as MeOH, THF, and the like, at temperatures
    ranging from 0 'C to room temperature.             Activation of the alcohol using methanesulfonyl
    chloride, in a suitable solvent, such as DCM, in the presence of an alkylamine base, such as
                                                         86

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Hinig's base, TEA, and the like, provides a compound of formula (XI), where U is -CN, Z is
    CH; R1 is -CH 3, R 4 is -CH 3 and HAL is -Cl.
               According to Scheme C, 5-bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-amine, where U is -NH 2 , Z is
    CH; R1 is H, R4 is -CH 3, is reacted under standard Suzuki reaction conditions as previously
  5 described, to provide compounds of formula (X), where U is -NH 2, Z is CH; R1 is H, R3 is aryl
    or heteroaryl, and R 4 is -CH 3 . Alternately, a compound of formula (X), may be prepared from
    commercially available or synthetically accessible suitably substituted pyridine amines, such as,
    5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-amine, as outlined in the procedures described above, where U is
    NH 2 , Z is CH; R1 is H, R3 is aryl or heteroaryl, and R 4 is -CI 3 alkyl.
 .0                                              SCHEME D
                                                                                        R
                    N       NH  1) Diazotization              Br  1) Lithiation      N         R2
                                                                  2) Addition    RIO       Z
                 0
                                2) Halogenation    0
                       R3                               R3                              R3
                      (XII)                            (XIll)                          (1)
               According to Scheme D, a compound of formula (XII), under Sandmeyer conditions
    known to one skilled in the art, are reacted with an oxidizing agent, such as, but not limited to,
    tert-butyl nitrite, in the presence of a halogenating agent, for example copper(II)bromide, in an
 .5 appropriate solvent, such as ACN and the like, at a suitable temperature, preferably 60 'C,
    affords a compound of formula (XIII).         Lithiation of a compound of formula (XIII) with a
    suitable metallo-base, such as n-BuLi or the like, in a non-protic solvent, such as THF, Et 2 0 or
    the like, at a low temperature, preferably -78 'C, for a period of 30-60 minutes, prior to addition
    of an appropriate aryl or heteroarylcarbonyl compound, followed by additional stirring at
  0 temperatures ranging from -78 'C to ambient temperature, provides a compound of Formula (I),
    where Y is CHOH, Z is CH, R2 and R3 are monocyclic aromatic or heteroaromatic rings, and R 4
    is -CH 3.
               A fluoro compound of Formula (I), where Y is -C(Ra) 2 -, and Ra is -H or -F; is prepared
    by the reaction of an alcohol of Formula (I), where Y is CH(OH), employing fluorinating
25  conditions such, but not limited to, reaction with Deoxo-Fluor@, XtalFluor@ and the like, in a
    solvent such as DCM and the like, at room temperature, for a period of 1 to 24 h.
               A compound of Formula (I), where Y is -C(Ra) 2 -, and Ra is -H is prepared by treating an
    alcohol of Formula (I), where Y is CH(OH), with a reducing agent, such as but not limited to
    triethylsilane in the presence of an acid source, such as trifluoroacetic acid, triflic acid and the
30  like, in a solvent such as DCM and the like, at room temperature, for a period up to 24 h.
               An amine compound of Formula (I), where Y is -CHNH 2-, -CHNH(CH 3)-, or -CHN
    (CH 3 ) 2 -, is prepared in two steps by the reaction of an alcohol of Formula (I), where Y is
                                                       87

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    CH(OH), with a chlorinating agent, such as thionyl chloride, oxalyl chloride and the like, with or
    without a catalytic amount of DMF, in a solvent such as DCM, and the like, at temperatures
    ranging from 0 'C to room temperature to provide the chloro intermediate which is then reacted
    with the appropriate amine, such as, but not limited to ammonia, methylamine and the like, with
  5 or without a catalytic amount of sodium iodide, in solvent such as ACN, at a temperature
    ranging from room temperature to 80 'C.
                                                 SCHEME E
                                               Suzuki coupling
                                              or Negishi
                                                          coupling
                                                                            R
                                           R1N                                    R2
                               N    z>  HAL     HET                  R0        Z
                            4                                               R3
                           R0                   K2C
                                  R3            or Cs2CO3
                                 (IX)(I
                                                 "Click Chemistry"
              As described in Scheme E, a compound of Formula (I) can be obtained from a compound
 .0 of formula (IX) thru a reaction such as, but not limited to, Suzuki or Negishi coupling reactions,
    and substitution reactions with nitrogen heteroaryls. A compound of formula (IX) is reacted,
    employing standard Suzuki coupling conditions, known to those skilled in the art and previously
    described herein, with commercially available aromatic or heteroaromatic boronic acids, boronic
    esters, trifluoroborates or synthetically accessible heteroaromatic boronic esters, such as
 .5 compound (IV), to give a compound of Formula (I). In an alternate method, a compound of
    formula (IX), where HAL is -Cl, is reacted with dipinacol diboron, a suitable base such as
    K 2 C0 3 , a palladium catalyst such as Pd(PPh 3) 4 , and the like, in a solvent such as dioxane, to
    provide the corresponding boronate ester.         Subsequent reaction of the boronate ester with a
    suitably halo substituted heteroaryl compound employing Suzuki reaction conditions previously
20  described, provides a compound of Formula (I).
              A compound of formula (IX) is reacted, employing standard Negishi coupling
    conditions, known to those skilled in the art. An example of Negishi reaction conditions are:
    coupling commercially available halogen containing aromatic or heteroaromatic intermediates,
    with a preformed zincate obtained from reacting compounds of formula (IX) with zinc,
25  pretreated with activators such as trimethylsilyl chloride and 1,2-dibromoethane,              in an
    appropriate solvent, such as THF, 1,4-dioxane, and the like, at a temperature ranging from room
    temperature to reflux temperature, preferably reflux temperature, for a period of 12 to 24 h.
    Combining the zincate intermediate with commercially available halogen containing aromatic or
                                                         88

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    heteroaromatic compounds in the presence of a palladium catalyst, such as Pd(PPh 3) 4 and the
    like, in a suitable solvent, such as THF, 1,4-dioxane, and the like, at temperatures ranging from
    50 'C to the reflux temperature of the solvent, for a period of 12 to 48 h, affords a compound of
    Formula (I), where R2 is a six membered heteroaryl ring containing one to two nitrogen
  5 members.
              A compound of formula (IX) when combined with the appropriate heterocycle (HET)
    with an acidic proton, such as but not limited to, 1H-1,2,4-triazole or imidazole, in an aprotic
    solvent, for example DMF, acetone, ACN, and the like, with a suitable base, such as Cs 2 CO 3 ,
    K 2 C0 3 , and the like, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 60 'C, for period of 2 to
 .0 24 h, provides a compound of Formula (I), where R2 is a five membered heteroaryl ring
    containing two to three nitrogen members.
              A compound of Formula (I), where Y is -CH 2 , and R 2 is an optionally substituted 1,2,3
    triazole is obtained using "Click Chemistry" (for example, copper-catalyzed azide-alkyne
    cycloaddition) under conditions known to one skilled in the art, for example, by treating a
 .5 compound of formula (IX) with sodium azide in a suitable solvent, such as DMF, acetone,
    DMSO, and the like, and base such as K2 CO 3 , and the like, at temperatures ranging from room
    temperature to 100 'C, affords the azido intermediate which is then combined with a
    commercially      available or synthetically accessible alkyne, such as but not limited to
    ethynyltrimethylsilane, and the like, in a solvent such as DMSO, 1,4-dioxane, THF, ACN, t
  0 butanol, and water or a mixture thereof, in the presence of a catalyst, for example
    copper(II)iodide, copper(II)bromide, copper(I)sulfate, and the like, and base, such as DIPEA,
    and the like, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 100 'C, for a period of 2 to 12 h,
    provide a compound of Formula (I),where R2 is an optionally substituted 1,2,3-triazole.
              A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with an amide (-CONH 2), is
25  prepared from the corresponding nitriles (-CN) or esters (-CO 2 C1. 3 alkyl) using methods known
    to those skilled in the art. For example, an amide of Formula (I) is obtained by reaction of a
    nitrile compound of Formula (I) with a base, such as NaOH or KOH, preferably NaOH, and a
    peroxide, such as H 2 0 2 , in a solvent such as MeOH, and the like, at a temperatures ranging from
    0 to 50 'C, for a period of 8 to 24 h. Optionally, a carboxylic acid compound of Formula (I) are
30  obtained when nitrile compound of Formula (I) are treated as described above at a temperature
    of 50 'C, for a period of 2 to 4 h. An ester compound of Formula (I) is converted to an amide of
    Formula (I) by treating with an appropriate amine, such as ammonia, methylamine or the like, in
    a solvent, such as MeOH, 1,4-dioxane, and the like, at temperatures ranging from room
    temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent.
                                                       89

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
            A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with a primary (-(CH 2)1-2OH) or
    tertiary (-C(CH 3) 2 0H) alcohol is prepared from a corresponding aldehyde or ester compound of
    Formula (I), using methods known to those skilled in the art.          Reduction of an aldehyde
    compound of Formula (I) with a reducing agent, such as NaBH 4 or NaBH 3CN, and the like, in a
  5 solvent such as MeOH, THF, DMF and the like, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to room
    temperature, for a period of 0.2 to 2 h, affords a primary alcohol compound of Formula (I),
    where R 2 is substituted with -CH 2OH. A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with
    an ester moiety, is reduced, with a reducing agent, such as NaBH 4, LiBH 4, LAH, DIBAL and the
    like, with our without KF, in a solvent such as MeOH, THF, Et 2 0 and the like, at temperatures
 .0 ranging from 0 'C to room temperature, for a period of 2 to 24 h, to afford a primary alcohol
    compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -CH 2OH.
            A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with -CH 2OH or -CHO, is
    fluorinated, employing fluorinating conditions such as, but not limited to, reaction with Deoxo
    Fluor@, XtalFluor@ and the like, in a solvent such as DCM and the like, room temperature, for a
 .5 period of 2 to 24 h, to provide a fluoroalkyl compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted
    with -CH 2F or -CHF 2.
            A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with an ester moiety, is reacted
    under Grignard conditions known to one skilled in the art, with a Grignard reagent such as, but
    not limited to, methylmagnesium bromide, in a solvent such as THF, Et 2 0, and the like, at
  o temperatures ranging from 0 'C to room temperature, for a period of 0.3 to 2 h, to provide a
    compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with a tertiary alcohol (-C(CH 3) 2 0H).
            A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with -CN, is reduced with a
    reducing agent, such as DIBAL and the like, in a solvent such as Et 2 0, THF, and the like, at low
    temperatures, preferably -78 'C, for a period of 1 to 4 h, to provide a primary amine compound
25  of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with primary amine (-CH 2NH 2 ).
            A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -CN, is reacted with acetyl
    chloride, in an alcoholic solvent such as MeOH, EtOH, and the like, a at low temperature,
    preferably 0 'C, for a period of 30 min. to 2 h, provides a compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is
    substituted with CO 2 CI 3 alkyl.
30          A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -CH 2 CN, is reacted under
    alkylating conditions, known to one skilled in the art, to provide a compound of Formula (I),
    where R 2 is substituted with -C(CH 3) 2CN. For example, reaction with an alkylating agent such
    as Mel, a base such as NaOH, a solvent such as DMSO, water, or a mixture thereof, at low
    temperatures such as 0 'C, for a period of 30 min. to 2 h.
                                                     90

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with an ester moiety, is reacted
    under standard hydrolysis conditions known to one skilled in the art, with a base such as, but not
    limited to, KOH, LiOH, NaOH and the like, in a solvent such as THF, 1,4-dioxane, MeOH, H 2 0
    or a mixture thereof, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of
  5 the solvent, for a period of 1 to 4 h, to provide a compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is
    substituted with carboxylic acid (-CO 2 H).
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with an amide (-CONH 2) is
    prepared in two steps from a compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with carboxylic
    acid (-CO 2 H).    Halogenation to the acid chloride employing known methods, followed by
 .0 reaction with an ammonia source such as ammonia in dioxane, provides a compound of Formula
    (I), where R 2 is substituted with an amide (-CONH 2).
             A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is            an optionally substituted pyrimidine or
    pyrazine substituted with -Cl or -Br is reacted with alkyl or heteroalkyl oxygen or nitrogen
    nucleophiles, such as N1,N1-dimethylethane-1,2-diamine, 2-aminoethanol, morpholine, and the
 .5 like, in a solvent such as ACN, THF, EtOH, DMF, toluene, and the like, a base such as DIPEA,
    TEA, NaH, K2 C0 3 , and the like, at temperature ranging from 50 to 180 'C, employing
    conventional or microwave heating conditions, for a period of 1 to 4 h, to provide a compound
    of Formula (I), where R2 is an optionally substituted pyrimidine or pyrazine.
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -NO 2 , is reduced with a
  o reducing agent, such as, but not limited to zinc or iron, in a solvent such as acetic acid, water, or
    a mixture thereof, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 50 'C, for a period of 1 to 4
    h, to provide a primary amine compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with primary
    amine (-NH 2).
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with primary amine (-NH 2) is
25  reacted with tert-butyl nitrite, in a solvent such as DMF, water, or a mixture thereof, at
    temperatures ranging from 0 'C to 60 'C, for a period of 8 to 16 h, affords a compound of
    Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -OH.
             A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with (-NHR) or (-N(R) 2) is
    prepared from the corresponding amine compounds of Formula (I), employing methods known
30  to one skilled in the art, such as but not limited to a reductive amination reaction. For example,
    a compound of Formula (I) where R 2 is substituted with (-NH 2), is reacted with an appropriate
    carbonyl intermediate, such as but not limited to, formaldehyde and the like, in a solvent such as
    THF, DCM, MeOH and the like, with a reducing agent, such as NaBH(OAc) 3, NaBH 3 CN and
    the like, at temperatures ranging from 0 to 50 'C, for a period of 1 to 4 h, to provide an alkyl
35  amine compound of Formula (I), where R' is -CH 3.
                                                      91

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with (-NHCOCH 3) is prepared from
    the corresponding amine compound of Formula (I), employing methods known to one skilled in
    the art, such as but not limited to, treatment with an acyl chloride or anhydride. For example, a
    compound of Formula (I) where R 2 is substituted with (-NH 2), is treated with an appropriately
  5 activated acylating agent, such as but not limited to, acetyl chloride, acetic anhydride and the
    like, in a solvent such as, DCM, DMF and the like, with a base, such as TEA, DIPEA, and the
    like, at temperatures ranging from 0 'C to room temperature, for a period of up to 24 h, provides
    an acyl subsituted amine compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is (-NHCOCH 3).
             A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with (-NHCONH 2) is prepared from
 .0 a corresponding amine compound of Formula (I), employing methods known to one skilled in
    the art, such as but not limited to, treatment with potassium cyanate and the like, in a solvent
    such as, acetic acid and water or a mixture thereof, at temperatures ranging from room
    temperature to 60 'C, for 0.2 to 4 h, to provide a urea subsituted compound of Formula (I),
    where R 2 is (-NHCONH 2). Optionally, a compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with
 .5 (-NHCONH-oxetane)        is prepared from the corresponding carboxylic acid compounds of
    Formula (I), using the Curtuis rearrangement employing methods known to one skilled in the
    art. For example, a compound of Formula (I) where R 2 is substituted with (-CO 2 H), are treated
    with, but not limited to, diphenylphosphoryl azide and the like, in the presence of a base, such as
    TEA, DIPEA, and the like, in an appropriate solvent such as, toluene, 1,-4-dioxane, and the like,
  o at the reflux temperature of the solvent, for a period of up to 1 h. The intermediate acyl azide is
    then reacted with an appropriate amine, in the presence of a base, such as TEA, DIPEA, and the
    like, to afford a compound of Formula (I) where R2 is substituted with (-NHCONH-oxetane).
             A compound of Formula (I), where R2 is substituted with -NO 2 , is reacted with a
    commercially available or synthetically accessible metallo-alkoxide, for example, sodium
25  methoxide, sodium ethoxide and the like, in a solvent such as, but not limited to, MeOH, EtOH,
    1,4-dioxane and the like, at temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux
    temperature of the solvent, for a period of 24 h, to provide a compound of Formula (I) where R 2
    is substituted with (-OC 1 .3alkyl).
             A compound of Formula (I), wherein R 2 is 1,2,3-triazole optionally substituted with -H,
30  is synthesized from the corresponding 4-(trimethylsilyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl) compounds of
    Formula     (I),  by reacting     with  a  desilylating  agent,  such   as  but  not   limited to,
    tetrabutylammonium fluoride, in a solvent such as THF, DMF, and the like, at temperatures
    ranging from room temperature to 50 'C, for a period of 8 to 24 h.
             A compound of Formula (I), where R 2 is substituted with -CHO, is prepared from the
35  corresponding alcohols or esters, previously described using methods known to those skilled in
                                                      92

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    the art. For example, treating an alcohol of Formula (I) with an oxidizing agent, such as but not
    limited to Dess-Martin* reagent, in an appropriate solvent, such as DCM or THF and the like, at
    room temperature for 3 to 8 h give the desired aldehyde. The desired aldehyde of Formula (I) is
    also obtained by treating the corresponding ester of Formula (I) with a reducing agent, such as
  5 DIBAL, in an appropriate solvent, such as THF, Et 2 0 and the like, at low temperature,
    preferably -78 'C, for 1 to 4 h.
              Removal of the tert-butylcarbamate (BOC) or paramethoxybenzyl (PMB) in a compound
    of Formula (I) where R2 is optionally substituted with (-NH-BOC), (-HET-N-BOC), (-NH
    PMB) is accomplished by using methods known to one skilled in the art, such as, HCI, TFA, or
 .0 p-toluenesulfonic       acid, in a solvent such as CH 3 0H, dioxane, or CH 2 CI 2. In a preferred
    embodiment, a compound of formula is treated with TFA in DCM or HCI to afford a compound
    of Formula (I) where R2 is optionally substituted with (-NH 2) or (-HET-NH 2).
                                                   SCHEME F
                               1) Bromination                                                    1
                          U   2) HET                             Suzuki                       N       R2
                               K2C0 3                       HETHET
                               or Cs2COs                                                 R4 0      Z
                                  R40C        , R40              or Buchwald coupling           R3
                      Br      or                      Br
                     (VI)     HET                    (X(I)
                              K2C03
                              or Cs2CO3
 .5           According to Scheme F, a compound of formula (VI) where U is -CH 3; R1 is H, R4 is
    C1. 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, is halogenated according to methods previously described to provide
    the corresponding alkylbromide compound. Subsequent reaction with HET, where HET is an
    optionally substituted five membered heteroaryl ring selected from, but not limited to, 1H-1,2,4
    triazole or imidazole, according to methods previously described, provides a compound of
20  formula (XII) where HET is an optionally substituted five membered heteroaryl ring.
              According to Scheme F, a compound of formula (XII) where HET is an optionally
    substituted five membered heteroaryl ring is prepared from a compound of formula (VI) where
    U is -CH 2Cl, R 1 is H, R 4 is -CI 3 alkyl or -C1. 3haloalkyl, employing methods previously
    described. For example, reaction of (5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol with an optionally
25  substituted five membered heteroaryl ring, a base such as K2 C0 3 , Cs 2 CO 3 , and the like, with or
    without Nal, in a solvent such as DCM, CHCl 3 , ACN, and the like, at temperatures ranging from
    rt to the reflux temperature of the solvent, provides a compound of formula (XII).
              A compound of formula (XII), where HET is five membered heteroaryl ring optionally
    substituted with a -CO 2 CI 3 alkyl or C(=O)H moiety, is reduced, employing methods known to
30  one skilled in the art or previously described, to provide a compound of formula (XII), where the
                                                       93

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    HET is substituted with -CH 2OH.          For example, methyl 1-((5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate is reacted with        a reducing agent such as LiBH 4,
    NaBH 4, and the like, in a solvent such as THF, MeOH, and the like, at temperatures ranging
    from 0 'C to rt, for a period of 1 to 5 h, to provide a compound of formula (XII) where HET is
  5 substituted with -CH 2OH.
            A compound of formula (XII), where HET is five membered heteroaryl ring optionally
    substituted with a -NO 2 moiety, is reduced, employing methods known to one skilled in the art
    or previously described, to provide a compound of formula (XII), where the HET is substituted
    with -NH 2.
 .0         A compound of formula (XII) is reacted, employing standard Suzuki coupling
    conditions, known to those skilled in the art and previously described herein, with commercially
    available aromatic or heteroaromatic boronic acids or esters, or synthetically accessible
    heteroaromatic boronic esters, such as compound (IV), to give a compound of Formula (I).
            Optionally, a compound of Formula (I), where R3 is substituted with pyrazole is prepared
 .5 from the corresponding compounds of formula (XII), employing methods known to one skilled
    in the art, such as but not limited to, Buchwald coupling conditions. For example, a compound
    of formula (XII) is reacted with the appropriate heterocycle (HET) with an acidic proton, such as
    but not limited to, pyrazole, in a solvent, such as toluene, 1,4-dioxane, and the like, with a
    suitable base, such as sodium tert-butoxide, sodium methoxide, a palladium catalyst such as but
  o not limited to, Pd 2(dba) 3 , Pd(OAc) 2 and the like, and a phosphine ligand, such as (2
    dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, tri(tert-butyl)phosphine and the like,
    at temperatures ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the solvent, for
    period of 4 to 48 h, to provide a compound of Formula (I), where insert R3 is an optionally
    substituted pyrazole.
25          Compounds of Formula (I) may be converted to their corresponding salts using methods
    known to those skilled in the art. For example, compounds of Formula (I) may be treated with
    TFA, HCl, maleic acid, or citric acid in a solvent such as Et 2 0, DCM, THF, or MeOH to provide
    the corresponding salt forms.
            Compounds prepared according to the schemes described above may be obtained as
30  single enantiomers, diastereomers, or regioisomers, by enantio-, diastereo-, or regiospecific
    synthesis, or by resolution. Where compounds according to this invention have at least one
    chiral center, they may accordingly exist as enantiomers.        Where compounds possess two or
    more chiral centers, they may additionally exist as diastereomers. It is to be understood that all
    such isomers and mixtures thereof are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.
35  Compounds prepared according to the schemes above may alternately be obtained as racemic
                                                     94

        WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    (1:1) or non-racemic (not 1:1) mixtures of mixtures as diastereomers or regioisomers. Where
    racemic and non-racemic mixtures of enantiomers are obtained, single enantiomers may be
    isolated using conventional separation methods known to one skilled in the art, such as chiral
    chromatography,      recrystallization, diastereomeric   salt  formation,    derivatization  into
  5 diastereomeric adducts, biotransformation, or enzymatic transformation. Where regioisomeric
    or diastereomeric mixtures are obtained, single isomers may be separated using conventional
    methods such as chromatography or crystallization.
            The following examples are provided to further illustrate the invention and various
    preferred embodiments.
 .0                                            EXAMPLES
    Chemistry:
            In obtaining the compounds described in the examples below, and the corresponding
    analytical data, the following experimental and analytical protocols were followed unless
    otherwise indicated.
 .5         Unless otherwise stated, reaction mixtures were magnetically stirred at room temperature
    (rt) under nitrogen atmosphere. Where solutions were "dried", they were generally dried over a
    drying agent such as Na 2 SO 4 or MgSO 4.         Where mixtures, solutions, and extracts were
    "concentrated", they were typically concentrated on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure.
            Reactions under microwave irradiation conditions were carried out in a CEM Discover
  0 SP with Activent microwave reaction apparatus, model number 909150, or Biotage Initiator,
    model number 355302.
            Normal-phase flash column chromatography (FCC) was performed on silica gel (SiO 2 )
    using packed or prepackaged cartridges, eluting with the indicated solvents.
            LC/MS were obtained on a Waters 2695 Separations Unit, 2487 Dual Absorbance
25  Detector, Micromass ZQ fitted with ESI Probe, or a Waters AcquityTM Ultra performance LC
    (UPLC) with PDA eX and SQ detectors.
            Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were obtained in a Varian 400 MHz or
    Bruker 400 MHz NMR.           Samples were analyzed in either deuterated chloroform (CDCl 3),
    methanol-d 4 (CD 3 0D),      or dimethyl    sulfoxide-d  (DMSO-d).        For CDCl 3 samples,
30  tetramethylsilane (TMS) was used as an internal standard with the TMS resonance set to a
    chemical shift of 0.00 ppm for 1H NMR spectra. For CD 30D the residual central resonance
    peak at 3.31 for 1H was used for chemical shift assignment and for DMSO-d the residual central
    resonance peak at 2.50 ppm for 1H was used for chemical shift assignment. The format of the
     H NMR data below is: chemical shift in ppm downfield the tetramethylsilane reference
35  (multiplicity, coupling constant J in Hz, integration).
                                                     95

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
            Chemical names were generated using ChemDraw Ultra 12.0 (CambridgeSoft Corp.,
    Cambridge, MA) or ChemAxon.
    Intermediate 1. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxypyrazine.
           N-       Br
         O      N
                    F
  5               0    F
    Step 1. 3-Bromo-5-methylpyrazin-2-amine.      To a cooled, 0 'C, solution of 5-methylpyrazin-2
    amine (5.00 g, 0.05 mol) in DCM (230 mL) was added 1-bromopyrrolidine-2,5-dione (8.97 g,
    0.05 mol) all at once. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and
    stirred for 12 h. The reaction was quenched with 1 N sodium thiosulfate (50 mL), the layers
 .0 were separated and the organic phase was extracted with water (2 X 50 mL). The combined
    organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 50%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a yellow solid
    (8.61 g, 65%). [M+H]   =   188.9/190.11
    Step 2.    3-Bromo-2-ethoxy-5-methylpyrazine.     To a solution of 3-bromo-5-methylpyrazin-2
 .5 amine (4.00 g, 21.27 mmol) in EtOH (42 mL), at 0 C, was added tert-butyl nitrite (7.65 mL,
    63.82 mmol) followed by 4 N HCl in 1,4-dioxane (1.91 mL, 7.66 mmol). The reaction mixture
    was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 8 h. The mixture was concentrated
    under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with aq. NaHCO 3 and extracted into DCM.
    The combined organic layers were dried, and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.
  o Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 20%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a white solid
    (2.5 g, 54%). [M+H]   =  217.06/219.05.
    Step 3. 3-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-methylpyrazine.        A solution of 3-bromo-2
    ethoxy-5-methylpyrazine (1.80 g, 8.29 mmol), 3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)boronic acid (2.03 g,
    10.78 mmol), Pd(PPh 3) 4 (958.25 mg, 0.83 mmol), Na 2 CO 3 (21.63 mL, 1.15 mol/L, 24.88 mmol),
25  in EtOH (22 mL) and toluene (118 mL), under nitrogen, was heated at 88 'C for 1h.              The
    reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.         Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 50%,
    EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a colorless oil (2.09 g, 90%). [M+H]      = 281.19.
    Step 4. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxypyrazine.        To a solution of 3
30  (3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-methylpyrazine        (2.00      g,    0.01     mol),     1
    bromopyrrolidine-2,5-dione (1.27 g, 0.01 mol) in carbon tetrachloride (24 mL), was added
    benzoylperoxide (0.26 g, 1.07 mmol). The mixture was heated at 88 'C for 8 h. The reaction
                                                   96

         WO 2014/158998                                                      PCT/US2014/021426
    mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were
    dried (Na 2SO 4) and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
    -  5 %,   EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound contaminated with ~10% starting material
    (1.5 g, 59 %). [M+H]       = 459.13/361.13.
  5
    Intermediates 2-3 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 1, Steps 3-4, with the
    appropriated starting material substitutions.
    Intermediate 2. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N            Br
 .0                 C1
    M+H]       =  312.05/314.04
    Intermediate 3. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyrazine.
          N-           Br
      0          N
                 I
                    CI
 .5 [M+H]       =  313.17/315.19
    Intermediate 4. 3-Bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridine.
     F2 HC   ,0
                   Br
    3-Bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridine.      To a solution of 3-bromo-5-methylpyridin-2
20  ol (25.0 g, 0.13 mol) in ACN (100 mL) was added 2,2-difluoro-2-(fluorosulfonyl)acetic acid
    (23.7 g, 0.13 mol) and Na 2 CO 3 (28.2 g, 0.270 mol). The reaction mixture was stirred at room
    temperature overnight. Water was added to the reaction mixture, and the reaction mixture was
    extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0    - 10%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
25  the title compound as an off-white solid (22 g, 70%). [M+H]   =  238.09/240.09.
    Intermediate 5. 5-((1H-1,2,4-Triazol-1-yl)methyl)-3-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine.
                                                    97

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
     F2HC   O            N
               Br
    Step 1. 3-Bromo-5-(bromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine.          To a solution of 3-bromo-2
    (difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridine (0.50 g, 2.1 mmol) in carbon tetrachloride (13 mL), was
    added 1-bromopyrrolidine-2,5-dione (0.521 g, 2.93 mmol), and azobisisobutyronitrile (44 mg,
  5 0.26 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 'C for 8 h. The reaction mixture was diluted
    with water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the
    solvent was removed under reduced pressure.              Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10 - 90%,
    EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (400 mg, 60 %). [M+H]        = 317.88.
    Step 2. 5-((1H-1,2,4-Triazol-1-yl)methyl)-3-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine.        To a solution
 .0 of 3-bromo-5-(bromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine (Intermediate 4, 0.50 g, 1.57 mmol),
    in acetone (12 mL), was added 1H-1,2,4-triazole (202 mg, 2.9 mmol), and K 2 C0      3 (650 mg, 4.7
    mmol). The reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 h, then filtered and concentrated
    under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 30 - 70%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title
    compound (431 mg, 90 %). [M+H]       = 304.91/306.91.
 -5
    Intermediate 6. 3-Bromo-2-ethoxy-5-methylpyridine.
            N
              Br
    To a solution of 3-bromo-2-chloro-5-methylpyridine (4.00 g, 19.37 mmol) in ethanol (100 mL)
    was added sodium ethoxide (6.59 g, 96.9 mmol) in three portions. The mixture was stirred
  0 under nitrogen at 100 'C for 2 days. The reaction was cooled to room temperature, diluted with
    water and extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the
    solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 20%, EtOAc/hexanes)
    afforded the title compound (3.00 g, 72%). 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 7.94 (dd, J             =  0.8,
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.89 - 7.82 (in, 1H), 4.31 (q, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.18 (t, J = 0.8 Hz, 3H), 1.30 (t, J=
25  7.0 Hz, 3H).
    Intermediate 7. 5-Bromo-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N ~Br
       N
       0
                 CI
                                                    98

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Step 1. 5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-amine.         A 10 mL microwave vial was charged
    with 5-bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-amine (2.00 g, 10 mmol) (3-chlorophenyl)boronic acid (1.87
    g, 12 mmol), Pd(dppf)C12 - DCM (365 mg, 0.45 mmol), ACN (6 mL) and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 (3
    mL). The vial was sealed, purged with nitrogen and heated at 110 'C for 15 min. The layers
  5 were separated and the aq. phase extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were
    dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 ,
    0 - 50%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (1.95 g, 84%) which was taken on
    directly to the next step.
    Step 2. 5-Bromo-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.         A solution of 5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6
 .0 methoxypyridin-3-amine (1.95 g, 8.39 mmol), copper (II) bromide (3.72 g, 16.7 mmol), tert
    butyl nitrite (1.7 g, 16.7 mmol) in ACN (50 mL), under nitrogen, was heated at 60 'C for 12 h.
    The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure.         Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
    10%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as an orange solid (1.53 g, 61%). [M+H]            =
    298.20/300.21.
 -5
    Intermediate         8.          3-(Chloromethyl)-5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylpyridine.
         N          CI
                 CI
    Step      1.       6-Amino-5-bromo-2-methylnicotinonitrile.        A    solution    of  6-amino-2
    methylnicotinonitrile (5 g, 37.6 mmol), NBS (7.36 g, 41.3 mmol) and DCM (100 mL) was
20  stirred at room temperature for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced
    pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 1:1 EtOAc/DCM) afforded the title compound as tan solid
    (4.5 g, 56%). [M+H]       = 211.95/213.96.
    Step 2.      5-Bromo-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinonitrile.       A solution of 6-amino-5 -bromo-2
    methylnicotinonitrile (4.5 g, 21.2 mmol), HCl (2 mL 4 N HCl in 1,4-dioxane), tert-butyl nitrite
25  (6.56 g, 63.7 mmol) and methanol (50 mL) was heated at 60 'C for 12 h. The solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 25%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    the title compound (2.5 g, 51 %). [M+H]     = 226.96/228.96.
    Step 3. 5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinonitrile.        A 20 mL microwave vial was
    charged      with     5-bromo-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinonitrile    (1.2   g,    5.28   mmol),    (3
30  chlorophenyl)boronic acid (990 mg, 6.3 mmol), Pd(dppf)C12 - DCM (191 mg, 0.26 mmol), ACN
    (10 mL) and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 (3 mL). The vial was sealed, purged with nitrogen and heated at
    100 C under microwave irradiation for 10 min. The layers were separated and the aq. phase
                                                      99

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 5 0%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    the title compound as an off white solid (995 mg, 74 %). [M+H]      = 259.06.
    Step 4. 5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinaldehyde.          To a cooled solution, -78 C,
  5 of 5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinonitrile (500 mg, 1.9 mmol) in DCM (15 mL),
    under nitrogen, was added DIBAL (1 M in hexanes, 4.8 mL, 4.8 mmol) drop-wise, over 3
    minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at -78 C for 1 h. The reaction was carefully quenched
    by addition of saturated sodium fluoride (1 mL). After stirring for 30 minutes the suspension
    was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
 .0 50%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (358 mg, 72 %). [M+H]          = 262.05.
    Step 5. (5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylpyridin-3-yl)methanol.          To a solution of 5-(3
    chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylnicotinaldehyde (350 mg, 1.34 mmol) in methanol (3 mL)
    was added NaBH 4 (52 mg, 1.3 mmol).         The solution was stirred at room temperature for 20
    minutes then concentrated under reduced pressure.           Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 50%,
 .5 EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (322 mg, 91 %). [M+H]         = 264.06.
    Step 6. 3-(Chloromethyl)-5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylpyridine.          Into a scintillation
    vial containing (5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylpyridin-3-yl)methanol         (340 mg, 1.29
    mmol) in DCM (5 mL), was added diisopropylethylamine (199 mg,                    1.54 mmol), and
    methanesulfonyl chloride (147 mg, 1.29 mmol). The solution was stirred at room temperature
  0 for 1 h. The reaction mixture was extracted with water (3 x). The combined organic layers were
    dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 ,
    0 - 30%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (87 mg, 24 %). [M+H]         = 282.03
    Intermediate 9. 2-Difluoromethoxy-4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-[1,3,2]dioxaborolan-2-yl)-pyridine.
     O B O
                F
25      N0        F
    Step 1.       4-Bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine.     To a stirring solution of 2-chloro-2,2
    difluoroacetate (6.00 g, 39.4 mmol) in ACN (200 mL) was added 4-bromopyridin-2(1H)-one
    (4.90 g, 28.1 mmol). The mixture was refluxed for 8 h. The resulting mixture was filtered and
    the filtrate was extracted with hexanes (6 x 20 mL). The combined organic layers were dried
30  (Na 2 SO 4 ), and concentrated at room temperature to give the title compound as a liquid (2.60 g,
    42% yield). 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.19-8.20 (s, 1H), 7.48 (s, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.54
    -7.88 (in, 1H).
                                                    100

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Step 2.     2-Difluoromethoxy-4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-[1,3,2]dioxaborolan-2-yl)-pyridine.       To a
    solution of 4-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine (7.20 g, 32.1 mmol),            in 1,4-dioxane (230
    mL), was added bis(pinacolato)diboron (8.80 g, 34.6 mmol), and potassium acetate (7.10 g, 71.9
    mmol).     The flask was fitted with a reflux condenser and vacuum/nitrogen inlet, and it was
  5 degassed/backfilled with nitrogen (3 X).        The catalyst, Pd(dppf)Cl 2 (2.35 g, 3.2 mmol) was
    added, and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 8 h. The resulting mixture was filtered, and
    concentrated under reduced pressure.        Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 1:1 petroleum ether/hexanes)
    afforded the title compound (6.10 g, 70%) as a liquid. 'H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.31
    8.32 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.52-7.89 (m, 1H), 7.42-7.44 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.156 (s, 1H), 1.32 (s,
 .0 12H).
    Intermediate 10. 5-(Bromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl)pyridine.
       F    N5       Br
        FKO
    Step 1. 3-(2-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)phenol.          A 20 mL microwave vial was
 .5 charged with 3-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridine           (Intermediate 4, 1.90 g, 7.98
    mmol), 3-hydroxyphenylboronic acid (1.32 g, 9.58 mmol), Pd(dppf)Cl 2 (330 mg, 0.40 mmol),
    Na 2 CO 3 (2.12 g, 19.96 mmol), water (4.0 mL), and ACN (12 mL). The vial was sealed, purged
    with nitrogen, and heated under microwave irradiation at 100 'C for 15 min.             The reaction
    mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM (3 X). The combined organic phase
  0 was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 ,
    0-40% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (1.81 g, 91%) as a colorless waxy solid.
    [M+H]    = 252.12.
    Step 2. 2-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-methyl-3-(3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl)pyridine.          To a solution of
    3-(2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)phenol (502.5 mg, 2.0 mmol), in DMF, was added
25  oxetan-3-yl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate (685 mg, 3.0 mmol), and K2 C0          3 (553 mg, 4.00 mmol).
    The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 'C for 8 h. LC-MS suggested about 50 % conversion.
    The temperature was raised to 90 C and the reaction mixture was stirred an additional 4 h. Sat.
    aq. NaCl was added, and the mixture was extracted with DCM (3 X).             The combined organic
    layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification
30  (FCC, Si0 2 , 10-30% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (310 mg, 50%) as a colorless
    solid. [M+H]   = 308.11
                                                       101

        WO 2014/158998                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Step 3.      5-(Bromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl)pyridine.   To a
    solution of 2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-methyl-3-(3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl)pyridine    (310 mg, 1.0
    mmol) in carbon tetrachloride (10 mL), was added 1-bromopyrrolidine-2,5-dione (180 mg, 1.0
    mmol), and benzoylperoxide (37 mg, 0.15 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C for
  5 8 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM.        The combined
    organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10 - 30%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (140 mg, 36
    %). [M+H] = 387.21
 .0 Intermediate 11. 5-(Bromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-isopropoxyphenyl)pyridine.
       F     N"         Br
     F    O
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 10, using 2
    bromopropane for step 2, followed by bromination according to step 3. [M+H]  = 373.24.
 .5 Intermediate 12. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine.
       F     N*         Br
     F    O'
                    C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 10, using Intermediate
    4 and 3-chlorophenyl boronic acid in Step 1, followed by bromination according to Step 3.
    [M+H]     = 348.17/350.15
20
    Intermediate 13. 5-((1H-1,2,4-Triazol-1-yl)methyl)-3-bromo-2-methoxypyridine.
         N                 N
                    Nz:::/
            Br
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 5, with the appropriate
    starting material substitutions. [M+H]  = 269.21/271.23
25
    Intermediate 14. Ethyl 5-bromo-6-ethoxynicotinate.
                                                   102

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
                    0
            N
               Br
    Step 1. 5-Bromo-6-chloronicotinoyl chloride. To a solution of 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinic acid
    (10.00 g, 42.29 mmol) in DCM (211.46 mL) was added oxalyl dichloride (42.29 mL, 84.58
    mmol) and a few drops of DMF. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h.
  5 The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the crude title compound (9.0 g,
    83%). The crude material was used without further purification. [M+H]     = 253.2/255.2/257.2.
    Step 2. Ethyl 5-bromo-6-ethoxynicotinate.     To a slurry of 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinoyl chloride
    (5.00 g, 19.62 mmol) in EtOH (100 mL) was added sodium ethoxide (22.0 mL, 21.00 %w/w,
    58.85 mmol).      The reaction mixture was stirred in room temperature for 75 minutes.          The
 .0 product crystallized out after the addition of 2 volumes of water in an ice bath. The solid was
    filtered, washed with hexanes and water to obtain the title compound (4.5 g, 84%). 1H NMR
    (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.66 (br s, 1H), 8.34 (br s, 1H), 4.48 - 4.37 (in, 2H), 4.37 - 4.16 (in, 2H),
    1.32 (td, J= 6.9, 18.7 Hz, 6H); [M+H]    = 274.3/276.3.
 .5 Intermediate 15. Methyl 5-bromo-6-methoxynicotinate.
                  0
       N            O
       01
            Br
    To a slurry of methyl 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinate (10.00 g, 39.92 mmol) in MeOH (80.00 mL)
    was added sodium methoxide (2.59 g, 47.91 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred in rt for 2
    h. The product crystallized out. The slurry was cooled to 0 'C and water (80 mL) was added
20  and stirred for 30 min., then filtered. The solid cake was washed with water and dried to afford
    the title compound (9.05 g, 92 %). [M+H]    =  246.2.
    Intermediate 16. (5-Bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
            NOH
               Br
25  A solution of ethyl 5-bromo-6-ethoxynicotinate (Intermediate 14, 1.06 g, 3.85 mmol) in 2
    methoxy-2-methylpropane (10.50 mL) was cooled to 0 'C and DIBAL (9 mL, 9.00 mmol) was
    slowly added while keeping the temperature under 25 C. After the addition was complete, the
    mixture was stirred at room temperature for 45 minutes. The reaction was cooled to 0 'C, then
    quenched with aq NaOH (5.78 mL, 11.56 mmol) and stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
                                                    103

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    mixture was diluted with MTBE and water, then extracted into MTBE. The combined organic
    extracts were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the
    title compound (0.87 g, 97%) as a white solid. The crude material was used without further
    purification. [M+H]       = 232.3/234.3.
  5
    Intermediate 17. 3-Bromo-5-(chloromethyl)-2-ethoxypyridine.
            N.
         0o N           C1
               Br
    A solution of (5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol (13.44 g, 57.91 mmol) in DCM (250
    mL) was cooled to 0 'C and thionyl chloride (6.74 mL, 92.63 mmol) was slowly added. After
 .0 the addition was complete, the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The
    reaction mixture was diluted with DCM (250 mL), and the pH was adjusted to basic pH with a
    sat. aq. solution of NaHCO 3 . The crude product was extracted into DCM (3 x 250 mL) and the
    combined organic extracts were washed with water (100 mL). The organics were dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound (13.6 g,
 .5 94%). The crude material was used without further purification. [M+H]        =  250.2/252.2.
    Intermediate         18.    Methyl    1-((5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3
    carboxylate.
          O                N    0
               Br
-0  A solution of 3-bromo-5-(chloromethyl)-2-ethoxypyridine (13.60 g, 54.29 mmol), CHCl3 (250
    mL), 18-Crown-6 (12.20 g, 46.14 mmol), K 2 C0       3 (15.01 g, 108.57 mmol) and methyl 1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate (10.70 g, 84.18 mmol) was stirred at 35 'C for 17 h. Celite* was added
    to the reaction and the mixture concentrated in vacuo to give the crude material fused to Celite*.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10-100% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (11.76 g, 64%).
25  [M+H]     =  341.3/343.3.
    Intermediate        19.  (1-((5-Bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol.
                           N   OH
               Br
     (1-((5-Bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol.           A solution of
30  methyl      1-((5-bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate       (11.76  g,
                                                      104

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    34.47 mmol) in THF (100 mL) was cooled to 0 C, LiBH 4 (787.00 mg, 36.13 mmol) added and
    the mixture was warmed to 25 'C over 3 h. Water (10 mL), IN NaOH (10 mL) and Celite* were
    added to the reaction and the mixture concentrated in vacuo to give the crude material fused to
    Celite*.    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-15% MeOH/DCM) afforded the title compound (9.36 g,
  5 87%) as a white solid. [M+H]      = 313.3/315.3.
    Intermedate 20. (5-Bromo-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
              N         OH
                 Br
    Step 1. 5-Bromo-6-propoxynicotinic acid. A mixture of 5-bromo-6-chloronicotinic acid (2.00
 .0 g, 8.46 mmol), propan-1-ol (10 mL, 133.69 mmol) and Cs 2 CO 3 (5.51 g, 16.92 mmol) were
    irradiated in a microwave at 120 'C for 1h. The mixture was additionally irradiated a further 8 h
    at 120 'C. The mixture was diluted with DCM (100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer
    was made acidic with 1 N aq. HCl, and extracted into DCM (3 x 100 mL). The combined
    organic extracts were washed with sat. aq. NaCl (100 mL), dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and
 .5 concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound (2.04 g, 93%) as a cream solid.
    The crude material was used without further purification.        1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6
    13.30 (s, 1H), 8.59 - 8.76 (m, 1H), 8.35 (d, J     =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.45 (m, 2H), 1.61 - 1.86
    (m, 2H), 0.99 (t, J   = 7.43 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   =  260.3/262.3.
    Step 2. (5-Bromo-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.          A mixture of 5-bromo-6-propoxynicotinic
  0 acid (1.61 g, 6.19 mmol), THF (15.06 mL) and TEA (1.73 mL, 12.38 mmol) was cooled to 0 C,
    methyl chloroformate (0.72 mL, 9.29 mmol) added and the mixture stirred at 0 'C for 2 h. The
    mixture was filtered, (the solid) rinsed with more THF (20 mL), cooled to 0 'C, NaBH 4 (0.47 g,
    12.38 mmol) added and the mixture stirred at 0 'C for 90 min. LiBH 4 (0.18 g, 8.05 mmol) was
    added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 17 h. The reaction mixture was diluted
25  with DCM (100 mL) and water (100 mL), the layers separated and the aqueous layer extracted
    into DCM (3 x 80 mL). The extracts were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, Celite* added and the solvent
    removed to give the crude alcohol fused to Celite*. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 5-40%
    EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (966 mg, 63%). [M+H]           = 246.3/248.3.
30  Intermediate 21. (5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
                                                      105

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
                N         OH
             F
                    F
    Nitrogen gas was bubbled through a solution of (5-bromo-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol
    (Intermeidate 20, 483 mg, 1.96 mmol), (3,4-difluorophenyl)boronic acid (464.8 mg, 2.94 mmol),
    K 2 C0  3  (813.7 mg, 5.89 mmol) in water (2.9 mL), Pd(dppf)C12 (215.4 mg, 0.29 mmol) added and
  5 the mixture irradiated with stirring in a microwave at 120 'C for 20 minutes. Celite* was added
    to the reaction and the mixture concentrated in vacuo to give the crude material fused to Celite*.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 5-100% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (547 mg, 100%).
    [M+H]      =  280.4.
 .0 Intermediate 22. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-propoxypyridine.
                N-       CI
            F
                   F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 17, substituting (5-(3,4
    difluorophenyl)-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol          (Intermediate  21)    for    (5-bromo-6
    ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol. [M+H]       = 298.4.
 -5
    Intermediate 23. (5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
          N           OH
             Br
    To a solution of methyl 5-bromo-6-methoxynicotinate (8.00 g, 32.51 mmol) in THF (162.56
    mL) was added LiBH 4 (1.06 g, 48.77 mmol).            MeOH (40.64 mL) was slowly added to the
20  reaction, with vigorous stirring. The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h.
    2N NaOH was added to the reaction mixture the mixture was stirred at room temp for 1 h. The
    crude mixture was added to EtoAc and H 2 0, the organic layer was separated, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 ) afforded the title
    compound (6.00 g, 84%). [M+H]       = 218.2.
25
    Intermediate 24. (5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
                                                      106

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
          N         OH
       0
             F
    A solution of (5-bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol (Intermediate 23, 2.45 g, 11.24 mmol),
    (4-fluorophenyl)boronic acid (1.97 g, 14.05 mmol), Na 2 CO 3 (29.31 mL, 1.15 mol/L, 33.71
    mmol)       and Pd(dppf)C12 (822.15 mg, 1.12 mmol) in ACN (74.91 mL) was heated under
  5 microwave conditions at 120 'C for 20 min. The aq. layer was removed and the organic layer
    was dried (Na2 SO 4 ). The Na 2 SO 4 was washed with EtOAc (3 x 15 mL).       Purification (FCC,
    SiO 2 , 10% MeOH /90% EtOAc) afforded the title compound (2.0 g, 76%). [M+H]        = 234.50.
    Intermediate 25. 3-Bromo-5-(chloromethyl)-2-methoxypyridine
 .0          Br
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 17 using Intermediate
    23. [M+H]     =  235.9/237.9.
    Intermediate 26. 3-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-(chloromethyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N        CI
       0
                 C1
 .5         F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 17. [M+H]      = 286.25.
    Intermediate 27. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
         oN         O~
           00
             Br
20  To a mixture of 6-methoxy nicotinaldehyde (24 g, 0.175 mol) and NaOAc (28.7 g, 0.35 mol) in
    HOAc (180 mL) was added Br 2 (42 g, 0.263 mol) over 20 min. The mixture was stirred and
    heated to 90 'C for 5 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and poured to iced water. The resultant
    mixture was neutralized to pH 9 with saturated aq. NaOH (10 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (2
    x 100 mL).        The organic layer was washed with brine (100 mL), filtered, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
25  filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound (7 g, 22%). The
                                                   107

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    title compound was used crude in the next step without further purification.        1H NMR (400
    MHz, CDCl 3) 6 9.93 (s, 1H), 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.31 (s, 1H), 4.12 (s, 3H).
    Intermediate 28. 5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxynicotinaldehyde.
          N       O1
                  0
       0
  5            C
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 1, Step 3, employing 5
    bromo-6-methoxynicotinaldehyde and 3-chlorophenylboronic acid in THF/water, at 75 'C under
    N 2 overnight. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 10.03 (s, 1 H), 8.65 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1 H), 8.09 (d, J
    =  2.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.57, (d, J= 0.88 Hz, 1 H), 7.42-7.46 (m, 1 H), 7.36-7.41 (in, 2 H), 4.09 (s, 3 H).
 -0
    Intermediate 29. (5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
          N       OH
       0
               C1
    To a solution of 5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxynicotinaldehyde (18 g, 0.072 mol) in EtOH (150
    mL) was added NaBH 4 (5.5 g, 0.144 mol) at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room
 .5 temperature under N 2 for 2 h. To the mixture was added HCl (1 M, 5 mL) dropwise, followed by
    water (100 mL) at 0 C. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc (2 x 100 mL). The organic
    layers were combined, washed with brine (100 mL), dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated
    under reduced pressure to afford the title compound (16.2 g, 90 %) as a yellow solid, which was
    used for next step without further purified.
20
    Intermediate 30. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
         N        CI
       0
               C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 17, employing (5-(3
    chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.       1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.17 (d, J =2.0
25  Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J=2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.55-7.66 (d, J=2.0 Hz, 1H) 7.35-7.44 (in, 3H), 4.61 (s, 2H),
    3.99 (s, 3H).
                                                    108

       WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
    Intermediate 31.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaboro       lan-2
    yl)methyl)pyridine.
       O
        ~    -
                      O
                       0
      00
                  C1I
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 9, employing 5
  5 (chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine,           substituting K 2 C0 3 and Pd(PPh 3) 4 (114
    mg, 0.10 mmol) for potassium acetate and Pd(dppf)C 2. IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.00 (d,
    J =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (t, J      = 1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.42-7.47 (in, 2H), 7.29-7.37 (in, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H),
    2.24 (s, 2H), 1.26 (s, 12H).
 -0
    Intermediate 32. 3-Bromo-2-ethoxy-5-((5-methyl-iH-tetrazol-1-yl)methyl)pyridine.
            N             N
               Br
    A solution of 3-bromo-5-(chloromethyl)-2-ethoxypyridine (2.84 g, 11.34 mmol), Nal (169.93
    mg, 1.13 mmol), K 2 C0       3 (3.13 g, 22.67 mmol) and 5-methyl-2H-tetrazole (1.91 g, 22.67 mmol)
 .5 in ACN (50 mL) was stirred at r for 72 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated
    under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , hexanes/EtOAc, 0-100%) provided the title
    compound as an oil (1.83 g, 54%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.04 (d, J                 = 2.35 Hz, 1H),
    7.74 (d, J    =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 5.40 (s, 2H), 4.44 (q, J  = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.54 (s, 3H), 1.43 (t, J =  7.04
    Hz, 3H).
20
    Intermediate 33. Ethyl 2-(2-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-tetrazol-5
    yl)acetate.
                         CH2CO 3Et
                          N
      O               NzN
                  CI
     The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 32, with the
25  appropriate starting material substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.16 (d, J           =  2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.55 (d, J      = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.50-7.52 (in, 1H), 7.34-7.38 (in, 3H), 5.59 (s, 2H), 4.20 (q, J=
    7.30 Hz, 2H), 4.00 (s, 3H), 3.97 (s, 2H), 1.27 (t, J= 7.24 Hz, 3H).
                                                         109

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    Intermediate 34. 3-Bromo-2-ethoxy-5-((5-methyl-2H-tetrazol-2-yl)methyl)pyridine.
            N              N
               Br
    Isolated from Intermediate 32 reaction. White solid (1.32 g, 39%) 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )
  5 6 8.16 (d, J    =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.87 (d, J =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 5.61 (s, 2H), 4.44 (q, J = 7.04 Hz, 2H),
    2.53 (s, 3H), 1.39-1.49 (m, 3H).
    Intermediate        35.      (1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazol-4
    yl)methanol.
         N          NOHN
  0         Br
    Step 1.       1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazole-4-carbaldehyde.
    3-Bromo-5-(chloromethyl)-2-methoxypyridine (Intermediate 25, 630 mg, 2.66 mmol) in acetone
    (10 mL) was added Cs 2 CO 3 (1.32 g, 4.0 mmol) and Nal (39.93 mg, 0.27 mmol). The reaction
    mixture was allowed to stir for 3 h. The mixture was diluted with DCM and filtered. The filtrate
 .5 was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification
    (FCC, SiO 2 , 20 - 100%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as which was directly
    taken into the next step.
    Step 2. (1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)methanol.              1
    ((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazole-4-carbaldehyde               (347   mg,
20  1.12 mmol) in MeOH (5 mL) was added NaBH 4 (42.33 mg, 1.22 mmol). The reaction mixture
    was allowed to stir at room temperature for 0.5 h. The mixture was diluted with water and
    extracted into DCM. The organic fractions were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and the solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 50 - 100%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    the title compound.
25
    Intermediate 36. 1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
             N            N
      O_             Nzz
            Br           NH2
    Step     1. 3 -Bromo-2-methoxy-5 -((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1 -yl)methyl)pyridine.      The  title
    compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 5 with the appropriate starting
30  material substitutions.
                                                        110

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Step 2. 1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine. To a solution of
    3-bromo-2-methoxy-5-((3-nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)methyl)pyridine (1.0        g, 3.18 mmol) in
    AcOH (15 mL), and water (4 mL) was added zinc (2.07 g, 31.8 mmol). The mixture was stirred
    at 50 'C for 1 hr. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford a white solid. The
  5 crude solid was dissolved in DCM (50 mL), sonicated and filtered (repeated twice). The
    combined DCM extracts were washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 and the layers separated.                  The
    organic layers were combined, dried (Na 2SO 4) and concentrated under reduced pressure. The
    resulting solid was triturated with hexanes to give the title compound.
 .0 Intermediate 37. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile.
         N        CI
      10
           N     -N
    Step 1. 2'-Chloro-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-5-carbaldehyde. The title compound was prepared
    in a manner analogous to Intermediate 8 Step 3, employing 5-bromo-6-methoxynicotinaldehyde
    (Intermediate 27) and (2-chloropyridin-4-yl)boronic acid. [M+H]       = 249.25.
 .5 Step 2.    5-Formyl-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile.     Into a 10 mL microwave vial
    were added 2'-chloro-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-5-carbaldehyde            (684   mg, 2.75      mmol),
    dicyanozinc (226 mg, 1.93 mmol), Pd(PPh 3) 4 (318 mg, 0.28 mmol), and DMF (15 mL). The vial
    was capped, purged with nitrogen, then heated at 150 'C for 15 min. The reaction mixture was
    diluted with EtOAc and extracted with water. The remaining organic phase was treated with
  0 brine,   dried    (NaSO 4),   filtered and    concentrated.    Purification   (FCC,     SiO 2 , 0-75%
    EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (602.00 mg, 91%). [M+H]           = 240.28.
    Step 3.    5-(Hydroxymethyl)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile.      Into a 100 mL round
    bottomed flask containing 5-formyl-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile         (602 mg, 2.52
    mmol) was added MeOH (25 mL) followed by NaBH 4 (95 mg, 2.52 mmol). The rxn mixture
25  was stirred at rt for 10 min. The reaction was was quenched with HCl (1 mL), then concentrated.
    The residue was diluted with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 and EtOAc. The layers were separated, and the
    organic phase was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phase was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound (219 mg, 36%) as a white solid. The crude
    material was used without further purification. [M+H]     =  242.30.
30  Step 4.     5-(Chloromethyl)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile.       To a solution of 5
    (hydroxymethyl)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridine]-2'-carbonitrile      (219.3 mg, 0.91 mmol) in DCM
    (10 mL) was added thionyl chloride (130 pL, 1.82 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at rt
                                                     111

         WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    for 2.5 h then concentrated to afford the title compound as a yellow solid (0.2225 g, 94%).
    [M+H]     = 260.27.
    Intermediate 38. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2'-ethoxy-2-methoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.
         N'        C1
      '0
  5         N   O
    Step 1. (2'-chloro-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methanol.     The title compound was prepared
    in a manner analogous to Intermediate 8, Step 3, employing (5-bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl)methanol (Intermediate 23) and (2-chloropyridin-4-yl)boronic acid. [M+H]      = 251.30.
    Step 2. (2'-Ethoxy-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methanol.        A solution of (2'-chloro-2
 .0 methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methanol (925 mg, 3.69 mmol) in 21% w/w NaOEt in EtOH (22
    mL) was heated at 75 'C for 8 h under nitrogen. The rxn mixture was cooled to rt, diluted with
    EtOAc, washed with IM citric acid (2 X), dried (Na 2 SO4 ), filtered and concentrated.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-75% EtOAc/hexanes afforded (0.499 g, 52 %) of the title compound
    as an amber oil. [M+H]      = 261.39.
 .5 Step 3. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2'-ethoxy-2-methoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.         A solution of (2'-ethoxy-2
    methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methanol     (499.30 mg, 1.92 mmol)          in DCM (10 mL) and
    tetrahydrofuran (5 mL) was cooled in an ice-water bath for 5 min. Thionyl chloride (0.35 mL,
    4.8 mmol) was added dropwise over 1 min. A white ppt formed immediately. The rxn mixture
    was stirred for 1 h at rt, then quenched with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 . The layers were separated, and the
  o aq. phase was extracted with DCM. The combined organic phase was dried (NaSO 4 ), filtered
    and concentrated to give (543 mg, 101 %) of the title compound as an amber oil. [M+H]             =
    278.38.
    Intermediate 39. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)-2'-ethoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.
                N'       C1
     F2 HCN      I"
25                 N  O
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 38, employing (5
    bromo-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol       and (2-chloropyridin-4-yl)boronic acid in
    Step 1. [M+H]     = 329.37.
30  Intermediate 40. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridine.
                                                     112

         WO 2014/158998                                                      PCT/US2014/021426
                      NC1
                           I
     F2HC     O
                        I
                          C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 38, employing (5
    bromo-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol and (2-chlorophenyl)boronic acid in Step 1.
    [M+H]     =  318.30.
  5
    Intermediate 41. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridine.
                             C1
     F3 C   0
                       C1
    Step 1. Methyl 5-bromo-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)nicotinate. To a solution of methyl 5-bromo-6
    chloronicotinate (3.00 g, 11.98 mmol) in THF (5 mL) was added 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (1.44 g,
 .0 14.37 mmol). The solution was cooled in an ice-water bath under nitrogen for 5 minutes, then
    potassium tert-butoxide (12.58 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 12.58 mmol) was added dropwise over 5
    minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h, then diluted with NaHCO 3 and EtOAc. The
    layers were separated, and the organic phase was washed with water, and brine. The combined
    organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure.
 .5 Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-15% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (2.355 g, 63%) as
    a white solid. [M+H]          = 314.22/317.22.
    Step 2. (5-Bromo-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol. To a cooled solution, 0 'C, of
    5-bromo-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)nicotinate     (2.36 g, 7.50 mmol) in THF (20 mL) under
    nitrogen, was added DIBAL (15.00 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 15.00 mmol) over 2 min. The reaction
20  mixture was allowed to warm to rt where it was stirred for 8 h. The rxn mixture was
    concentrated then diluted with DCM and stirred 48 h with IM NaOH (25 mL). The layers were
    separated, and the aq. phase was extracted with DCM. The combined organic phase was dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated to yield (2.778 g, 130 %) of the title compound as a
    colorless oil. [M+H]        = 286.23/288.23.
25  Step 3. (5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol.    To a solution of
    (5-bromo-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol     (1.50 g, 5.24 mmol) in ACN (10.0
    mL) was added 3-chloro-phenyl-boronic acid (902.02 mg, 5.77 mmol), Pd(dppf)C12 .DCM
    (42.82 mg, 0.05 mmol), and 2 M aq. Na 2 CO 3 (10.0 mL). The reaction mix was purged with
    nitrogen and heated under microwave irradiation for 30 min at 100           C. The layers were
                                                     113

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    separated, and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-50%
    EtOAc/ hexanes) provided the title compound (1.0937 g, 66) as an amber oil. [M+H]      =  318.30.
    Step 4. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridine.      To a cooled, 0
     C, solution of (5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methanol    (1.09 g, 3.4
  5 mmol) in DCM (15.0 mL), was added thionyl chloride (0.63 mL, 8.6 mmol) dropwise over 1
    min. A white ppt formed immediately. After stirring 1 h at rt, more thionyl chloride (300 PL)
    was added, and the reaction mixture was stirred for additional 8 h. The reaction was quenched
    with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 , the layers were separated, and the aq. phase was extracted with DCM.
    The combined organic phase was dried (NaSO 4 ), filtered and concentrated to afford (0.9143 g,
 .0 79 %) of the title compound as an amber oil. [M+H]    = 336.24.
    Intermediate 42. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.
          N,         C1
       0
                     F
             N   0      F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 38, Steps 1 and Step 3,
 .5 employing 2-(difluoromethoxy)-4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyridine      and (5
    bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol (Intermediate 23) in Step 1. [M+H]        =  301.04.
    Intermediate 43. 5-(Chloromethyl)-2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-ethoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.
             N          C1
                        F
               N     O     F
20  The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 38. [M+H]       = 315.05.
    Intermediate 44. Methyl 5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carboxylate.
          N                N
       0                N-     O
                 N           0
                  C1
25  Step 1.      5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile.    The
    title compound was prepared analogous to Intermediate 7, Step 1, employing 5-(chloromethyl)
    3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine      (Intermediate   30)   and  5-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2
                                                    114

         WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile, and substituting Pd(PPh 3) 4 for Pd(dppf)C12 - DCM.
    [M+H]     =  337.34.
    Step      2.          Methyl   5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carboxylate. To a cooled, 0 'C, solution of wet MeOH was added acetyl chloride (2.0 mL)
  5 dropwise over 5 min. The reaction mix was stirred an additional 35 min. at 0 'C, then added to
    5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile          (278.4    mg,
    0.83 mmol). The reaction mix was heated to 50 'C for 2.5 h. The rxn mixture was concentrated,
    diluted with EtOAc, neutralized with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 . The layers organic phase was separated,
    washed with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford
 .0 (277.5 mg, 91%) of the title compound as a colorless oil that contains some of the corresponding
    carboxylic acid. The title compound was used crude in the next step. [M+H]      = 370.37.
    Intermediate 45.       Methyl 5-((2-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)-2'-ethoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3
    fluoropicolinate.
                                 F
     F2 HC\O                 N     0
                                 0
 .5                 N   O
    Prepared in the same manner as Interemediate 44 using intermediate Intermediate 39. [M+H]          =
    448.39.
    Intermediate 46. 5-(Bromomethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxypyrazine.
            N          Br
              O   N
                     F
20             F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 1.
    Intermediate 47. 5-(Chloromethyl)-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N         CI
       0
            F
25  The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 17, employing (5-(4
    fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methanol.
                                                      115

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    Intermediate 48. 2-Chloro-5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl) pyrimidine.
                 N~     N
             O N     N     CI
         F
              F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 1, Step 3, employing 5
  5 (bromomethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxypyrazine             (Intermediate    46)     and    (2
    chloropyrimidin-5-yl)boronic acid, substituting aq. NaHCO 3 for Na 2 CO 3. IH NMR (400 MHz,
    CDCl 3) d 8.66 (s, 2H), 7.98-8.05 (m, 2H), 7.87-7.93 (m, 1H), 7.20-7.26 (m, 1H), 4.50 (q, J         =
    7.04 Hz, 2H), 4.10 (s, 2H), 1.47 (t, J = 7.04 Hz, 3H). [M+H]       = 363.4.
 .0 Intermediate       49.             Ethyl        2-(4- {[5-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate.
         N11
      0       Io           o
                 F
            F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 24, employing 5
    (chloromethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine                  and          (4-(2-ethoxy-2
 .5 oxoethyl)phenyl)boronic acid.    [M+H]    =  398.41.
    Intermediate        50.                Ethyl         2-(4- {[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate.
         N
                 C1
20  The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 24, employing
    Intermediate 30 and (4-(2-ethoxy-2-oxoethyl)phenyl)boronic acid.          [M+H] = 396.32.
    Intermediate 51. 2-Chloro-5-((5-(4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine.
                                                      116

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
      O              N    C1
           F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 24, employing
    Intermediate 47 and (2-chloropyrimidin-5-yl)boronic acid. [M+H]          = 330.40.
  5 Intermediate 52. 5-((5-Bromo-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
                        N    NH2
             Br
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, from 3-bromo-5
    (chloromethyl)-2-ethoxypyridine (Intermediate 17) and 2-aminopyrimidine-5-boronic acid.
 .0 Intermediate      53.         2-(5-((5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetonitrile.
        0
          ON                   N
           F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 7, from 5
    (chloromethyl)-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine          (Intermediate   47)   and  2-(5-(4,4,5,5
15  tetramethyl- 1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)acetonitrile.
    Intermediate     54.         2-(5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetonitrile.
         N             N       N
                C1
20  The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 10, Step 1, employing
    Intermediate        30       and      2-(5-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetonitrile, omitting water as a co-colvent.
                                                        117

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Intermediate 55.       tert-Butyl (5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2
    yl)carbamate.
                       N   N
                           H
                 Cl
    A     solution     of   3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2
  5 yl)methyl)pyridine (Intermediate 31, 127.7 mg, 0.36 mmol), tert-butyl (5-bromopyrazin-2
    yl)carbamate (126.53 mg, 0.46 mmol), K 2 CO 3 (98 mg, 0.70 mmol) and Pd(PPh 3) 4 (32.8 mg,
    0.03 mmol) in dioxane (3.00 mL) and water (600.00 pl) was heated at 110 'C overnight.
    Intermediate          56.      tert-Butyl     (5-((5-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
 .0 yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-yl)carbamate.
          N            N      O
      o                N   N    Oj
                           H
                 C1
            F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, employing 3-(3
    chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-(chloromethyl)-2-methoxypyridine (Intermediate 26) and tert-butyl (5
    (4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyrazin-2-yl) carbamate.
 -5
    Intermediate 57. 2-Bromo-5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazine.
          N           /N
                    N      Br
     C12
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 55, employing 3-(3
    chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4,4,5,5-tetramethyl- 1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)methyl)pyridine
20  (Intermediate 31) and 2-bromo-5-iodopyrazine.           1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.62 (d, J     =
    1.57 Hz, 1H), 8.29 (d, J= 0.78 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.47-7.56 (m, 2H), 7.31-7.43
    (m, 3H), 4.10 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H).
    Intermediate 58.        5-((6-Chloro-5-fluoropyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy
25  3,4'-bipyridine.
                                                       118

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
         NF
      0              N   C1
                   F
           N    O    F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 1, using Intermediate
    39, employing microwave heating, substituting sodium bicarbonate for sodium carbonate.
  5 Examples:
    Example     1.    5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carbonitrile.
             N            N
         0             N     N
                   0   F
    Into a 5 mL microwave vial was combined 5-(bromomethyl)-3-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2
 .0 ethoxypyrazine     (Intermediate    1, 176.00   mg,    0.49  mmol),    5-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2
    dioxaborolan-2-yl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile (124.55 mg, 0.54 mmol), EtOH (2.45 mL), benzene
    (7.00 mL), Pd(PPh 3) 4 (56.63 mg, 0.05 mmol), and aq. NaHCO 3 (1.38 mL, 1.15 mol/L, 1.59
    mmol).    The vial was sealed, purged with nitrogen and heated to 125 C under microwave
    conditions for 15 minutes. Water was removed from the reaction with a pipette, and the crude
 .5 reaction mixture was filtered thru CELITE*®, and washed with EtOAc (3 x 5 mL).                    The
    combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced
    pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 30%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a
    white solid (100 mg, 53 %).      1H  NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.94 (s, 2H), 8.17 (s, 1H), 7.95
    7.90 (in, 1H), 7.85 (t, J =  1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  =  2.3, 7.8 Hz, 1H),
20  7.04 - 6.61 (in, 1H), 4.49 (q, J   =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.30 - 4.25 (in, 2H), 1.44 (t, J   =  7.0 Hz, 3H).
    [M+H]   =  384.15.
    Example       2.      2-Chloro-5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine.
         N             N
      0N                 C1
                C1
25  To a solution of 5-(bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine          (Intermediate 2, 100
    mg, 0.321 mmol), (2-chloropyrimidin-5-yl)boronic acid (76 mg, 0.481 mmol) in ACN (3.2 mL)
    was added NaHCO 3 (417 mg, 1.282 mmol) and PdCI 2(dppf)-DCM (23 mg, 0.032 mmol). The
                                                     119

       WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    reaction was heated under microwave conditions, at 120 'C for 12 minutes. Water was removed
    from the reaction with a pipette, and the crude reaction mix was filtered thru CELITE@, and
    washed with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated
    onto silica. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 30-70% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (61
  5 mg, 55%). 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J                = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J  =
    2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (t, J     =  1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.36 (in, 3H), 3.83 (s 2H), 3.73 (s, 3H). [M+H]     =
    346.11.
    Example          3.         {2-[(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
 .0 yl)amino]ethyl}dimethylamine.
         N                 N       I
           O)           NN
                              H
                  C1
    To a solution of 2-chloro-5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine
    (Example 2, 50.00 mg, 0.14 mmol) in ACN (1.44 mL), was added N1,N1-dimethylethane-1,2
    diamine (0.03 mL, 0.29 mmol), and DIPEA (77.13 pL, 0.43 mmol). The reaction mixture was
 .5 heated at 180 'C for 15 minutes. EtOAc (5 mL) was added to the reaction mixture, and the
    reaction mixture was extracted with water (3 X). The combined organic layers were dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.          Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
    15% MeOH/DCM) afforded the title compound (15.6 mg, 28 %). 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO
    d6) 6 8.21 (s, 2H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.67 (br s, 2H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.51 - 7.34 (in, 2H), 6.79 (br s, 1H),
  0 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.72 (s, 2H), 2.42 - 2.37 (m, 4H), 2.17 (s, 6H). [M+H]      =  398.20.
    Example 4. 2-Methoxy-3-(6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         N           N'N
              '-N
                  0
    A      solution          of  5-((1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl)-3-bromo-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine
25  (Intermediate 13, 50 mg, 0.16 mmol), (6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)boronic acid (46 mg, 0.30 mmol),
    in EtOH (2.45 mL), benzene (7.00 mL), was combined with Pd(PPh 3)4 (27 mg, 0.02 mmol), and
    4 M aq. Na 2 CO 3 (3 mL) in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed, purged with nitrogen and
    heated under microwave conditions to 120 'C for 12 minutes. Water was removed from the
    reaction with a pipette, and the crude reaction mix was filtered thru CELITE@, and washed with
                                                        120

       WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    EtOAc (3 x 5 mL). The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and the solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 30-70% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    the title compound (11.9 mg, 25 %). 'H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 7.88 (s, 1H), 7.58 (d, J           =
    2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.41 (d, J    =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.24 (s, 1H), 6.91 - 6.84 (m, 2H), 5.93 (d, J = 4.3 Hz,
  5  1H), 4.69 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H), 3.14 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 298.02.
    Examples 5-12 were prepared analogous to procedures described in Examples 1 or 2, with the
    appropriate starting materials and reagent substitutions.
 .0 Example        5.         2-Methoxy-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         N
                   N'N
      O
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.65 (s, 1H), 8.18 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.95 (s, 1H), 7.70 (d, J           =
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.27 (m, 3H), 7.19 - 7.14 (m, 1H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 2.33 (s, 3H).
    [M+H]    = 281.36.
 -5
    Example 6. 2-Methoxy-3-(5-methylpyridin-3-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         N
                   N'N
         N             N
     H NMR (400 MHz,DMSO-d) 6 8.93 (s, 1H), 8.77 (s, 2H), 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.35 (d, J= 2.0 Hz,
    1H), 8.04 (s, 2H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 3.91 (s, 3H), 2.50 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 282.09.
20
    Example 7. 2-Methoxy-3-(2-methylpyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         N         N
      0                N
            N
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.77 - 8.63 (m, 2H), 8.37 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.04 (d, J            2.0
    Hz, 1H), 8.00 - 7.85 (m, 2H), 7.58 - 7.43 (m, 1H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 2.68 (s, 3H).
25  [M+H]    = 282.20.
    Example 8. {3-[2-Methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridin-3-yl]phenyl} methanol.
                                                     121

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
          N        N'N
                  OH
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.65 (s, 1H), 8.18 (d, J           = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (s, 1H), 7.70 (d, J
    =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.26 (m, 4H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 5.22 (t, J   =  5.7 Hz, 1H), 4.51 (d, J  = 5.9 Hz,
    2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 297.23.
  5
    Example 9. 3-(3-Methanesulfonylphenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N       N'N
       0-             N
                o
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.24 (d, J          =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s,
    1H), 7.94 (d, J   = 7.83 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (d, J  =  7.83 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (d, J  = 1.56 Hz, 1H), 7.65-7.72
 .0 (m, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.15 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 345.21.
    Example 10. 2-Methoxy-3-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N       NN
        f             N
          N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.44 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 8.26 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H),
15  8.01 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.70 (s, 1H), 7.22 (d, J  =  5.1 Hz, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 3.99
    (s, 3H), 2.42 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 282.31.
    Example 11. 2-Methoxy-3-(6-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N
                   N'N
             N
20   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.50 (s, 1H), 8.32 - 8.27 (m, 1H), 8.22 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.89
    (s, 1H), 7.68 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 7.56 (d, J   =  2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.26 (dd, J   = 5.1, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 5.37 (s,
    2H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 2.04 (s, 3H). [M+H]   =  282.39.
    Example 12. 2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
                                                      122

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
        F     N      N'N
     F<O                 N
     As a mixture of compounds, 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.72 - 8.61 (in, 1H), 8.00 - 7.96
    (in, 1H), 7.94 - 7.86 (m, 1H), 7.73 - 7.68 (in, 1H), 7.55 -7.51 (in, 1H), 7.40 - 7.33 (in, 1H), 7.32
    7.27 (in, 1H), 7.24 (d, J    =  7.8 Hz, 1H), 5.75 (s, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.44 (s, 1H), 2.35 (s, 3H).
  5 [M+H] = 317.15.
    Example 13.        5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
             N  Nz        N
              0   N     N      NH2
                     F
 -0
    To a solution of 5-((6-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carbonitrile (Example 1, 100.00 mg, 0.26 mmol) in MeOH (1.3 mL) was added aq. NaOH (0.78
    mL, 0.78 mmol), followed by H 2 0 2 (0.78 mL, 0.79 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at
    rt for 8 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated, and the precipitate filtered and washed with
 .5 water to obtain the title compound as a white solid (70 mg, 67%).       1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO
    d6) 6 8.93 (s, 2H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.12 (br s, 1H), 7.91 - 7.84 (in, 1H), 7.81 (t, J   =  1.8 Hz, 1H),
    7.72 (br s, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.44 - 7.02 (in, 2H), 4.42 (q, J =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.25 (s, 2H), 1.35 (t,
    J  =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =  402.26.
20  Example 14. [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanol.
                  OH
                           F
                  CI
    To a cooled solution, -78 'C, of 5-bromo-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine (Intermediate 7,
    1.5 g, 5 mmol) in THF (25 mL), under nitrogen, was added nBuLi (4.8 mL, 5.5 mmol) drop
    wise over 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at -78 C for 40 min. A solution of 4
25  fluorobenzaldehyde (744 mg, 6 mmol) in THF (2 mL) was added, and the reaction mixture was
    stirred an additional 30 min at -78 C. The reaction was quenched with sat. Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and
                                                     123

         WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
    concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-25% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    the title compound as a colorless solid (1.65 g, 96%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.11 (d, J
    =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (s, 1H), 7.47 - 7.29 (m, 5H), 7.07 (t, J   = 8.6 Hz,
    2H), 5.84 (s, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 344.18.
  5
    Examples 15-16 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 14, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example 15. 1-[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]-1-(4-fluorophenyl)ethan-1-ol.
              HO
          N
       0   1F
 .0              CI
    'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.16 (d, J          = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.43
    (m, 3H), 7.42 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 7.04 (t, J     =  8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 1.94 (s, 3H).   [M+H]  =
    358.21.
 .5 Example 16. [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)methanol.
                 OH
          NN
                         F
                 CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.38 (d, J          = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 8.16 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.58
    (m, 3H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.45 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 5.87 (s, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H). [M+H]   =  345.19.
20  Example                17.                         {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4
    fluorophenyl)methyl} (methyl)amine.
                 NH
          N1
       N
       0                 F
                 CI
    Step 1. 5-(Chloro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.          To a cooled
    solution,     0  'C,    of  [5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanol
                                                      124

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    (Example 14, 1.43 g, 4.17 mmol), in DCM (10 mL), was added thionyl chloride (744 mg, 6.25
    mmol) dropwise. The solution was allowed to warm up to room temperature, and stirred for 1 h.
    The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-10%
    EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound, which was used directly for the next step.
  5 Step 2.     {[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methyl}(methyl)amine.
    To a solution of 5-(chloro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine             (70
    mg, 0.193 mmol) in ACN (2 mL) was added K 2 CO 3 (53 mg, 0.39 mmol), Nal (5 mg, 0.03
    mmol), and methylamine (0.5 mL, 0.97 mmol). The reaction was sealed and heated at 45 'C for
    12 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-10% MeOH/DCM)
 .0 afforded the title compound (23 mg, 33%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.20 (d, J            =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.71 (s, 1H), 7.50 - 7.42 (m, 3H), 7.40 - 7.27 (m, 3H), 7.18 (t, J   =  8.8 Hz, 2H), 5.54 - 5.49
    (m, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 2.63 (s, 3H). [M+; loss of NHMe]= 326.14.
    Examples 18-19 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 17, with the appropriate
 .5 starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example 18. [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanamine.
               NH 2
         N~
                          F
               CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.17 (d, J         = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J =  2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H),
20  7.49 - 7.34 (m, 5H), 7.18 (m, 2H), 5.58 (s, 1H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+; loss of NH 2]   =  326.14.
    Example                 19.                        {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4
    fluorophenyl)methyl} dimethylamine.
               N
         N
                          F
               C1
25   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.28 (d, J        =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (s, 1H), 7.57 (dd, J  = 5.1, 8.6 Hz,
    2H), 7.50 (t, J  =  1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.43 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 7.18 (m, 2H), 5.51 - 5.38 (m, 1H), 3.90 (s,
    3H), 2.88 - 2.74 (m, 6H). [M+H]     = 371.20.
                                                      125

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 20. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[fluoro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine.
                F
          N
       O                 F
                CI
    To       a  solution   of   [5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanol
    (Example 14, 70 mg, 0.18 mmol) in DCM (1 mL) was added Deoxo-Fluor* (79 mg, 0.36
  5 mmol). The solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then concentrated under reduced
    pressure. Purification (FCC, Si0 2 , 0-10% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (21 mg,
    34%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.62 (d, J         = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.47
    - 7.31 (in, 5H), 7.15 (t, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 6.70 - 6.52 (in, 1H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]  =  346.17.
 .0 Example 21. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic acid.
          NI
                           OH
        O
                         0
                CI
    Step 1. Methyl 4-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)benzoate         was prepared in
    a manner analogous to Example 2 with the appropriate starting material substitution.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-50% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound. [M+H]         = 368.11
 .5 Step 2. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic          acid. To a solution of
    methyl 4-((5 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)methyl)benzoate (91 mg, 0.248 mmol) in
    MeOH (2 mL) was added 2 N aq. NaOH (2.0 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2
    h.    Solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the resulting solid was triturated with
    diethyl ether. The resulting white solid was dissolved in DCM and filtered to remove inorganic
20  solids. The filtrated was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound (74
    mg, 85%).     1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.96 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H),
    7.60 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.43 - 7.30 (in, 5H), 4.05 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =
    354.13.
25  Example 22. 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile.
       N   11-      j-N
       0
                            N
           I
                C1
                                                     126

       WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 22 was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 1, with the appropriate starting
    materials and reagent substitutions. [M+H]    =  338.10
    Example 23.       5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxylic
  5 acid.
         N              N
          ON                 OH
                C1
    A solution of 5-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile
    (Example 22, 30 mg, 0.0845 mmol) in MeOH (1.54 mL) was heated to 50 'C until the starting
    material dissolved.     1 N aq. NaOH (0.23 mL, 0.23 mmol) was added followed by H 2 0 2 (0.23
 .0 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 0.23 mmol) and the solution was heated at 50 'C for an additional 2 h. Water (5
    mL) was added and the reaction was filtered and washed with water (3 X 5 mL). A mixture of
    products were observed; 5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxylic     acid   (the   title compound)      and   5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxamide (Example 24, 4 mg, 13%).              The filtrated contained the
 .5 acid, and the water layer was acidified with concentrated HCl (3 drops) and extracted with DCM
    (3 X 20 mL).        The organic layers were combined, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), and concentrated under
    reduced pressure to afford the title compound (23 mg, 74%).         1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6
    8.86 (br s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J= 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J= 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.27 (in,
    3H), 4.14 (br s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =  356.13
 -0
    Example         24.           5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
         N              N
                     N       NH2
               N Z        0
                C1
    The title compound was made in a manner analogous to Example 13.               1H  NMR (400 MHz,
25  CD 30D) 6 8.83 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J     = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.54 (s, 1H), 7.47
    7.29 (in, 3H), 4.12 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 355.21.
    Examples 25, 27-30, 32-35, 37-43, 45-89, 91-108 were prepared analogous to procedures
    described in Examples 1 or 2, with the appropriate starting materials and reagent substitutions.
30
                                                       127

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 25. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
       O              N    NH2
                 C1
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.18 (s, 2H), 8.02 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.58 - 7.51 (m, 2H), 7.44
    -  7.31 (m, 3H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.82 (s, 2H). [M+H]  = 327.21.
  5
    Example 26. (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea.
          N                  0
                           N    NH2
                           H
                 C1
    Step 1.     3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(4-nitrobenzyl)pyridine.      The title compound was
    prepared in a manner analogous to Example 1, from Intermediate 2 and 4-nitrophenyl boronic
 .0 acid to afford a tan solid. [M+H]    = 355.07.
    Step 2.     4-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)aniline.     A solution of 3-(3
    chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(4-nitrobenzyl)pyridine (162 mg, 0.45 mmol), HOAc (3 mL), water
    (1 mL), and zinc (292.5 mg, 4.5 mmol) was heated at 60 'C for 1 h, then filtered hot through a 1
    cm pad of Celite* and used directly for the next step.
 .5 Step     3.     (4- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea.        4-((5-(3
    chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)aniline      solution from Step 2 was added KCNO
    (73 mg, 0.9 mmol). The mixture was sonicated for 20 min to afford a gummy ppt. The reaction
    mixture was diluted with water, neutralized with aq. Na 2CO 3 to pH 7, then extracted with EtOAc
    (3 x 5 mL). The combined organic layers were concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a
20  solid, which was triturated with DCM to give (55 mg, 34%) of the title compound as a white
    solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.41 (s, 1H), 8.06 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.64 - 7.53 (m,
    2H), 7.49 - 7.37 (m, 3H), 7.28 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.10 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 3.85
    3.81 (m, 5H). [M+H]       =  368.27.
25  Example 27. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzamide.
          NI
       O                     NH 2
                           0
                 C1
                                                    128

         WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.02 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.56 - 7.49
    (m, 2H), 7.42 - 7.29 (m, 5H), 4.03 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 353.13.
    Example 28. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-pyrazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         F   N         .
     FO                   N'
  5                Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 12.61 (br s, 1H), 7.92 - 7.43 (m, 9H), 3.84 (s, 2 H). [M+H]           =
    336.18.
    Example 29.       5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
 .0 amine.
         F   N                N
     F     O              N      NH 2
                  0
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (s, 2H), 8.07 (d, J         =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (d, J = 1.96 Hz,
    1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.30 - 7.38 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 7.10 (m, 2H), 6.95 (dd, J     = 8.22, 1.57 Hz, 1H),
    3.82 (s, 3H), 3.87 (s, 2H). [M+H]       = 359.28.
 -5
    Example 30. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine.
           N          IN
       0                     NH 2
               CI
    IH    NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (d, J=
    2.0 Hz, 2H), 7.43 - 7.29 (m, 4H), 6.55 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 3.81 (s, 2H). [M+H]     =
20  326.26.
    Example 31.          1-(4- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)-3-(oxetan-3
    yl)urea.
           N                    O      O
       0                     N     N
                             H     H
                C1
                                                      129

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    To a solution of 4-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)benzoic          acid (Example
    21, 90 mg, 0.25 mmol) in toluene (5 mL) was added DIPEA (33 mg, 0.25 mmol) and DPPA (77
    mg, 0.28 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 80 C for 30 minutes. The LCMS confirmed the
    disappearance of the starting acid. A solution of oxetan-3-amine hydrochloride (41.5 mg, 0.38
  5 mmol), DIPEA (49 mg, 0.38 mmol) and DCM (2 mL) was added to the reaction mixture and
    stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The LCMS confirmed the presence of the product. All
    solvents were removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 5 %, MeOH/DCM)
    afforded the title compound (50 mg, 46%).       1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J= 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.49 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 2H), 7.41 - 7.24 (in, 5H), 7.14 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 4.87 (br s, 3H), 4.55
 .0 (s, 2H), 3.91 (s, 3H), 3.90 (s, 2 H). [M+H]   =  424.20.
    Example 32. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl]pyridine.
          N              N
                 CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.10 (dd, J= 2.0, 6.3 Hz, 2H), 7.67 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61
 .5 7.54 (in, 2H), 7.50 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 6.72 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 3.86 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.78 (s,
    3H). [M+H]      =  341.19.
    Example 33. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine.
        F   N              IN
     F    O
          0NH                  2
                    CI
20  1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.06 (d, J          2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (dd, J
                                                   =                           = 2.0, 9.4 Hz, 1H), 7.73
    7.64 (in, 2H), 7.51 - 7.30 (in, 5H), 6.89 (d, J  = 9.4 Hz, 1H), 3.88 (s, 2H). [M+H]   = 362.31.
    Example 34.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-NN-dimethylpyridin-2
    amine.
                         N
              N~N
          N
25               CI
                                                       130

         WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.00 (d, J              = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (d, J =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (d, J=
    1.6 Hz, 2H), 7.43 - 7.29 (m, 4H), 6.63 (d, J          = 9.0 Hz, 1H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 3.84 (s, 2H), 3.04 (s,
    6H). [M+H]       =  354.22.
  5 Example 35.           5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carbonitrile.
        F     N                N
     F      O              N       N
                     C
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.85 (s, 2H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 - 7.38
    (in, 5H), 4.21 - 4.17 (m, 2H). [M+H]          = 373.14.
 -0
    Example 36.          5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1,3-thiazol-2
    amine.
        F     N
                                 NH2
     FO                    N
                     C1
    Step 1. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-(dibromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine               was prepared in a
 .5 manner analogous to Intermediate 1, Steps 4, with the appropriate starting material substitutions.
    [M+H]      = 426.1, 428.1, 430.1.
    Step 2.       5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)nicotinaldehyde.            To a solution of 3-(3
    chlorophenyl)-5-(dibromomethyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine (700 mg, 1.65 mmol) in ACN (2
    mL) was added a solution of Na 2 CO 3 (525 mg, 5.0 mmol) in water (4 mL) and the mixture was
20  stirred at 70 'C for 16 h. The LCMS showed complete conversion. All solvents were removed
    under reduced pressure.             The residue was dissolved in DCM, washed with water, dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure.            Purification (FCC,
    Si0   2 ,      0         -        20%,       EtOAc/hexanes)         afforded       5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6
    (difluoromethoxy)nicotinaldehyde (355 mg, 76%). [M+H]              = 284.1.
25  Step          3.                 tert-Butyl      (5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl)(hydroxy)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)carbamate.              A solution of tert-butyl (5-bromothiazol-2
    yl)carbamate (100 mg, 0.36 mmol) in THF (2 mL) was cooled to -78 C and n-butyllithium
    (0.51 mL of 1.4 M solution in hexanes, 0.72 mmol) was added dropwise and the mixture was
    stirred      for    30       minutes   at    -78    C.       A    solution    of   5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6
                                                           131

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    (difluoromethoxy)nicotinaldehyde (112 mg, 0.39 mmol) in THF (2 mL) was added dropwise to
    the reaction and this mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at -78 C. The LCMS confirmed the
    product. A saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride was added and the mixture was
    extracted into EtOAc.        The combined extracts were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and solvent was
  5 removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10 - 80%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
    tert-butyl (5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)(hydroxy)methyl)thiazol-2
    yl)carbamate (73 mg, 42%). [M(-tBu)+H]         = 428.1.
    Step 4.     5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1,3-thiazol-2-amine.
    To      a     solution      of  tert-butyl   (5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
 .0 yl)(hydroxy)methyl)thiazol-2-yl)carbamate (73 mg, 0.15 mmol) in DCM (3 mL) was added TES
    (52.2 mg, 0.45 mmol) and TFA (102 mg, 0.90 mmol) and the mixture was stirred at room
    temperature for 16 h. The LCMS showed complete conversion. All solvents were removed in
    vacuo.      The residue was dissolved in DCM and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 , the layers shaken and
    separated and the aqueous layer extracted into DCM.            The combined organic extracts were
 .5 washed with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and solvent under reduced pressure.         Purification
    (FCC, SiO 2 , 20 - 100%, EtOAc/hexanes) gave the title compound (34.4 mg, 62%). 1H NMR
    (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.02 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.71 - 7.30 (in, 6H), 6.68 (s, 1H), 3.94 (s, 2H).
    [M+H]     =  368.06.
  0 Example 37. (2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanol.
                         OH
        0N
                  CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.94 (d, J         =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (in, 2H), 7.44 - 7.14 (in, 7H), 4.63
    (s, 2H), 4.07 (s, 2H), 3.91 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =  340.13.
25  Example 38. 5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
          N              N
       O0             N    NH 2
                  F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.17 (s, 2H), 8.02 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (d, J            =  2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.43 - 7.25 (in, 3H), 7.09 - 7.02 (in, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.81 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 311.00.
                                                       132

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 39. 5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile.
          N              N
       O0            N       N
               F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CLOROFORM-d) 6 8.71 (s, 2H), 8.06 (d, J                =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H),
  5 7.42 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 7.26 - 7.23 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 1H), 4.05 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H). [M+H]
    =  321.17.
    Example 40. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
          OT             N   NH2
                  CI
     1
  0   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.18 (s, 2H), 7.99 (d, J         = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz, 2H),
    7.47 - 7.30 (m, 3H), 4.38 (d, J    =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.81 (s, 2H), 1.33 (t, J  =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =
    341.04.
    Example     41.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
 .5 amine.
             N        /.   N
          0              N   NH2
                  CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.18 (s, 2H), 8.01 - 7.98 (m, 1H), 7.58 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 7.46
    7.29 (m, 3H), 5.35 (m, 1H), 3.80 (s, 2H), 1.30 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]          = 355.21.
20  Example          42.              5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(propan-2-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
        F    N             N
     F     O             N    NH2
                  013
                                                      133

          WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.19 (s, 2H), 8.06 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 - 7.29 (in, 3H), 7.06
    -   7.00 (in, 2H), 6.95 - 6.90 (in, 1H), 4.68 - 4.55 (in, 1H), 3.86 (s, 2H), 1.32 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 6H).
    [M+H]      = 387.25.
  5 Example            43.              5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
         F    N             N
      F    Or             N    NH 2
                     0
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.10 (s, 2H), 7.99 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.69 - 7.24 (in, 3H), 7.04
    -   6.99 (in, 1H), 6.84 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 6.75 - 6.70 (in, 1H), 5.21 (in, 1H), 4.92 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 2H),
 .0 4.64 - 4.59 (in, 2H), 3.78 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 401.22.
    Example          44.          N-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetamide.
           N             N
        0              N    N    0
                            H
                  CI
 .5 Step 1. To a solution of 5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine (Example 25, 50.0 mg, 0.15 mmol), in DCM (10 mL), was added and DIPEA (40 mg,
    0.31 mmol). The solution was cooled to 0 C and acetyl chloride (230 pL, (0.23 mmol) was
    added dropwise. The reaction mixture was allowed warm up to room temperature overnight,
    then concentrated to afford the corresponding imide (bis-acylated adduct), which was used crude
20  in the next step.
    Step 2.       N-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide.
    A solution of the crude product from step 1 in added ammonia (7N in methanol) was stirred at
    room temperature for lh. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-100 % EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title
    compound (11.4 mg, 21%) as an off white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 10.44 (s,
25  1H), 8.59 (s, 2H), 8.14 (d, J     = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61 - 7.54 (in, 1H), 7.51
    7.38 (in, 3H), 3.90 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 2.12 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 369.20.
    Example                   45.                          3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(4
    methanesulfonylphenyl)methyl]pyridine.
                                                        134

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
        F    N
     Fill O I1
     F
                     I   1       0
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.89 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.78 - 7.37 (m, 8H), 4.16
    (s, 2H), 3.08 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 424.16.
  5 Example              46.              5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(2-methoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
        F    N               N
     F    0%7N                  NH2
               N   O
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.27 - 8.16 (m, 4H), 7.85 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (t, J = 1.0
    Hz, 1H), 7.16 - 6.96 (m, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.89 (s, 2H). [M+H]     =  360.23.
 -0
    Example              47.              5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl} methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
       O               N     NH2
                   F
            Ni   O     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.23 - 8.20 (m, 1H), 8.18 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.71
 .5 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.41 - 7.36 (m, 1H), 7.20 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.84 (s,
    2H). [M+H]     =    360.23.
    Example 48.        2-[5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidin
    2-yl]propan-2-ol.
          O            N
                           /OH
                   F
20               0     F
    IH   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.69 (s, 2H), 8.09 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.46 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 7.31 (t, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.12 (td, J= 1.0, 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (m, 1H),
    4.04 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 1.20 (s, 6H). [M+H]     =  402.26.
                                                       135

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    Example          49.               3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5- {[6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyridine.
          N             N
       O                  CF3
                C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.66 (d, J          =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.08 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.93 - 7.89
  5 (m, 1H), 7.75 (d, J   =  8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (t, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.32
    (m, 3H), 4.13 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]     =  379.15.
    Example      50.         3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5- {[6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyridine.
        F   N          /   N
     F    O                   O1
 .0                C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.03 (dd, J         =  2.15, 10.37 Hz, 2H), 7.31-7.72 (m, 7H), 6.64 (d, J
    =  8.61 Hz, 1H), 5.27 (m, 1H), 3.90 (s, 2H), 1.34 (d, J= 6.26 Hz, 6H). [M+H]        =  405.22.
    Example          51.              3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-propoxypyridin-3
 .5 yl)methyl]pyridine.
        F   N          /   N
                   C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.06-8.00 (m, 2H), 7.71-7.31 (m, 7H), 6.70 (d, J            = 9.00 Hz, 1H),
    4.23 (t, J = 6.85 Hz, 2H), 3.91 (s, 2H), 1.80 (q, J   = 6.65 Hz, 2H), 1.02 (t, J = 7.43 Hz, 3H).
20  Example           52.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1-methyl-1,2
    dihydropyridin-2-one.
          N
       O             N    0
                ci
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J           = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.51 (m, 3H), 7.47 - 7.30 (m,
    4H), 6.51 (d, J  =  9.4 Hz, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.76 (s, 2H), 3.55 (s, 3H). [M+H]   =  341.19.
                                                       136

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 53. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-4-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N
           _0           IN
                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.44 (d, J            = 4.70 Hz, 1H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.71 (s, 1H), 7.61
  5 7.56 (m, 2H), 7.55 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 7.29 (d, J= 4.70 Hz, 2H), 3.96 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]
    =  311.13.
    Example       54.      5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2
    carboxylic acid.
        F    N             N
     F     O                    OH
                              0
 .0                 C1
    Example 54 was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 21, with the appropriate starting
    materials and reagent substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.61 (br s, 1H), 8.19 (br
    s, 1H), 8.12 - 7.94 (m, 1H), 7.93 - 7.75 (m, 2H), 7.72 - 7.57 (m, 3H), 7.56 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 4.10
    (br s, 2H). [M+H]      = 391.25.
 -5
    Example 55. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(2-methoxypyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]pyrazine.
       0       N    14N),0
              II
                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.58 (s, 2H), 8.23 (s, 1H), 8.03 - 7.86 (m, 2H), 7.50 (d, J            =
    4.30 Hz, 2H), 4.09 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 343.01.
20
    Example 56.         5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-methylpyrimidin-2
    amine.
                           H
                 C
                                                     137

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.48 (br s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 2H), 8.07 - 7.90 (m, 2H), 7.42 (d, J        =
    5.09 Hz, 2H), 4.11 - 3.94 (m, 5H), 2.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 342.05.
    Example 57. 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-cyclopropylpyrimidin
  5 2-amine.
     N0           N 11N    N
                           H
                 C
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.12 - 8.18 (m, 1H), 7.93 - 8.05 (m, 2H), 7.59 - 7.70 (m, 1H),
    7.50 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.41 (d, J  = 5.09 Hz, 2H), 4.09 (s, 2H), 4.03 (s, 3H), 2.68 (m, 1H), 0.84
    0.97 (m, 2H), 0.61 - 0.71 (m, 2H). [M+H]    = 368.06.
 -0
    Example 58. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4-yl)methyl]pyrazine.
      0~N              N'N
                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10-7.92 (m, 3H), 7.55 (br s, 1H), 7.45 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 4.01 (s,
    3H), 3.98 (s, 2H), 3.83 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 315.01.
 -5
    Example 59. (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine.
          I i        I
      O                      NH 2
                 Ci
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J       = 1.96Hz, 2H), 7.47 (s, 2H), 7.44 - 7.14 (m, 6H), 3.94
    (s, 2H), 3.91 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 339.10.
20
    Example 60. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine.
         N                 NH 2
          I0           IN
            O13
               10
                                                    138

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.02 (d, J          =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.81 - 7.74 (m, 1H), 7.58 - 7.48 (m,
    2H), 7.45 - 7.25 (m, 3H), 6.50 (d, J     =  5.48 Hz, 1H), 6.43 (s, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 2H).
    [M+H]     = 326.01.
  5 Example 61. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(2,6-dimethylpyridin-4-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine.
             NN
           I        I
             NO
                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.02 (d, J          = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.59 - 7.48 (m, 2H), 7.47 - 7.25 (m,
    3H), 6.97 (s, 2H), 3.98 - 3.86 (m, 5H), 2.43 (s, 6H). [M+H]     = 339.05.
 -0 Example 62. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carbonitrile.
          N                  N
                 CI
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.57 (d, J          =  5.09 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (d, J  = 2.35Hz, 1H), 7.79 (s,
    1H), 7.60 (d, J= 2.35Hz, 1H), 7.54 (d, J     =  1.96Hz, 2H), 7.48 - 7.26 (m, 3H), 4.08 (s, 2H), 3.93
    (s, 3H). [M+H]     =  336.14.
 -5
    Example 63. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxamide.
                           NH2
          N                  0
                             O1
                        N
        O
                 CI
    The title compound was made in a manner analogous to Example 23, from 4-{[5-(3
    chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carbonitrile          (Example 62), reaction
20  run at rt. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.49 (d, J           = 5.09 Hz, 1H), 8.15 (d, J = 1.96Hz, 1H),
    8.05 (br s, 1H), 7.92 (s, 1H), 7.74 (d, J =  1.96Hz, 1H), 7.58 (d, J =  1.57 Hz, 2H), 7.54 - 7.33 (m,
    4H), 4.05 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =  354.15.
    Example 64. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-3-ylmethyl)pyridine.
                                                       139

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
         N             N
                CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.55 (d, J            =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.39 (dd, J =  1.2, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 8.13
    (d, J  = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 - 7.66 (m, 1H), 7.58 (d, J  = 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.52
    - 7.37 (m, 3H), 7.29 (dd, J= 4.7, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 3.96 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 318.09.
  5
    Example 65. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,3-thiazol-5-ylmethyl)pyridine.
             NS
          0        1N
              c
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.93 (s, 1H), 8.07 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.75 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J             =
    2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.56 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 7.37 - 7.52 (m, 3H), 4.21 (s, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H). [M+H]           =
 .0 318.15.
    Example 66. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(dimethyl-1,3-thiazol-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine.
         N      -      N
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.06 (s, 1H), 7.63 (s, 1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.50-7.40 (m, 3H),
15  4.03 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 2.48 (s, 3H), 2.28 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 345.17.
    Example         67.              3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(6-methoxy-5-methylpyridin-3
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
          N          N   O
20  1H  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.09 (d, J             2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J
                                                   =                          = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (d, J=
    2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.69 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 7.59 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 3.87 - 3.84 (m, 6H),
    3.82 (s, 2H), 3.81 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 356.09.
    Example 68. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,3-thiazol-5-ylmethyl)pyridine.
                                                      140

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
       F    N            S
     F    O              N
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.94 (s, 1H), 8.22 (d, J               = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.77 (s, 1H), 7.69 (s, 1H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.53 - 7.45 (m, 3H), 4.29 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 354.12.
  5 Example        69.               3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(dimethyl-1,3-thiazol-5
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
       F    N
     F   0O
                  C1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.14 (d, J               = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.88 - 7.83 (m, 1H), 7.68 (s, 1H),
    7.62 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.55 - 7.45 (m, 3H), 4.11 (s, 2H), 2.51 (s, 3H), 2.29 (s, 3H).           [M+H]   =
 .0 381.15.
    Example     70.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-3
    carboxamide.
                             NH2
       F    N'N                O
     F    O              N
                  CI
15  1H  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.86 (d, J            = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.70 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.26 (d, J=
    2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (s, 2H), 7.98 (d, J     = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (s, 1H), 7.55 (br s, 1H), 7.52 - 7.43 (m,
    4H), 4.09 (s, 2H). [M+H]       =  391.05.
    Example     71.        (5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-3
20  yl)methanamine.
       F    N          /        NH 2
     F   O               N
                                                       1C4
                                                       141

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Step 1. tert-Butyl ((5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyridin-3
    yl)methyl)carbamate. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 1,
    with the appropriate starting material substitutions.
    Step       2.            (5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-3
  5 yl)methanamine. Purified compound from Step 1, was treated with a solution of 20% TFA in
    DCM and stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure
    and the residue partitioned between EtOAc and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 . The organic layers were
    washed with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford
    the title compound. 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.61 - 8.47 (in, 1H), 8.31 (in, 2H), 8.22
 .0 (br s, 1H), 7.97 - 7.80 (in, 2H), 7.72 - 7.57 (in, 2H), 7.50 (br s, 2H), 4.12 - 4.03 (in, 2H), 4.00 (s,
    2H), 3.15 (d, J    = 4.7 Hz, 2H). [M+H]      = 377.25.
    Example            72.                3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-methylpyridin-3
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
        F    N               N
     F     O
 .5                 Cl
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.42 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J               =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.91 (d, J =  2.0 Hz,
    1H), 7.85 (s, 1H), 7.89 - 7.83 (in, 1H), 7.69 - 7.65 (in, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 7.61 - 7.54 (in, 3H),
    3.97 (s, 2H), 2.39 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 361.06.
  0 Example          73.              3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-5
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
        F    N
     F )O                  N
                  I
                    Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.20 (s, 1H), 7.94 - 7.84 (in, 1H), 7.69 (s, 1H), 7.59 (s, 1H),
    7.53 - 7.42 (in, 4H), 4.19 (s, 2H), 2.55 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 368.02.
25
    Example 74. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,3-thiazol-2-ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F    N
     F )O
                    C1
                                                        142

       WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.01 (s, 1H), 7.74 - 7.64 (m, 1H), 7.63 - 7.56 (m,
    2H), 7.55 - 7.41 (m, 4H), 4.43 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 354.05.
    Example 75. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methylpyrimidine.
        N              'N
                     N
         _0 I
  5              Cl
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.55 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.63 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.53 - 7.34 (m, 3H), 4.02 (s, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =
    327.15.
 -0 Example 76. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyrimidine.
        N             '   N
                 C0
                 ci
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.55 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.63 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.53 - 7.34 (m, 3H), 4.02 (s, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =
    342.15.
 -5
    Example         77.            5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(propan-2
    yl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
         I               N
        NN                  N
                            H
              N. ci
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.30 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J =  2.3 Hz,
20  1H), 7.58 (t, J  =    1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 7.35 (br s, 1H), 4.03 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.85 (s,
    3H), 3.75 (s, 2H), 1.11 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 6H). [M+H]       = 370.05.
    Example 78. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine.
        N                N
    NO               N3
                 CI
                                                       143

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.02 (s, 1H), 8.77 (s, 2H), 8.16 (d, J        =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J
    =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.65 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 3.98 (s, 2H), 3.30 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 313.01.
    Example 79. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4-yl)methyl]pyridine.
                     \  N
  5              C1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.05 (d, J          = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (s,
    1H), 7.52 - 7.38 (m, 4H), 7.28 (s, 1H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.75 (s, 2H), 3.65 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =  315.02.
    Example 80. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-pyrazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine.
              I      I  ,N
          O            NH
 .0             C1
    Step     1.     tert-Butyl 4-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-pyrazole-1
    carboxylate. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 1, with the
    appropriate starting material substitutions.
    Step 2. Purified compound from step 1, was treated with a solution of 20% TFA in DCM and
 .5 stirred at r for 4 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue partitioned
    between EtOAc and sat. NaHCO 3 . The organic layers were washed with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the title compound.              1H NMR
    (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.05 (d, J         = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J  = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.58 - 7.54 (m, 3H),
    7.50 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.72 (s, 2H). [M+H]     = 301.02.
20
    Example 81.          5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-methylpyrimidin-2
    amine.
          N              N
                           H
                 C1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J            = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (br s, 1H), 7.70 (d,
25  J  =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (t, J  = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 3.83 (s 3H), 3.80-3.75 (m, 3H),
    3.73 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 342.05.
                                                     144

         WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 82. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-cyclopropylpyrimidin
    2-amine.
          N               N
       0               N    N
                            H
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J                = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (br s, 1H), 7.70 (d,
  5 J  =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (t, J     = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H), 2.68
    2.56 (m, 1H), 0.71 - 0.61 (m, 2H), 0.53 - 0.38 (m, 2H). [M+H]           = 368.02.
    Example 83.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-NN-dimethylpyrimidin
    2-amine.
          N               N
       0               N    N
                I
 .0               C1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.38 (s, 2H), 8.16 (d, J                  =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J =  2.0 Hz,
    1H), 7.56 (t, J      =  1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.50 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 3.86 (s 3H), 3.73 (s, 2H), 3.01 (s, 6H).
    [M+H]     = 355.18.
 .5 Example            84.               5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(2,2,2
    trifluoroethyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
          N               N
       0               N    N    CF 3
                            H
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.38 (s, 2H), 8.16 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (br s, 1H), 7.72 (d,
    J  =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (t, J     = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.50 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 4.10-4.01 (m, 2H), 3.86 (s 3H),
20  3.73 (s, 2H). [M+H]        = 409.14.
    Example        85.         Methyl     4- {[6-(3 -chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl] methyl} benzoate.
      10     .N                0
                            0
                  CI
    [M+H]     = 369.16
                                                           145

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example         86.           4- { [6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl} benzonitrile.
       O                     N
                CI
    [M+H]    = 336.6.
  5
    Example      87.       5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
       O             N    NH2
                C
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.29 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 8.04 (s, 1H), 7.98 (t, J          =  3.72 Hz,
    1H), 7.69 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.41 (d, J       =  5.09 Hz, 2H), 4.03 (s, 3H), 3.98 (s, 2H). [M+H]      =
 .0 328.21.
    Example 88. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine.
       O0                 F
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (t, J = 2.5 Hz, 2H), 7.42 - 7.21
 .5 (m, 5H), 7.01 (t, J  =  8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.95 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 328.26.
    Example     89.     5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
        F   N             N
     F    O             N    NH2
20                 cl
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.11 (s, 2H), 8.01 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 - 7.63 (m, 1H), 7.50
    (s, 1H), 7.45 (s, 1H), 7.38 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 363.30.
    Example 90. 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxamide.
                                                       146

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
       O      N              NH 2
                          0
                C1
    Step 1.     Methyl 5-((6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)picolinate.          The title
    compound       was      prepared    in   a   manner    analogous    to    Example     1   from    (6
    (methoxycarbonyl)pyridin-3-yl)boronic acid and Intermediate 3. [M+H]= 370.10.
  5 Step 2.     5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxamide.             A
    solution of 5-((6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)picolinate        (from Step 1) and
    ammonia (7N in methanol) was heated at 60 'C for 8 h, then concentrated under reduced
    pressure. Trituration with diethyl ether obtained the title compound (12 mg, 70%) as a yellow
    solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.66 (br s, 1H), 8.14 (s, 1H), 8.07 (d, J          = 7.83 Hz, 1H),
 .0 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.69 - 7.60 (m, 1H), 7.59 - 7.50 (m, 1H), 7.41 (d, J     = 4.70 Hz, 2H), 4.27 (s, 2H),
    4.00 - 4.09 (m, 3H). [M+H]       = 355.10.
    Example         91.             5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
    cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine.
        F   N              N
     F    O             NAN       A
                              H
             I'
 .5                C
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.25 (br s, 2H), 8.11 (br s, 1H), 7.75 (br s, 1H), 7.48 - 7.68 (m,
    2H), 7.35 - 7.46 (m, 3H), 3.90 (br s, 2H), 2.63 (br s, 1H), 0.76 (d, J   =  6.26 Hz, 2H), 0.51 (br s,
    2H). [M+H]     =  403.12.
20  Example         92.             5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
    methoxypyrimidine.
        F   N              N
     F    O             N     O
                   C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.49 (br s, 2H), 8.13 (br s, 1H), 7.78 (d, J        = 2.74 Hz, 1H), 7.63
    7.49 (m, 2H), 7.47- 7.31 (m, 3H), 4.07 - 3.81 (m, 5H). [M+H]      = 376.20.
25
    Example         93.             5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
    methylpyrimidin-2-amine.
                                                      147

          WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
         F     N              N
      F     O               N   N
                                H
                      c
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.20 (br s, 2H), 8.10 (br s, 1H), 7.74 (br s, 2H), 7.68 - 7.49 (m,
    1H), 7.46- 7.27 (m, 3H), 3.87 (br s, 2H), 2.89 (br s, 3H). [M+H]     = 377.10.
  5 Example         94.       5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(2,2,2
    trifluoroethyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
         F     N              N
      FO                    N   N   CF3
                                H
                      Ci
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.27 (br s, 2H), 8.10 (br s, 1H), 7.80 - 7.68 (m, 1H), 7.61
    7.49(m, 1H), 7.47 - 7.31 (m, 4H), 4.19 - 4.02 (m, 2H), 3.90 (br s, 2H). [M+H]     = 445.10.
 -0
    Example 95. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-4-ylmethyl)pyrazine.
          0   N
                II C1
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.58 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 8.02 - 7.95
    (m, 1H), 7.47 - 7.38 (m, 2H), 4.20 - 3.90 (m, 5H). [M+H]       = 302.10.
 -5
    Example 96. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1,2-oxazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine.
            N
                         N/
        0
                   C 1
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.52 (s, 1H), 8.34 (s, 1H), 8.04 (s, 1H), 7.60 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 7.46
    -   7.27 (m, 3H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.85 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 301.10.
20
    Example 97. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1,2-oxazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         F     N          :
      F     O,0
                      C1
                                                       148

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.36 (s, 1H), 8.12 (d, J          =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (s,
    1H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.48 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 3.91 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 337.10.
    Example 98. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(dimethyl-1,2-oxazol-4-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyrazine.
                        N
  5             CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.07 - 7.88 (m, 2H), 7.46 - 7.30 (m, 3H), 4.03 (s, 3H), 3.89 (br
    s, 2H), 2.40 (br s, 3H), 2.21 (s, 3H). [M+H]   =  330.79.
    Example         99.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(dimethyl-1,2-oxazol-4
 .0 yl)methyl]pyridine.
       F    N
     F   0
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.01 (br s, 1H), 7.64 (br s, 1H), 7.58 (br s, 1H), 7.53 (br s, 1H),
    7.47 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 3.81 (br s, 2H), 2.36 (br s, 3H), 2.12 (br s, 3H). [M+H]   = 365.20.
 .5 Example        100.          Methyl       2-(4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)acetate.
       F    N                 0
     F   O,                     O
                   C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08 (d, J          = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 8.02 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (s,
    1H), 7.71 - 7.66 (m, 1H), 7.56 - 7.59 (m, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.57 - 7.46 (m, 1H), 7.45 - 7.36 (m,
20  4H), 4.01 (s, 2H), 3.67 (s, 3H), 3.61 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 418.29.
    Example         101.           Ethyl      1-(4-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)cyclopropane-1-carboxylate.
                                                      149

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
        F   N                    O
     F'O                             O
                     C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.08 (d, J           =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (s, 1H), 7.68 (d, J   =  2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.59- 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.52 - 7.47 (m, 2H), 7.45 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 7.31 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 4.10-4.05
    (m, 4H), 4.03 (m, 1H), 4.00 (s, 2H), 1.55 - 1.49 (m, 2H), 1.14 - 1.19 (m, 3H). [M+H]         =  445.10.
  5
    Example        102.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-{[6-(cyclopropylmethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridine.
        F   N                 N
     F    0
          O1                    0
                     CI
    1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08-8.05 (m, 1H), 8.01-7.90 (m, 1H), 7.71 (d, J                 =  2.35Hz,
 .0 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.50 - 7.45 (m, 1H), 7.43 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 6.75-6.73 (m, 1H), 4.05 (d, J        = 7.04
    Hz, 2H), 3.96 (s, 2H), 1.32 - 1.17 (m, 1H), 0.52 - 0.63 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.36 (m, 2H). [M+H]             =
    417.33.
    Example      103.        5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyridine-2
 .5 carbonitrile.
           ON
                        F
                   O       F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.73 (d, J            =  1.6 Hz, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 8.01 - 7.90 (m, 2H), 7.86
    (t, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (dd, J= 0.8, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.2
    Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 4.48 (q, J       =  7.3 Hz, 2H), 4.27 (s, 2H), 1.43 (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 3H).
20  [M+H]    =  383.26.
    Example 104.          5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2
    amine.
              N            NK
                oN              NH2
                        F
                   .     F
                                                         150

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.52 (s, 2H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.95 (qd, J            = 0.9, 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.89
    7.85 (m, 1H), 7.47 (t, J      = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J = 3.3, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 4.49
    (q, J  = 7.2 Hz, 2H), 4.07 (s, 2H), 1.43 (t, J   = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 374.14.
  5 Example 105. 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
             KN             N~Y
                 ON            NH 2
                   CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.23 - 8.17 (m, 2H), 8.15 (s, 1H), 8.05 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.99
    (ddd, J  =  1.6, 3.6, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 7.52 - 7.47 (m, 2H), 6.44 (s, 2H), 4.41 (q, J   =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.90
    (s, 2H), 1.35 (t, J   =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 342.15.
 -0
    Example 106. 5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2
    amine.
       O              N     NH 2
                   F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.23 - 8.14 (m, 3H), 7.88 (d, J                 = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (s, 1H),
 .5 7.52 (t, J  =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.29 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 7.09 - 5.70 (m, 3H), 3.95 (s, 3H), 3.90 (s, 2H).
    [M+H]    =  360.21.
    Example 107.        5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine
    2-carbonitrile.
          NI1            IN
       0              N       N
                   F
20               O    F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.94 (s, 2H), 8.19 (s, 1H), 7.90 (td, J= 1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (t,
    J  =  2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J     = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  = 2.3, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.03- 6.62 (m, 1H),
    4.28 (s, 2H), 4.04 (s, 3H). M+H]       = 370.19.
25  Example 108. 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile.
                                                        151

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
             KN
             11           1
                N     N       N
                  C1
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.93 (s, 2H), 8.17 (s, 1H), 8.06 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.97 (ddd, J            =
    1.6, 3.7, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.43 - 7.38 (m, 2H), 4.49 (q, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.27 (s, 2H), 1.43 (t, J = 7.0
    Hz, 3H). [M+H]     =  352.26.
  5
    Example 109. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(pyridin-2-ylmethyl)pyridine.
       F    NN         NN
     F    O
                  C1
    Step 1. ((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)zinc(II)       bromide. To a
    suspension of zinc (42.77 mg, 0.65 mmol) in THF (1 mL) was added 1,2-dibromoethane (2.48
 .0 pl, 0.03 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 70 'C for 10 minutes before being cooled to
    room temperature. Once cooled, trimethylsilylchloride (2.92 pL, 0.02 mmol) was added and the
    solution was stirred at room temperature for an additional 30 min. To the activated zinc solution
    was added 5-(bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine         (Intermediate 12,
    200 mg, 0.57 mmol) and the resulting mixture was heated at 70 C for 8 h. The reaction mixture
 .5 was cooled to room temperature and decanted from the solids to afford a -0.5 M solution of the
    title compound.
    Step 2. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(pyridin-2-ylmethyl)pyridine.        To a solution
    of 2-bromopyridine (29.89 pL, 0.31 mmol) and Pd(PPh 3) 4 (9.88 mg, 0.01 mmol) in THF (3.00
    mL) was added ((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)zinc(II)          bromide
20  (500.00 pL, 0.57 mol/L, 0.29 mmol, from step 1). The resulting solution was heated at 70 C for
    5 h. The solvent was removed, and the crude material was purified on the Shimadzu HPLC
    using the 5-95% gradient with TFA to obtain the title compound TFA salt as an oil (21 mg, 16
    %). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.72-8.78 (m, 1H), 8.46 (dt, J           = 1.57, 8.02 Hz, 1H), 8.23
    (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.84-7.93 (m, 3H), 7.39-7.83(m, 5H), 4.50 (s, 2H). [M+H]    =  347.08.
25
    Examples 110-111 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 109, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example 110. 2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
                                                    152

         WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
        F    N           N
     F    O              N
                    C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.65 (d, J        =  1.57 Hz, 1H), 8.55 (dd, J = 1.57, 2.74 Hz, 1H), 8.47
    (d, J  =  2.74 Hz, 1H), 8.18 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.79-7.36 (m, 5H),
    4.25 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 348.06.
  5
    Example 111.         6-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridazin-3
    amine.
        F    N           NIN
     F    O                  NH2
                    C1
    1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.18 (d, J       =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d, J = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (d, J
 .0 =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.39-7.78 (m, 6H), 4.19 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 363.16.
    Example            112.             3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-6-methyl-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N         N'N
       0               N
                 C1
15  To       a    solution     of    3-(chloromethyl)-5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxy-2-methylpyridine
    (Intermediate 8, 87 mg, 0.31 mmol), in acetone (12 mL), was added 1H-1,2,4-triazole (32 mg,
    0.46 mmol), and Cs 2 CO 3 (150 mg, 0.63 mmol ).              The reaction mixture stirred at room
    temperature for 2 h, then filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC,
                                                                                          1H NMR (400
    SiO 2 , 0 - 100%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (82.4 mg, 84 %).
20  MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.03 (s, 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.45 - 7.37 (m, 2H), 7.37 - 7.29 (m, 2H),
    5.34 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H), 2.52 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 315.22.
    Examples 113, 115, 117, 123, 125-126 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 13,
    with the appropriate starting materials and reagent substitutions.
25
    Example 113. 4-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}benzamide.
                                                      153

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
           I I-Z     I
       O0:r                   NH2
               N
                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.02 - 8.08 (m, 2H), 7.98 (td, J            = 4.30, 1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (d, J
    =  8.22 Hz, 2H), 7.47 - 7.37 (m, 4H), 4.21 (s, 2H), 4.02 (s, 3H). [M+H]       =  354.20.
  5 Example      114.      5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2
    carboxamide.
        F    N              N
     F    O                       NH 2
                               0
                    C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 90, with the appropriate
    starting material substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.49 (d, J           = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (d,
 .0 J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (d, J      = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (dd, J = 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.71 - 7.27 (m, 6H),
    4.07 (s, 2H). [M+H]       =  390.16.
    Example 115.       5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine
    2-carboxamide.
        F    N              N
     F    O              N        NH 2
 .5               '0
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.85 (s, 2H), 8.14 (d, J             = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.38 - 7.30 (m, 1H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 2H) 6.95 (dd, J      =  8.22, 1.57 Hz, 1H) 3.81
    (s, 3H) 4.17 (s, 2H). [M+H]        = 387.32.
20  Example 116. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxamide.
          N             N
       O                      NH 2
                           0
                 C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 90, with the appropriate
    starting material substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.56 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 8.09
                                                         154

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    8.00 (m, 2H), 7.82 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (s, 1H), 7.45 - 7.30
    (m, 3H), 4.09 (s, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 354.20.
    Example 117.        5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
  5 carboxamide.
       F   N                N
     F<O                  N      NH2
                   Ci
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.85 (s, 2H), 8.18 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.80 - 7.37 (m, 5H), 4.18 (s, 2H). [M+H]        = 391.16.
 -0 Example        118.              5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
         N               N
          ON                  NH2
                F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.83 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.45 - 7.26 (m, 3H), 7.10 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 4.12 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 339.18.
 -5
    Example 119.       5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
           N                N
              O          N      NH 2
                     F        O
                  0N   F
                  OAF
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.84 (s, 2H), 8.09 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
20  7.46 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.17 - 7.08 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.61 (m, 1H), 4.40 (q, J      = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.12 (s,
    2H), 1.35 (t, J  =   7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 401.27.
    Example           120.                  5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide.
                                                         155

        WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
                        N       NH2
                 N   F        O
             N    0     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.91 (s, 2H), 8.33 - 8.27 (m, 2H), 8.12 (br s, 1H), 7.95 (d, J=
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.93 - 7.55 (m, 2H), 7.50 (dd, J          =  1.6, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 7.32 - 7.29 (m, 1H), 4.09 (s,
    2H), 3.91 (s, 3H). [M+H]          = 388.24.
  5
    Example 121.          5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidine
    2-carboxamide.
          N            /N
                        N ,     NH2
                    OF
    1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.84 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
 .0 7.46 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 7.32 (t, J       = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.14 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 6.83 (t, J  =  1.0 Hz, 1H), 4.13
    (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H). [M+H]         = 387.25.
    Example               122.                  5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3
    yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide.
             N            /-  N
         O0N                       NH2
                                0
                N       F
  5            N     O      F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.84 (s, 2H), 8.23 - 8.15 (m, 2H), 7.79 (s, 1H), 7.75 - 7.36 (m,
    2H), 7.22 - 7.20 (m, 1H), 4.44 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.13 (s, 2H), 1.37 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]
    =  402.26.
20  Example           123.           5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
       O              QNN       NH 2
                              0
                  C
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.94 (s, 2H), 8.20 (s, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.99 - 7.91 (m, 1H), 7.41
    (d, J   = 5.09 Hz, 2H), 4.28 (s, 2H), 4.04 (s, 3H). [M+H]         = 356.20.
                                                           156

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
    Example       124.       5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyridine-2
    carboxamide.
               N                   NH2
                                0
                        F
                    O-     F
  5 The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 90, with the appropriate
    starting material substitutions. 1H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.66 - 8.63 (m, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H),
    8.04 (dd, J    =   0.8, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.98 - 7.85 (m, 3H), 7.46 (t, J   =  8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  =  2.0,
    8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.04 - 6.61 (m, 1H), 4.48 (q, J        = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.25 (s, 2H), 1.43 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H).
    [M+H]     = 401.25.
 -0
    Example 125.          5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine
    2-carboxamide.
                         N      NH2
           -N
                     F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.92 (s, 2H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 8.12 (br s, 1H), 7.88 - 7.82 (m, 1H),
 .5 7.74 (t, J   =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (br s, 1H), 7.52 (t, J    =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 4.26 (s,
    2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]          = 388.15.
    Example            126.             5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
            N                 N
         O       N         N       NH2
20                  C1
    IH NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.92 (s, 2H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.13 (br s, 1H), 8.04 - 7.99 (m, 1H),
    7.99 - 7.91 (m, 1H), 7.71 (br s, 1H), 7.52 - 7.45 (m, 2H), 4.48 - 4.37 (m, 2H), 4.25 (s, 2H), 1.40
    1.28 (m, 3H). [M+H]          =  370.05.
25  Example        127.        Methyl     1-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate.
                                                          157

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
                      N      0-
       NO            NN
                             0
       0>     N N
                 CI
    To a solution of 5-(bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyrazine                 (Intermediate 3,
    200.00 mg, 0.64 mmol), in acetone (3.19 mL), was added methyl 1H-1,2,4-triazole-3
    carboxylate (121.60 mg, 0.96 mmol) and K2 CO 3 (264.44 mg, 1.91 mmol). The reaction was
  5 stirred at rt for 2 h. The LC/MS showed two peaks with [M+H] values consistent with the two
    major regioproducts.          The mixture was diluted with DCM (5 mL), dried (Na 2SO 4) and
    concentrated under reduced pressure.           Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 20 - 100% EtOAc/hexanes)
    afforded the title compound (100 mg, 44%).           1H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.79 (s, 1H), 8.26
    (s, 1H), 8.01 (td, J     =  1.1, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.99 - 7.90 (in, 1H), 7.45 - 7.36 (in, 2H), 5.64 (s, 2H),
 .0 4.07 (s, 3H), 3.92 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 360.24.
    Examples 128-149, 151-197 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 4 or Example 127
    with the appropriate starting materials and reagent substitutions.
 .5 Example         128.            3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(3-cyclopropyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridine.
       F    N         N' N
     F<O                   N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.96 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.63 (in, 1H), 7.50 (d, J            = 19.17 Hz, 1H),
    7.39 (s, 2H), 7.26 (s, 2H), 5.26 (s, 2H), 3.70 (s, 1H), 2.04 (s, 1H), 1.55 (s, 1H), 0.95 (d, J   = 6.65
20  Hz, 3H). [M+H]       =  377.22.
    Example 129. 3-(3-Fluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N         N'N\
                       N
                 F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d, J= 2.7 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J=
25  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.38 (in, 1H), 7.34 - 7.26 (in, 2H), 7.12 - 7.05 (in, 1H), 5.44 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s,
    3H). [M+H]      = 285.26.
                                                         158

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 130. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyrazine.
              N        N
                CI
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.68 (s, IH), 8.20 (s, 1H), 8.01 (s, 2H), 7.98 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.44
  5 -  7.39 (m, 2H), 5.58 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 302.31.
    Example            131.               3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F   N         N'N
     F    0O
                   CI
    1
 .0   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.63 (s, IH), 8.25 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, IH), 8.02 (s, IH), 7.92 (d, J =
    2.3 Hz, IH), 7.83 - 7.61 (m, IH), 7.56 (s, IH), 7.50 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 5.51 (s, 2H). [M+H]             =
    337.15.
    Example           132.              3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
 .5 yl)methyl]pyrazine.
          N        N'N
       O      N     \-N
                cl          as a mixtture
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.54 (s, 2H), 8.18 (d, J           =  6.65 Hz, 2H), 7.90 - 8.05 (m, 4H),
    7.85 (s, 2H), 7.37 - 7.47 (m, 4H), 5.50 (d, J    =  10.17 Hz, 4H), 4.07 (s, 6H), 2.27 - 2.69 (m, 6H).
    [M+H]    = 316.22.
20
    Example        133.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(3-cyclopropyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2
    methoxypyrazine.
          N        N
              N         N
        O
                cl             as a mixture
                                                       159

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.47 (s, 1H), 8.16 (s, 2H), 8.01 (d, J      =  1.2 Hz, 4H), 7.78 (s, 1H),
    7.44 - 7.39 (m, 4H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 4.06 (m, 6H), 2.43 - 2.33 (m, 1H), 2.04 - 1.94 (m,
    1H), 1.20 - 0.84 (m, 8H). [M+H]    = 342.33.
  5 Example 134. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N           N
               I
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.16 (d, J      = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.55 (d, J =
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (d, J  = 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.43 - 7.32 (m, 3H), 5.33 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =
    301.19.
 -0
    Example 135. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(propan-2-yloxy)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
             N       N'
                 I
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.63 - 8.57 (m, 1H), 8.16 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.73
    (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 5.44 - 5.40 (m, 3H), 1.31 (d, J= 6.3 Hz,
 .5 6H). [M+H]     = 329.26.
    Example 136. 3-[2-Methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridin-3-yl]benzonitrile.
           NN'
                   N
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.25 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (m, 2H), 7.91
20  7.83 (m, 3H), 7.69 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 5.43 (s, 2H), 3.90 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 292.26.
    Example               137.                        2-Methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)-3-[3
    (trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridine.
          N        N
                O'CF3
                                                     160

          WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.77 (d, J=
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.54 - 7.45 (m, 3H), 7.27 (d, J= 6.3 Hz, 1H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]       =
    351.29.
  5 Example            138.          3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -[(3 -methyl-4H- 1,2,4-triazo 1-4
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
           N       N'
       o0                N
                C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.52 (s, 1H), 8.13 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.55 (s, 1H), 7.47 - 7.33 (m, 3H), 5.27 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 2.45 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 315.10.
 -0
    Example 139. 3-(3,5-Difluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
           N           N
        F        F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.22 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.80 (d, J
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.00 - 6.89 (m, 1H), 5.44 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H).
 .5 [M+H]    = 303.09.
    Example       140.      Methyl  1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-5-carboxylate.
                   N     N
                    \ N
              ci
20   H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.31 - 8.23 (m, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.70 - 7.63 (m, 1H), 7.52 - 7.45
    (m, 1H), 7.41 - 7.29 (m, 3H), 5.79 (s, 2H), 4.05 - 3.92 (m, 6H). [M+H]     = 359.33.
    Example       141.      Methyl  1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate.
                                                     161

         WO 2014/158998                                                       PCT/US2014/021426
          N        N'N
                       N0-
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.21 - 8.18 (m, IH), 8.18 - 8.15 (m, IH), 7.56 (s, IH), 7.50 (d, J
    1.2 Hz, IH), 7.38 - 7.33 (m, 3H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 3.99 (m, 6H). [M+H]    = 359.35.
  5
    Example            142.            3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
                      -N
       O               N
               cl           As a mixture
    IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.15 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, IH), 8.09 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.99 (s, IH),
 .0 7.82 (s, IH), 7.56 - 7.49 (m, 4H), 7.42 - 7.32 (m, 6H), 5.26 (m, 4H), 3.98 (m, 6H), 2.49 (s, 3H),
    2.40 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 315.22.
    Example            143.             3-[3-(Difluoromethyl)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N-         N
       0!
                    F
15              F
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.65 (s, IH), 8.21 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.95 (s, IH), 7.79 (d, J
    =  2.3 Hz, IH), 7.73 - 7.62 (m, 2H), 7.62 - 7.51 (m, 2H), 7.23 - 6.90 (m, IH), 5.42 (s, 2H), 3.86
    (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 317.21.
20  Example 144. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
          N        NA
       0
               CI
                                                      162

       WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.76 (d, J  = 2.0 Hz, IH), 7.61 (d, J=
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (d, J      = 1.2 Hz, 2H), 7.45 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 6.33 (s, 1H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s,
    3H). [M+H]      = 300.15.
  5 Example      145.         3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl]methyl}pyridine.
         N11       N       CF3
           O          N
              ci
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.72 (s, IH), 8.24 (d, J         = 2.0 Hz, IH), 7.79 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, IH),
    7.56 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 5.50 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 369.17.
 -0
    Example        146.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(3-cyclopropyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2
    methoxypyridine.
         N
           o          N
                cl              As a mixture
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.39 (s, 2H), 8.18 - 8.12 (m, 2H), 7.81 - 7.32 (m, IOH), 5.50 (s,
 .5 2H), 5.32 (s, 2H), 3.97 - 3.93 (m, 6H), 2.29 - 2.19 (m, IH), 2.04 - 1.98 (m, IH), 1.17 - 0.83 (m,
    8H). [M+H]      = 341.23.
    Example      147.          3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
       F     N        N'N
     FAO      I           N
20                 cl           As a mixture
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.58 - 7.32 (m, 14H), 5.43 (d, J          = 13.3 Hz, 4H), 2.58 - 2.29 (m,
    6H). [M+H]      = 351.17.
    Example        148.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-{[4-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-imidazol1-
25  yl]methyl}pyridine.
                                                       163

         WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
          N11        N'N
       O
                          CF 3
                  CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.48 (br s, 1H), 8.24 (br s, 1H), 8.02 (in, 2H), 7.88 - 7.62 (in,
    4H), 5.58 (in, 2H), 4.25 (s, 3H). [M+H]     =  368.10
  5 Example            149.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[1-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)ethyl]pyridine.
        F     N          NN)
     F     O'
                      CI
    Step 1.      1-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)ethanol.     A solution of 5-(3
    chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)nicotinaldehyde (Example 36 product from Step 2., 287 mg,
 .0 1.0 mmol) in DCM (5 mL) was cooled to 0 C and methylmagnesium bromide (1.5 mL of a IM
    solution in toluene, 1.5 mmol) was added dropwise.             The mixture was warmed to room
    temperature and stirred for 30 minutes. A saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride
    was added and the mixture was extracted into DCM.               The combined extracts were dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and solvent removed under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
 .5 60%,      EtOAc/hexanes)      gave   1-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)ethanol
    (231 mg, 70%). [M+H]        = 300.1.
    Step 2. A solution of 1-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)ethanol        (231 mg,
    0.76 mmol) and DIPEA (196 mg, 1.52 mmol)                in THF (5 mL) was cooled to 0 'C and
    methansulfonyl chloride (108 mg, 0.92 mmol) was added. The mixture was warmed to room
20  temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The LCMS confirmed the disappearance of the starting
    material. All solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude material purified (FCC, SiO 2 , 0
    60%, EtOAc/hexanes) to give the desired intermediate mesylate (205 mg, 70%) which was not
    characterized, and used directly in the next step.
    Step 3.          3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[1-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)ethyl]pyridine.
25  The mesylate from the previous step (90 mg, 0.23 mmol) was reacted in a manner analogous to
    Example 127, with the appropriated starting material substitutions. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 50
    - 100%, EtOAc/hexanes) gave the title compound (56 mg, 69%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)
    6 8.64 (s, 1H), 8.24 (d, J    = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.91 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.82 - 7.59 (in,
                                                       164

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    iH), 7.54 (s, IH), 7.48 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 5.86 (d, J         = 7.0 Hz, IH), 1.96 (d, J    =  7.0 Hz, 3H).
    [M+H]     = 351.19.
    Example           150.                3-(3-Fluorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
  5 yl)methyl]pyridine.
         N~i'      N'<N
      0
                 F           As a mixture
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.45 (s, iH), 8.17 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, iH), 8.11 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, iH),
    7.85 (s, iH), 7.73 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, iH), 7.67 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, iH), 7.45 - 7.25 (m, 6H), 7.11 - 7.04
    (m, 2H), 5.38 (s, 2H), 5.34 (s, 2H), 3.95 (m, 6H), 2.51 (s, 3H), 2.32 (s, 3H). [M+H]       =  299.16.
 -0
    Example        151.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl]methyl}pyridine.
           N          N -\   CF3
                           N
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.71 (s, iH), 8.21 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, iH), 7.79 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, iH),
 .5 7.58 (s, iH), 7.49 - 7.32 (m, 3H), 5.49 (s, 2H), 4.42 (d, J    = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H).
    [M+H]     = 383.18.
    Example        152.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl]methyl}pyridine.
           N            N
         0          CF3
20                 C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.14 - 8.11 (m, 2H), 7.71 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, iH), 7.55 (s, iH), 7.46
    -7.33 (m, 3H), 5.59 (s, 2H), 4.41 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]           = 383.18.
    Example         153.          3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 - [(4-methyl-i H-imidazo l1-
25  yl)methyl]pyridine.
                                                        165

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
        F   N         N
     F    O1               N
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.25 (d, J           =  2.3 Hz, IH), 7.99 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.67 - 7.43
    (m, 6H), 6.93 (s, IH), 5.14 (s, 2H), 2.02 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 350.18.
  5 Example      154.       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
                      N
          O           N
                   F
                0     F      As a mixture
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.44 (s, IH), 8.19 - 8.09 (m, 2H), 7.74 - 7.65 (m, 3H), 7.47
    7.29 (m, 6H), 7.17 - 7.10 (m, 2H), 7.04 - 6.64 (m, 2H), 5.40 - 5.37 (m, 2H), 5.34 (s, 2H), 3.94
 .0 (m, 6H), 2.51 (s, 3H), 2.32 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 347.23.
    Example      155.       1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carbonitrile.
                         N
                      N s        N
        F   N-
                   C1
 .5 1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.76 (s, IH), 8.29 (d, J       = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.97 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, IH),
    7.82 - 7.40 (m, 5H), 5.58 (s, 2H). [M+H]     = 362.01.
    Example      156.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[3-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                         N     0
        F   N"        N'
     F    O0             N
20                 CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.58 (s, IH), 8.25 (d, J         = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.91 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, IH),
    7.80 - 7.40 (m, 5H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 4.46 (s, 2H), 3.36 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 381.17.
                                                      166

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example      157.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                              0
        F   N           N
     F    O           NN
                   I
                     C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.23 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.90 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H),
  5 7.80 - 7.40 (m, 5H), 5.51 (s, 2H), 4.71 (s, 2H), 3.37 (s, 3H). [M+H]    =  381.17.
    Example      158.      3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                        N
                    F
                O      F
 .0  H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.71 (s, 1H), 8.24 (d, J         = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.47 - 7.36 (m, 2H), 7.33 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.17 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 5.50 (s,
    2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =  401.19.
    Example      159.      3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-methoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
 .5 triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                      N
          O           N]
                     CF3
                   F
                O      F
    IH   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.15 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.43 (d, J  =   8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (s, 1H), 7.30 (s, 1H), 7.16 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.65 (m, 1H),
    5.60 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H). [M+H]     =  401.19.
20
    Example           160.            3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
    ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F   N''         N
                          N
     F    O
                     c1
                                                       167

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.65 (s, 1H), 8.23 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.39 (s, 5H), 5.64 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 338.15.
    Example         161                3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
  5 ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F    N        N' N
        F                  N
               ci
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.30 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1H),
    7.73 - 7.34 (m, 5H), 5.85 (s, 2H). [M+H]       = 338.15.
 .0 Example      162.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
            N-       N -\N    CF,
          O              N
                      F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.72 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J             = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (d, J  = 2.38 Hz,
    1H), 7.48 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.18 - 7.06 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 5.50 (s, 2H), 4.42 (q, J         =
 .5 7.07 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J= 7.09 Hz, 3H). [M+H]        =  415.21.
    Example      163.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
            N'        N'N)
          o        CF 3
                      F
                  O      F
20   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.13 (s, 2H), 7.74 (d, J             =  2.51 Hz, 1H), 7.49 - 7.42 (m, 1H),
    7.40 - 7.34 (m, 2H), 7.14 (dd, J     = 7.40,1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.63 (m, 1H) 5.60 (s, 2H), 4.41 (q, J
    =  7.03 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J= 7.09 Hz, 3H). [M+H]        = 415.21.
    Example      164.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
25  triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                                                       168

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
                        N      0
           N         N'
         O               N
                     F
                  0     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.56 (s, 1H), 8.17 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J              = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.49 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.13 (td, J       = 2.0, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.04 - 6.63 (m, 1H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 4.47 (s,
    2H), 4.41 (q, J   = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.37 (s, 3H), 1.35 (t, J   = 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =  391.28.
  5
    Example      165.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                            0
                NN
                      %    N
                      Nzz/
                     F
                  O     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.15 (d, J            =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
 .0 7.49 - 7.33 (m, 3H), 7.12 (tdd, J      = 1.0, 2.1, 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.04 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 5.44 (s, 2H), 4.70
    (s, 2H), 4.40 (q, J   =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (s, 3H), 1.34 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 391.25.
    Example       166.           5-[(4-Chloro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]-3-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2
    methoxypyridine.
         N         N'N
                       CI
                   F
15              O    F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.11 (d, J            =  2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (s, 1H), 7.67 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.49 - 7.30 (m, 4H), 7.15 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 5.30 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]
    =  366.16.
20  Example        167.             1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
    carboxamide.
                        N      O
                        O      NH 2
                  CI
                                                          169

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.14 (d, J         =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J=
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.48 - 7.43 (m, 1H), 7.41 - 7.32 (m, 2H), 6.76 (d, J        =  2.3 Hz, 1H),
    5.39 (s, 2H), 4.41 (q, J  = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 357.29.
  5 Example 168.         Ethyl 1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
    carboxylate.
         N         N
                      N
                        0
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.48 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J              = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.87 - 7.76 (m, 2H),
    7.57 (s, 1H), 7.56 - 7.32 (m, 3H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 4.18 (q, J    = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H), 1.23 (t, J
 .0 =  7.04 Hz, 3H). [M+H]      = 372.13.
    Example        169.        1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
    carbonitrile.
         N         N'
             -~          N
                CI
 .5  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J             =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.81 (d,
    J= 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.61 - 7.31 (m, 4H), 5.39 (s, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 328.08.
    Example 170. 2-Methoxy-3-(pyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
         N          N
      O                N
           NI
           N
20   H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.83 (d, J = 3.91 Hz, 2H), 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.35 (s, 1H), 8.00 (dd,
    J =  13.30, 7.83 Hz, 4H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =  298.15.
    Example       171.       N-(1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-4
    yl)acetamide.
                                                       170

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
           N         N'N
            0     ~HN4
                  C1
    The title compound was isolated as a bi-product from Example 236.              'H NMR (400 MHz,
    CD 30D) 6 8.04 (d, J      = 1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (s, 1H), 7.57 (d, J = 1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (s, 1H), 7.44
    (s, 1H), 7.34 - 7.29 (m, 3H), 5.22 (s, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 2.01 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 357.32.
  5
    Example 172. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N          N'
       0
         O
                  C1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.21 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84 - 7.77 (m, 2H), 7.58 (d, J = 0.8
    Hz, 1H), 7.53 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 7.26 (s, 1H), 6.87 (s, 1H), 5.17 (s, 2H), 3.93 - 3.78 (m, 3H).
 .0 [M+H]=301.12.
    Example              173.            2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F     N          N'N
     F    O      N
                      F
 .5 1H   NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.73 - 8.62 (m, 1H), 8.32 - 8.20 (m, 1H), 8.06 - 7.96 (m, 1H),
    7.93 - 7.85 (m, 1H), 7.75 - 7.66 (m, 1H), 7.60 - 7.49 (m, 1H), 7.44 - 7.33 (m, 1H), 7.28 (dt, J=
    2.3, 8.6 Hz, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.44 (s, 2H). [M+H]     = 321.14.
    Example             174.          2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-methoxyphenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
20  ylmethyl)pyridine.
        F     NI         N'
     F    O,0
                     0
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.71 - 8.62 (m, 1H), 8.03 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.91 - 7.87 (m, 1H),
    7.73 - 7.68 (m, 1H), 7.55 - 7.51 (m, 1H), 7.43 - 7.37 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.05 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.96
    (m, 1H), 5.75 (s, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.44 (s, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 333.24.
                                                       171

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
   Example              175.                 2-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)-3-[3
   (trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridine.
        F     N        N'
    F )IO
                      ICF3
 5 1H    NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.67 (d, J           = 9.8 Hz, 1H), 8.33 - 8.19 (m, 2H), 8.04 (d, J = 2.3
   Hz, 1H), 7.98 (d, J      = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (d, J  =  0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (s, 1H), 7.67 - 7.39 (m, 2H),
   5.50 (s, 1H), 5.44 (s, 1H). [M+H]      = 386.14.
   Example 176.           1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1,2-dihydropyridin-2
.0 one.
          N     O
         0
                a
           'NCI
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.16 (d, J           =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (s,
   1H), 7.42 - 7.32 (m, 1H), 7.36 - 7.29 (m, 4H), 6.61 (d, J       =  9.00 Hz, 1H), 6.18 (t, J = 6.46 Hz,
   1H), 5.12 (s, 2H),3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]       = 327.17.
-5
   Example 177. 5-[(4-Chloro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.
          N        N'N
       0
                    CI
                ci
    H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.20 (s, IH), 8.10 (s, IH), 7.80 (s, IH), 7.60 (s, IH), 7.55 (s,
   IH), 7.50 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 5.24 (s, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =  334.07.
20
   Example 178. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-methyl-iH-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine.
          N        NN
       0
                CI
    H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.15 (s, IH), 7.67 (s, IH), 7.61-7.58 (m, IH), 7.54 - 7.36 (m,
   4H), 7.10 (s, IH), 5.14 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.60 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 314.10.
                                                       172

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 179. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-nitro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine.
          N        N
                      -No
                CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d)             6 9.05 (s, 1H), 8.06 (s, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.52
  5 7.38 (m, 4H), 5.54 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 345.09.
    Example 180. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-nitro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]pyrazine.
          N        N'N
              N
        O
                      6N*,O
                c1
     1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.76 (s, 1H), 8.19 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 8.01 - 7.91
 .0 (m, 1H), 7.45 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 5.52 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 346.70.
    Example 181. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-pyrazol-1-ylmethyl)pyrazine.
       0    N
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.76 (s, 1H), 8.19 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 8.01 - 7.91
 .5 (m, 2H), 7.45 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 5.52 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 301.11.
    Example 182. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2-methoxypyrazine.
          N     N  N
              N
       0
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 9.13 (br s, 1H), 8.33 (s, 1H), 8.05 - 7.89 (m, 2H), 7.73 (br s,
20   1H), 7.57 (br s, 1H), 7.48 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 4.09 (s, 3H). [M+H]  =  303.11.
    Example 183. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(4-methyl-iH-pyrazol-1-yl)methyl]pyrazine.
                                                     173

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
          N         N'
        O    N N
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.07 - 7.96 (m, 2H), 7.94 (s, iH), 7.58 (br s, iH), 7.42 (d, J          =
    3.91Hz, 2H), 7.34 (s, IH), 5.39 (s, 2H), 4.04 (s, 3H), 2.09 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 315.10.
  5 Example       184.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(3-methyl-iH-1,2,4-triazol1-
    yl)methyl]pyrazine.
                N          N
                       F
                   0      F    as a mixture
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.53 (s, IH), 8.15 (s, IH), 8.14 (s, IH), 7.96 - 7.90 (m, 2H), 7.86
    (t, J= 2.0 Hz, IH), 7.85 - 7.82 (m, 2H), 7.46 (dt, J= 1.6, 8.0 Hz, 2H), 7.21 (s, IH), 7.19 (s, IH),
 .0 7.04 - 6.64 (m, 2H), 5.50 (s, 2H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 4.57 - 4.45 (m, 4H), 2.63 (s, 3H), 2.32 (s, 3H),
    1.44 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 6H). [M+H]      =  362.15.
    Example 185. 5-[(3-Cyclopropyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-3-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]
    2-ethoxypyrazine.
                          NN
          O0    N          N
                       F
.L5                O      F       as a mixture
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.46 (s, IH), 8.14 (s, 2H), 7.99 - 7.92 (m, 2H), 7.89 - 7.85 (m,
    2H), 7.78 (s, 2H), 7.48 - 7.44 (m, 2H), 7.21 - 7.18 (m, IH), 7.04 - 6.62 (m, 2H), 5.61 (s, 2H),
    5.45 (s, 2H), 4.58 - 4.46 (m, 4H), 2.41 - 2.30 (m, IH), 1.99 (tt, J= 5.2, 8.3 Hz, IH), 1.45 (dt, J=
    1.6, 7.0 Hz, 6H), 1.17 - 1.09 (m, 2H), 1.07 - 1.01 (m, 2H), 0.98 - 0.90 (m, 2H), 0.90 - 0.85 (m,
20  2H). [M+H]=388.15.
    Example      186.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
            N          N \CF    3
          ON               N
                       F
                         F                            7
                                                     174

        WO 2014/158998                                                                 PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.80 (s, 1H), 8.23 (s, 1H), 7.93 - 7.90 (m, 1H), 7.86 (t, J                 = 2.0
    Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J        =   8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J  =  2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 5.64 (s,
    2H), 4.52 (q, J    =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.45 (t, J    = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 416.12.
  5 Example      187.             3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
                 N
                    CF 3 N
                       F
                   O      F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (s, 1H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.95 - 7.87 (m, 1H), 7.83 (t, J                 = 2.0
    Hz, 1H), 7.44 (t, J        =   8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  =  2.2, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 5.74 (s,
 .0 2H), 4.52 (q, J    =  7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.45 (t, J    = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 416.12.
    Example      188.            3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
                          N        0
           N          N
                N
                      F
                   O'     F
 .5  H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 7.96 - 7.91 (m, 1H), 7.85 (t, J                 = 2.2
    Hz, 1H), 7.45 (t, J        =   8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J  =  2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 5.54 (s,
    2H), 4.51 (q, J      =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.46 (s, 3H), 4.30 (s, 2H), 1.44 (t, J      =  7.0 Hz, 3H).  [M+H]   =
    392.26.
20  Example      189.            3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[5-(methoxymethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
                        N     N
               ON      N    /:::/
                       F
                      1
                   O     F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.14 (s, 1H), 7.95 - 7.91 (m, 2H), 7.84 (d, J                 = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.46
    (t, J =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J         = 2.2, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.63 (m, 1H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 4.79 (s,
25  2H), 4.51 (q, J    =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (s, 3H), 1.44 (t, J     = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 392.15.
                                                            175

       WO 2014/158998                                                                 PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 190.           Methyl 1-((6-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate.
           N   - N     NN       0
              KN        \.ZNIV0
                       F
                    O~   F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.78 (s, 1H), 8.23 (s, 1H), 7.92 (td, J             = 1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (t,
  5 J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.45 (t, J        =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  =  2.3, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.63 (m, 1H),
    5.63 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.91 (s, 3H), 1.44 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]           = 406.15.
    Example 191.           Methyl 1-((6-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazole-5-carboxylate.
           N                  N
        O0       N     Nz:::/
                       F
 .0                 0      F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 7.95 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.87 - 7.85 (m,
    1H), 7.45 (t, J    =   8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J   = 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 5.54 (s, 2H),
    4.51 (q, J =   7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.35 (s, 3H), 1.44 (t, J    =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 406.26.
 .5 Example         192.          3 -(3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
    yl)methyl)pyrazine.
           N               N
        O        N1        N    O
                       F
                    0     F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.82 (s, 1H), 8.28 (s, 1H), 7.92 (td, J             = 1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (t,
    J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J        =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J  =  2.7, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.62 (m, 1H),
20  5.67 (s, 2H), 4.53 (q, J     =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.45 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 393.15.
    Example        193.           3 -(3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-((5 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
    yl)methyl)pyrazine.
                                                           176

        WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
                          N+O
           N '              N
                 N    Nzzz/
                      F
                   O~   F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.23 (s, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.80 (td, J            =  1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (t,
    J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.43 (t, J      = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (dd, J   =  2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.61 (m, 1H),
    6.01 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J     = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.44 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =  393.21.
  5
    Example       194.        Methyl    1-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-5-carboxylate.
                   NN
       O       N    N
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.94 (td, J              =   1.1, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.93
 .0 7.86 (m, 1H), 7.43 - 7.34 (m, 2H), 5.99 (s, 2H), 4.08 - 4.04 (m, 3H), 3.99 - 3.95 (m, 3H). [M+H]
    =  360.18.
    Example 195.       Methyl l-({6-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate.
            N
               N       N      0-
       S
                   F
15               O    F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.88 (s, 1H), 8.35 (s, 1H), 7.83 (td, J               =  1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.72
    7.68 (m, 1H), 7.52 (t, J       = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.43 - 7.04 (m, 2H), 5.66 (s, 2H), 3.99 (s, 3H), 3.29 (s,
    3H). [M+H]      =  392.16.
20  Example 196. Methyl 1-{[6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazole
    3-carboxylate.
                                                          177

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
                          N     0O
             O   N         N
                    CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.89 (s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 1H), 7.99 - 7.96 (in, 1H), 7.96 - 7.90 (in,
    1H), 7.52 - 7.46 (in, 2H), 5.64 (s, 2H), 4.45 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.83 - 3.77 (in, 3H), 1.39 - 1.34
    (in, 3H). [M+H]       =  374.18.
  5
    Example 197. 1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole
    4-carboxamide.
        F   N           N'
                               NH2
                           0
                     CI
    Step 1. Methyl 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-imidazole
 .0 4-carboxylate was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 127.
    Step      2.     1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
    carboxamide.        To a solution of methyl 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-imidazole-4-carboxylate in 7 N ammonia in MeOH (4 mL) was added NaCN (5
    mg).    Reaction mixture was heated 24 h at 130 'C. LC-MS confirms the disappearance of
 .5 starting material. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification
    (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 - 1%, EtOAc/MeOH) gave the title compound.         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6
    8.18 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.04 (s, 1H), 7.92 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.57
    7.55 (in, 1H), 7.53 - 7.43 (in, 3H), 5.58 (s, 2H), 3.55 (s, 1H), 3.15 (d, J  = 5.1 Hz, 1H). [M+H]     =
    379.15.
20
    Example       198.       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
          N             N     OH
            N         N
                 CI
    To    a solution of methyl          1-((6-(3-chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
25  triazole-3-carboxylate (Example 127, 77.00 mg, 0.21 mmol), in THF (1 mL) was added LiBH 4
    (4.66 mg, 0.21 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hr. The mixture was
                                                        178

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
    diluted with water and extracted into DCM. The combined extracts were dried (Na 2 SO4) and
    concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-5% DCM/MeOH) afforded the
    title compound (50 mg, 70 %). 'H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.21 (s, 1H), 8.02
    (td, J   =  1.1, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.00 - 7.92 (in, 1H), 7.45 - 7.38 (in, 2H), 5.53 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H),
  5 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]          =  332.15.
    Examples 199-211 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 198, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
 .0 Example        199.        (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)methanol.
                             N      OH
        F    N/           N
     F     0                  N
                       CI
    IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.26 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (d, J =  2.7 Hz, 1H),
    7.82 - 7.38 (in, 5H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H). [M+H]        = 367.18.
 -5
    Example 200.               [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                            N      OH
          O                  N
                         F
                     0      F
    IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.52 (s, 1H), 8.17 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H),
20  7.49 - 7.34 (in, 3H), 7.13 (td, J        = 2.0, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.65 (in, 1H), 5.39 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s,
    2H), 4.40 (q, J       =  7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]   = 377.25.
    Example 201.            [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                         N      OH
          N          N
       O                  N
                     F
25                O       F
                                                          179

         WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.53 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J            = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.48 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 7.32 (t, J       = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.16 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.65 (m, 1H), 5.49 (s,
    1H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 363.23.
  5 Example        202.          (1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
                          N      OH
          O                N
                    cI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.53 (s, 1H), 8.18 (d, J            = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (d, J= 2.7 Hz, 1H),
    7.60 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.49 - 7.45 (m, 1H), 7.42 - 7.33 (m, 2H), 5.39 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.42 (q,
 .0 J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]           = 345.22.
    Example 203.             (1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)methanol.
                            N     OH
        F    N         N's
     F     O                N
                     0
 .5 1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.56 (s, 1H), 8.22 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.61 (t, J   =  1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.38 - 7.31 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 6.95 (ddd, J      = 1.0, 2.4, 8.3
    Hz, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.07 (q, J      = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.40 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =
    377.25.
20  Example 204.           [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol.
                       N      OH
               N    N
       0               N
                    F
             N   O     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.53 (s, 1H), 8.28 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.24 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 7.89
    (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 - 7.37 (m, 2H), 7.20 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s,
25  3H). [M+H]       = 364.22.
                                                         180

         WO 2014/158998                                                                     PCT/US2014/021426
    Example           205.         [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]methanol.
                                N     OH
                 O              N
                            F
                  N     O      F
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.54 (s, 1H), 8.26 (d, J                   = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.24 (dd, J   = 0.8, 5.5 Hz,
  5 1H), 7.89 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.44 - 7.41 (m, 1H), 7.23 - 7.20 (m, 1H), 5.41
    (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.45 (q, J           =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]      = 378.20.
    Example             206.           (1- {[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol.
                                N     OH
         F      N-,          N's
      F       O                  N
                             F
 .0                 N    O      F
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.56 (s, 1H), 8.35 - 8.28 (m, 2H), 8.05 (d, J                    = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.83
    -   7.41 (m, 2H), 7.41 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 7.19 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 5.49 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H). [M+H]                   =
    400.21.
 .5 Example 207.                  [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                                N     OH
                N   1       N
           ,'-        N
                            F
                         O~   F
      H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 7.93 (td, J                  =  1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (t,
    J   =    2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J         = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J    = 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.04 - 6.64 (m, 1H),
20  5.52 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J            = 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.44 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 378.25.
    Example 208.                  [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-5 -yl] methanol.
                                                                181

        WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
                                OH
                  N      N=::/
            O
                         F
                     0O< F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.14 (s, 1H), 7.90 (s, 1H), 7.93 - 7.89 (m, 1H), 7.83 (t, J                  = 2.0
    Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J        =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (dd, J  =  2.7, 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 5.65 (s,
    2H), 4.91 (s, 2H), 4.50 (q, J        = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.44 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 378.15.
  5
    Example       209.         (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5
    yl)methanol.
         N            N'
       O       N          N
                    OH
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.16 (s, 1H), 8.02 - 7.99 (m, 1H), 7.94 (ddd, J                = 1.8, 3.5, 5.3 Hz,
 .0 1H), 7.92 - 7.89 (m, 1H), 7.44 - 7.39 (m, 2H), 5.66 (s, 2H), 4.90 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]             =
    332.18.
    Example 210.           [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                         N      OH
       O       N        N
                      F
15                O      F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.59 (s, 1H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 7.88 - 7.83 (m, 1H), 7.76 - 7.71 (m,
    1H), 7.53 (t, J     =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.06 (m, 2H), 5.50 (s, 2H), 5.16 (t, J  =  6.1 Hz, 1H), 4.36 (d,
    J  = 6.3 Hz, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H). [M+H]          = 364.14.
20  Example        211.          (1- {[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
                            N     OH
            N            N
              O   N         N
                      c18
                                                           182

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.24 (s, 1H), 8.02 - 7.99 (in, 1H), 7.99 - 7.93 (in,
    1H), 7.54 - 7.48 (in, 2H), 5.49 (s, 2H), 5.16 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 4.45 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.36 (d,
    J  =  5.9 Hz, 2H), 1.36 (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 346.25.
  5 Example           212.             3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
                        N
       N     ~      N- \\,
                 CI
    Step 1. 3 -(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -((3 -nitro -1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1 -yl)methyl)pyridine.      The
    title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 127 with the appropriate
 .0 starting material substitutions.
    Step 2.      3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(3-methoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]pyridine.
    To         a      solution      of     3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1
    yl)methyl)pyridine (135 mg, 0.39 mmol), in MeOH (3 mL) was added NaOCH 3 (63 mg, 1.17
    mmol). The mixture was stirred at 60 'C for 16 h. The LC/MS showed approximately 70%
 .5 conversion. All solvents removed under reduced pressure, the residue dissolved in DCM (50
    mL) and water (50 mL), the layers shaken and separated and the aqueous layer extracted into
    DCM (3 x 50 mL). The combined extracts were dried (MgSO 4 ), filtered and solvent removed
    under reduced pressure.        Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-100% EtOAc/DCM) afforded the title
    compound (72 mg, 56%).          1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.33 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d, J= 2.0 Hz,
  0 1H), 7.79 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.52 - 7.38 (in, 3H), 5.23 (s, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H), 3.79
    (s, 3H). [M+H]       = 331.21.
    Examples 213-215 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 212, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
25
    Example      213.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-methoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
        F    N          N
     F    O                N
                     CI
                                                        183

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.27 (s, 1H), 8.24 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.91 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.82 - 7.61 (m, 1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 5.32 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H).             [M+H]   =
    367.16.
  5 Example      214.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(5-methoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
                           0
        F   N          N      N
                           Nz/
     F    0
                    C1
     H NMR(400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.17 (d, J               = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61 - 7.39
    (m, 6H), 5.21 (s, 2H), 4.12 (s, 3H). [M+H]         = 367.16.
 -0
    Example       215.            3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(3-ethoxy-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
        F   N          N'N
     FO                     N
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.28 - 8.21 (m, 2H), 7.91 (d, J               =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84 - 7.60 (m,
 .5  1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 5.31 (s, 2H), 4.26 (q, J    =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J = 7.0 Hz,
    3H). [M+H]      =  380.18.
    Example 216.           1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
                      N
          N        N     -NH2
       o               N
                   F
20              0     F
    Step           1.             3 -(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1
    yl)methyl)pyridine. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 127
    with the appropriate starting material substitutions.
    Step 2. 1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazo1-3
25  amine. To a solution of 3 -(3 -(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo 1
    1-yl)methyl)pyridine (331.00 mg, 0.88 mmol) in HOAc (6 mL), and water (2 mL) was added
                                                          184

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    zinc (573.57 mg, 8.77 mmol).            The mixture was stirred at 50 'C for 1 hr. The solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure to afford a white solid. The crude solid was dissolved in DCM
    (50 mL), sonicated and filtered (repeated twice). The combined DCM extracts were washed with
    sat. aq. NaHCO 3 and the layers separated. The organic layers were combined, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
  5 filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure.           The resulting solid was triturated with
    hexanes to give the title compound (287 mg, 94%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.15 (d, J=
    2.7 Hz, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.47 - 7.36 (in, 2H), 7.33 (t, J     = 1.8 Hz, 1H),
    7.16 - 7.11 (in, 1H), 7.04 - 6.65 (in, 1H), 5.19 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 348.22.
 .0 Examples 217-218, 223-236 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 216, with the
    appropriate starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example      217.           1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
                    N
       O                N
 .5              CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.17 (d, J                = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.58 (d, J       =   1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.51 - 7.42 (in, 3H), 5.26 (s, 2H), 5.11 (s, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H).
    [M+H]     = 316.21.
  0 Example      218.          1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
        F   F~
             N
                           N~
                        N   \    NH2
     F    O                 N
                     C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.11 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.06 (s, 1H), 7.78 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.73 - 7.50 (in, 1H), 7.47 (s, 1H), 7.41 - 7.30 (in, 3H), 5.15 (s, 2H). [M+H]     = 352.17.
25
    Example      219.           1-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
                                                         185

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
          N         N   NH2
           O          N
                 F
    Step 1. 3 -Bromo-2-methoxy-5 -((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1 -yl)methyl)pyridine. Title compound
    was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 5 with the appropriate starting materials
    and reagent substitutions. [M+H]   =  314.24/316.25.
  5 Step 2. 1-((5-Bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine. To a solution of
    3 -bromo-2-methoxy-5 -((3 -nitro- 1H-1,2,4-triazo l-1 -yl)methyl)pyridine (60 mg, 0.191 mmol) in
    AcOH (3 mL), and water (1 mL) was added zinc (124 mg, 1.91 mmol). The mixture was stirred
    at 50 'C for 1 hr. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford a white solid. The
    crude solid was dissolved in DCM (50 mL), sonicated and filtered (repeated twice).              The
 .0 combined DCM extracts were washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 and the layers separated.               The
    organic layers were combined, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced
    pressure. The title compound was taken on to the next step without further purification.
    Step 3. 1-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.            1
    ((5-bromo-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine             and    (3-fluorophenyl)
 .5 boronic (42 mg, 0.3 mmol) dissolved in mixture of water (2 mL), and ACN (4 mL) were added
    Pd(dppf)C12 (8 mg, 0.01 mmol) followed by Na 2 CO 3 (53 mg, 0.5 mmol).             The mixture was
    irradiated under microwaves for 15 minutes at 100 'C. The reaction mixture was diluted with
    water and extracted with DCM (3 X5 mL). The combined organic phase was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered,   and concentrated   under reduced pressure.          Purification   (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-10%
  0 DCM/MeOH) afforded the title compound (49.7 mg, 89%).              1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6
    8.13 (br s, 1H), 7.71 (br s, 1H), 7.63 - 7.23 (m, 4H), 7.08 (br s, 1H), 5.19 (m, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H).
    [M+H]     = 300.27.
    Examples 220-222 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 220, with the appropriate
25  starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 220.        1-{[6-Methoxy-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
                      N
       o              N
                0-'
                                                     186

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.12 (s, 2H), 7.67 (d, J              = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.31 (dd, J   =  8.2 Hz,
    1H), 7.10 - 7.04 (m, 2H), 6.91 (dd, J= 1.6, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 5.18 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 3.82 (s, 3H).
    [M+H]   = 312.28.
  5 Example    221.          1-{[6-Methoxy-5-(3-methylphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
         NN       N         NH2
      O               N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.12 (m, 2H), 7.64 - 7.29 (m, 4H), 7.16 (br s, IH), 5.17 (br s,
    2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 2.37 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 296.29.
 -0
    Example         222.             3- {5 -[(3-Amino-i H-1,2,4-triazo l-i -yl)methyl] -2-methoxypyridin-3
    yl}benzonitrile.
                      N      H2
                       N
      0
                  N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (br s, IH), 8.13 (br s, IH), 7.92 - 7.68 (m, 4H), 7.61 (d, J=
 .5 7.8 Hz, IH), 5.19 (br s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]        = 307.26.
    Example    223.          1-{[5-(3-Ethoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
         N     ~     -NH2
                      N
      O               N
20   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.13 - 8.09 (m, 2H), 7.66 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.31 - 7.25 (m,
    IH), 7.07 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 6.91 - 6.87 (m, IH), 5.17 (s, 2H), 4.05 (d, J         =   7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.93 (s,
    3H), 1.39 (t, J   =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 326.26.
    Example 224. 1-{[5-(3-Cyclopropoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol
25  3-amine.
                                                         187

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
          N       N-      NH2
       O             N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.16 - 8.09 (m, 2H), 7.66 (d, J          = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 7.36 -7.16 (m,
    2H), 7.11 - 7.02 (m, 2H), 5.18 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 3.80 (tt, J= 6.01, 2.96 Hz, 1H), 0.82 - 0.67
    (m, 4H). [M+H]      =  338.27.
  5
    Example     225.        1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
            N        N' N\NH2
          O             N
                     F
                  OAF
    1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.18 - 8.07 (m, 2H), 7.71 (d, J        =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.50 - 7.34 (m,
 .0 3H), 7.17 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 5.18 (s, 2H), 4.41 (q, J   = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J=
    7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]       = 362.24.
    Example 226.         1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
        F    NN
     F    O              N
15
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.22 - 8.11 (m, 2H), 7.84 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 - 7.39 (m,
    1H), 7.35 (t, J  =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 7.05 (m, 2H), 6.97 (dd, J =  2.5, 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.24 (s, 2H),
    3.82 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =  348.22.
20  Example 227. 1-{[5-(5-Chloropyridin-3-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    amine.
              N   N- N    NH2
       O             N
          N KC8
                                                     188

          WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
       H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 9.28 (s, 1H), 8.78 (d, J             =  1.76 Hz, 1H), 8.66 (d, J  =  2.13 Hz,
     1H), 8.38 (d, J      =   2.26 Hz, 1H), 8.31 (t, J = 2.01 Hz, 1H), 8.01 (d, J     =  2.26 Hz, 1H), 5.38 (s,
     2H), 4.02 (s, 3H). [M+H]         = 317.21.
  5  Example 228.             1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
     1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
           N         NN\NH       2
        O                N
                     F
             N     O    F
       H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.25 - 8.19 (m, 2H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.84 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76
     -  7.55 (m, 1H), 7.44 - 7.36 (m, 1H), 7.18 (d, J     =  0.8 Hz, 1H), 5.19 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H). [M+H]
 .0=    349.25.
     Example        229.        1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
     1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
             N           NNH2
               O             N
                        F
                N    O      F
 .5    H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.24 (dd, J= 0.8, 5.1 Hz, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.14 (s,
     1H), 7.85 (d, J      = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.43 (dd, J    = 1.6, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (dd, J =
     0.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 5.20 (s, 2H), 4.47 (q, J        = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (t, J    =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    =
     363.19.
20   Example         230.           1-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin-3
     yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
                              N
                          F
                 N    O      F
       H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.32 - 8.27 (m, 2H), 8.16 (s, 1H), 7.99 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84
     -  7.38 (m, 3H), 7.19 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 5.27 (s, 2H). [M+H]       =  385.20.
25
     Example 231.         1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-pyrazol
     3-amine.
                                                          189

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
                    N     NH2
            N
                  F
               O     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.04 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.46 - 7.30
    (m, 4H), 7.14 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 5.64 (d, J     =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 5.10 (s, 2H), 3.93 (s,
    3H). [M+H]     =  347.37.
  5
    Example 232. 1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-pyrazol
    5-amine.
         0    7HN2
      0       H2N
    1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J          = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J   = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.44 - 7.33
 .0 (m, 2H), 7.30 (t, J   =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d, J  =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.13 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 6.63 (m,
    1H), 5.50 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 5.16 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 347.37.
    Example 233.         4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-3
    amine.
           N         N-      NH2
                          Cl
.5                Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.05 (d, J           = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.59 - 7.56
    (m, 2H), 7.48 - 7.44 (m, 1H), 7.41 - 7.32 (m, 2H), 5.06 (s, 2H), 4.40 (q, J      =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.38
    1.30 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]      = 363.30.
20  Example 234.         4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-5
    amine.
                         NH2
           N         N       C
                           CC
                                                        190

         WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J                =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.55 (in, 2H), 7.47 - 7.43 (in,
    1H), 7.41 - 7.32 (in, 2H), 7.25 (s, 1H), 5.16 (s, 2H), 4.39 (q, J       = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J = 7.0 Hz,
    4H). [M+H]         =   363.30.
  5 Example235. 1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-4-amine.
          N           N'
       0       N        '-
                             NH2
                   C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 216, two products were
    formed.      1H   NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.14 (s, 1H), 8.07 (s, 1H), 8.03 (s, 1H), 7.98 (d, J           =
    4.30 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.47 - 7.39 (in, 2H), 5.49 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]          = 316.10.
 -0
    Example        236.          1-((6-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
            N-            N' NN
                              \NH2
          ON                  N
                           F
                      0< F
                      O
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.64 - 8.50 (in, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 7.93 (td, J              = 1.4, 7.8 Hz, 1H),
 .5 7.86 (t, J   =   2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (t, J    = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J =  2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.60 (in,
    1H), 5.52 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J        = 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.44 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 363.14.
    Example 237. 1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-methyl                    1H
    1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
     F     O0     "NN              N
20                     C1
    To a solution of 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine (Example 218, 120 mg, 0.34 mmol) in DCM (2 mL), was added formaldehyde
    (26 pL of 37 wt% solution, 0.35 mmol), NaBH(OAc) 3 (145 mg, 0.68 mmol) and a few drops of
    HOAc. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Purification by reverse-phase
25  PREP-HPLC gave the title compound (25 mg, 20%).                   1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.19
    8.11 (in, 1H), 7.82 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (s, 1H), 7.53 (s, 1H), 7.47 (s, 1H), 7.41 - 7.28 (in,
    3H), 5.21 (s, 2H), 2.72 (s, 3H). [M+H]           = 366.21.
                                                            191

         WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 238. 1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-NN-dimethyl
    1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-amine.
        F ON
       F      N          N
                     C1
  5 Prepared as a product of the reaction from procedure as Example 237. Purification by reverse
    phase PREP-HPLC gave the title compound (41 mg, 32%).              1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6
    8.57 (s, 1H), 8.25 (d, J     =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84 - 7.61 (m, 1H), 7.57 (s,
    1H), 7.50 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 5.32 (s, 2H), 2.96 (s, 6H). [M+H]     = 380.24.
 .0 Example       239.     (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)methanamine.
             FNN
          O NN                  NH2
     F
                     CI
    To     a    cooled   solution,   -78 0C,  of 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carbonitrile (Example 155, 345 mg, 0.95 mmol) in DCM (5 mL)
 .5 was slowly added DIBAL (135.64 mg, 0.95 mmol). The mixture was stirred at -78 'C for 1 h.
    The reaction was quenched with wet Na 2 SO 4 and stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The
    white aluminum precipitate was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 40 -100% EtOAc/DCM, followed by 0-10% MeOH/DCM) afforded
    the title compound (37 mg, 10%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.54 (s, 1H), 8.25 (d, J= 2.3
20  Hz, 1H), 7.92 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.81 - 7.40 (m, 5H), 5.45 (s, 2H), 3.85 - 3.82 (m, 2H). [M+H]
    =  366.20.
    Example       240.      1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3
    carboxamide.
          N            N    NH2
25                CI
                                                       192

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    To    a solution of methyl        1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate (Example 141, 103 mg, 0.28 mmol) in MeOH (2 mL) was added
    ammonia in methanol (2 mL of 7N solution, 14 mmol).                The mixture was heated using
    microwave irradiation at 130 'C for 20 min. The LC/MS showed incomplete conversion. To the
  5 reaction mixture was added more ammonia in methanol (2 mL, 14 mmol) and irradiated in a
    microwave at 120 'C for an additional 20 min.            The solvent was removed under reduced
    pressure.   Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-5% MeOH/DCM) afforded the title compound (77 mg,
    77%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.74 (s, 1 H), 8.25 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.85 (d, J= 2.3
    Hz, 1 H), 7.78 - 7.70 (in, 1 H), 7.62 - 7.40 (in, 5 H), 5.45 (s, 2 H), 3.87 (s, 3 H). [M+H]        =
 .0 354.18.
    Examples 241-244 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 90, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
 -5
    Example        241.          4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N-(oxetan-3
    yl)benzamide.
          N   I              H
                        .-   N
                Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.94 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.47 - 7.39
  0 (in, 2H), 7.34 - 7.19 (in, 5H), 5.07 - 4.97 (in, 1H), 4.81 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 4.60 (t, J= 6.5 Hz,
    2H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.83 (s, 3H). [M+H]     = 409.24.
    Example        242.           5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-N
    methylpyridine-2-carboxamide.
        F   N              N
     F    O
                              0
25                 CI
    IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.57 (d, J         =  1.6 Hz, 1H), 8.14 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.01 (d, J=
    7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.54 (s, 1H),
    7.47 - 7.38 (in, 3H), 4.15 (s, 2H), 2.94 (s, 3H). [M+H]   = 404.17.
                                                      193

         WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example              243.                 1-(4- { [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)cyclopropane- 1-carboxamide.
        F     N                 0
     F     O
           0NH                      2
                    C1
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10 (d, J           =  2.35Hz, 1H), 7.76 (s, 1H), 7.73 (d, J   =  2.35 Hz,
  5 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.53 - 7.49 (in, 1H), 7.46 - 7.30 (in, 4H), 7.30 - 7.21 (in, 2H), 4.04 (s, 2H),
    1.47 (q, J= 3.65Hz, 1H), 1.09 - 1.00 (in, 2H) 0.90-0.80 (in, 2H). [M+H]        = 429.10.
    Example              244.                 2-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)acetamide.
        F     N                 0
     F     O-                     NH2
 .0                 CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08 (d, J            =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (s, 1H), 7.67 (d, J  =  2.35Hz,
    1H), 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.50 (in, 1H), 7.34 - 7.44 (in, 2H), 7.17 - 7.28 (in, 4H), 4.01 (s, 2H), 3.47 (s,
    2H). [M+H]      =  403.29.
 .5 Example 245.         2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)propan-2-ol.
                      N HO
          N        N
         O           N
       0
                CI
    To a solution of 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3
    carboxylate (Example 141, 104 mg, 0.28 mmol) in DCM (2 mL) was added methylmagnesium
20  bromide in diethyl ether (0.28 mL of 3M solution, 0.84 mmol). The mixture was stirred at rt for
    20 min. The mixture was carefully quenched with wet Na 2 SO 4 , diluted with DCM, filtered and
    concentrated under reduced pressure.         Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 50-100% EtOAc/hexanes)
    afforded the title compound (67 mg, 67%).       1H   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.15 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1
    H), 8.00 (s, 1 H), 7.59 - 7.48 (in, 2 H), 7.42 - 7.31 (in, 3 H), 5.28 (s, 2 H), 3.98 (s, 3 H), 3.70 (s,
25  1 H), 1.62 (s, 6 H). [M+H]     =  359.09.
                                                        194

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Examples 246-249 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 245, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example 246.          2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5
  5 yl)propan-2-ol.
                   HO
           N-        N
                I
    IH    NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.15 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (s, 1H), 7.64 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H),
    7.51 (s, 1H), 7.41 - 7.29 (m, 3H), 5.63 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 2.11 (s, 1H), 1.70 (s, 6H). [M+H]   =
    359.09.
 -0
    Example 247. 2-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)propan-2-ol.
        N     I       I      OH
      _0
                  CI
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.99 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (d, J= 1.6 Hz, 2H), 7.45 - 7.27
    (m, 5H), 7.19 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.65 (s, 3H), 1.50 (s, 6H). [M+H]     = 368.23.
 -5
    Example 248.         2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-yl)propan
    2-ol.
           N                 OH
            > I~.     I~     OH
              ci
      H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.04 (d, J       = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.70 - 7.58 (m, 2H), 7.57
20  -  7.48 (m, 2H), 7.43 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 3.99 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 1.51 (s, 6H). [M+H]   = 369.23.
    Example 249.          2-(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2
    yl)propan-2-ol.
                                                      195

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
        F    N
                                 OH
                   CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.41 (d, J           =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.12 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 - 7.57
    (m, 4H), 7.52 (d, J     =   1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.46 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 4.07 (s, 2H), 1.51 (s, 6H). [M+H]     =
    405.22.
  5
    Example       250.          3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine.
          N          N      F
          a          N
                   F
                  0 F
    To a solution of (1-((5-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
 .0 triazol-3-yl)methanol (Example 201, 40.0 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DCM (3 mL) was added Deoxo
    Fluor* (36.64 mg, 0.17 mmol).          The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The
    material was adsorbed on silica and purified (FCC, SiO 2 , 20- 100% EtOAc/hexanes) to afford
    the title compound (11 mg, 27%).        1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 2.3
    Hz, 1H), 7.77 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.49 - 7.36 (m, 2H), 7.33 (t, J= 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.16 - 7.11 (m,
 .5  1H), 7.04 - 6.65 (m, 1H), 5.44 (s, 2H), 5.41 - 5.28 (m, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 365.21.
    Examples 251-255 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 250, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
20  Example 251.       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[4-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol
    1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
            N/          N
            O                FN
                             F
                  0     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.23 - 8.18 (m, 2H), 7.76 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.48 - 7.36 (m,
    3H), 7.17 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.65 (m, 1H), 5.64 (s, 2H), 5.42 (d, J= 48 Hz, 2H), 4.42 (q, J=
25  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]        = 379.23.
                                                        196

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 252.       2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-ethoxyphenyl)-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
                         N     F
      F   O N         N
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.23 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.90 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, 1H),
  5 7.81 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 7.38 - 7.31 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 6.96 (ddd, J        =  1.0, 2.5, 8.2 Hz,
    1H), 5.53 - 5.27 (m, 4H), 4.16 - 4.00 (q, J   = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.47 - 1.35 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]
    = 379.27.
    Example 253.          3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
 .0 yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine.
                     N      F
      0NNN
                   F
            N    O   F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.29 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.26 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 7.90
    (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 - 7.39 (m, 2H), 7.19 (dd, J     =  0.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 5.48 - 5.27 (m, 4H),
    4.00 (s, 3H). [M+H]      =  366.23.
 -5
    Example 254.       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl]methyl}pyrazine.
                        N      F
              O  N       N
                     F
                   0    F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.77 - 8.66 (m, 1H), 8.24 (s, 1H), 8.03 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.87 (d, J
20  =   10.6 Hz, 1H), 7.57 - 7.41 (m, 1H), 7.25 (dd, J  =  2.7, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.17 - 6.71 (m, 1H), 5.61 (s,
    2H), 5.58 - 5.54 (m, 1H), 5.45 - 5.29 (m, 1H), 4.61 - 4.47 (m, 2H), 1.52 - 1.43 (m, 3H). [M+H]
    = 380.13.
    Example       255.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-{[3-(fluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]methyl}-2
25  methoxypyrazine.
                                                      197

         WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
                       N     F
          N 'r
       o        N        N
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.76 (s, 1H), 8.31 (s, 1H), 8.00 - 7.86 (in, 2H), 7.58 - 7.45 (in,
    2H), 5.58 (s, 2H), 5.38 (s, 1H), 5.26 (s, 1H), 3.99 (s, 3H). [M+H]    = 334.16.
  5 Example        256.        3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl]methyl}pyridine.
        F    N           N
     F      0                    F
                      CI
    Step     1.     Methyl     1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate.        The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example
 .0 127 with the appropriate starting material substitutions.
    Step 2.       1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3
    carbaldehyde.          To    a   cooled   solution, -78   'C, of methyl     1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate        (146 mg, 0.37 mmol) in
    DCM (5 mL) was added DIBAL (52.6 mg, 0.37 mmol) slowly. The mixture was stirred at -78
 .5 'C for 1 h. The reaction was quenched with wet Na 2 SO 4 and stirred at room temperature for 30
    min. The white aluminum salt precipitate obtained was filtered and (the filtrate) concentrated
    under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified (FCC, SiO 2 , 40 -100 % EtOAc/DCM
    followed by 0-5% MeOH/DCM) to afford the title compound (69 mg, 51 %).
    Step 3.          3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
20  yl]methyl}pyridine.          To a solution of ((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carbaldehyde (69 mg, 0.19 mmol) in DCM (5 mL) was added
    Deoxo-Fluor* (104.6 mg, 0.47 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h.
    The LC/MS suggested the presence of the title compound. The material was adsorbed on silica
    and purified (FCC, SiO 2 , 10-100% EtOAc/hexanes) to afford the title compound (13 mg, 18%).
25  1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.69 (s, 1H), 8.28 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.81 - 7.39 (in, 5H), 6.94 - 6.65 (in, 1H), 5.54 (s, 2H). [M+H]    = 387.17.
    Examples 257-258 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 256, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
                                                        198

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example      257.          3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl]methyl}-2-ethoxypyridine.
            N          F
             ON                 F
                       F
                   0      F
  5  H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J         =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.51 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.18 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 7.04 - 6.63 (m, 2H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 4.42 (q, J     = 7.0 Hz,
    2H), 1.35 (t, J   =  7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]   =  397.24.
    Example 258.         3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-5-{[3-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
 -0 yl]methyl}-2-methoxypyridine.
                       N     F
                   F
           N    O      F
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.30 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.23 (d, J          = 5.1 Hz, 1H),
    7.92 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.41 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 7.21 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 6.95
    6.63 (m, 1H), 5.49 (s, 2H), 3.99 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 384.21.
 -5
    Example 259. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.
                   N'
       N               N
      0
                C1
    Step 1.       5-(Azidomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine.          To a solution of 5
    (bromomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine (Intermediate 2, 160 mg, 0.51 mmol) in
20  DMF (5 mL) was added NaN3 (0.05 g, 0.77 mmol) and K 2 C0               3 (0.14 g, 1.02 mmol).     The
    mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with brine and
    extracted into diethyl ether. All solvents were removed under reduced pressure to afford the title
    compound, which was used in the next step without further purification.
    Step            2.           3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4-(trimethylsilyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1
25  yl)methyl)pyridine.        To a solution of 5-(azidomethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine
    (directly used from previous reaction) and ethynyltrimethylsilane (75.1 mg, 0.77 mmol) in THF
                                                       199

        WO 2014/158998                                                                 PCT/US2014/021426
    (3 mL), water (1 mL), was added copper (I) iodide (19.4 mg, 0.10 mmol) and DIPEA (132 mg,
    1.02 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with
    water and extracted in to DCM. The organic layers were combined, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and
    concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-50% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded
  5 the title compound (92 mg, 48%). [M+H]            = 373.2.
    Step 3. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine.               To a solution
    of     3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4-(trimethylsilyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)methyl)pyridine
    (92.0 mg, 0.25 mmol) in THF (3 mL) was added TBAF (129 mg, 0.49 mmol). The mixture was
    stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted in to
 .0 DCM.       The DCM extracts were combined, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under
    reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-80% EtOAc/DCM) afforded the title compound
    (44 mg, 59%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10 (br s, 1H), 7.95 (s, 1H), 7.65 - 7.59 (in,
    2H), 7.42 (br s, 1H), 7.35 - 7.21 (in, 3H), 5.54 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H). [M+H]         = 301.17.
 .5 Examples 260-265 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 259, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
    Example 260.            [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,3
    triazo l-4-yl] methanol.
            N           N
                          N
                       FOH
  0                0      F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (d, J             =  2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.74 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.47 - 7.35 (in, 3H), 7.14 (dd, J      =  1.2, 2.0Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (in, 1H), 5.60 (s, 2H), 4.73 - 4.60
    (in, 2H), 4.41 (d, J    =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]     = 377.25.
25  Example       261.       (1 -((6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)- 1H- 1,2,3
    triazol-4-yl)methanol.
                          N
        F    N         N'   N
                               OH
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.23 (d, J             =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.86 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.61 (t, J  =  1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.37 - 7.31 (in, 1H), 7.05 (ddd, J    =  1.2, 2.5, 3.7 Hz, 2H), 6.95 (ddd, J =
                                                          200

        WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
    1.0, 2.4, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.67 (s, 2H), 4.66 (s, 2H), 4.07 (q, J         =  6.8 Hz, 2H), 1.40 (t, J  =  7.0 Hz,
    3H). [M+H]       =  377.25.
    Example 262.             [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,3
  5 triazo l-4-yl] methanol.
                          'N
            N          N'     N
                            'N
                       F     COH
                       F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.19 (s, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.98 - 7.93 (m, 1H), 7.88 (t, J                  = 2.0
    Hz, 1H), 7.47 (t, J        =  8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (dd, J  =  3.5, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.65 (m, 1H), 5.73 (s,
    2H), 4.67 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J       =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.44 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 378.24.
 -0
    Example       263.        (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4
    yl)methanol.
         N          N' N
              I        'N
                             OH
                 CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.22 (s, 1H), 8.06 - 8.02 (m, 2H), 7.99 (ddd, J                = 1.6, 3.6, 5.4 Hz,
 .5 1H), 7.44 - 7.40 (m, 2H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 4.67 (s, 2H), 4.06 (s, 3H). [M+H]          = 332.15.
    Example 264.          [1-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,3
    triazo l-4-yl] methanol.
                     NN
           o   NN
                     F   NOH
                   OF
20  1H  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.31 - 8.29 (m, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.88 - 7.84 (m, 1H), 7.76
    7.72 (m, 1H), 7.53 (t, J         = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.05 (m, 2H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 5.16 - 5.05 (m, 1H),
    4.49 (d, J   =  5.1 Hz, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H). [M+H]       = 364.24.
    Example        265.          (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4
25  yl)methanol.
                                                           201

         WO 2014/158998                                                                    PCT/US2014/021426
                             ON
             N-.       N        ,N
                                   OH
                       Cl
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.28 (s, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 8.03 - 8.00 (in, 1H), 7.99 - 7.94 (in,
    1H), 7.53 - 7.49 (in, 2H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 5.16 - 5.08 (in, 1H), 4.50 - 4.41 (in, 4H), 1.39 - 1.32 (in,
    3H). [M+H]          = 346.18.
  5
    Example          266.           3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[4-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1
    yl]methyl}-2-ethoxypyridine.
            N              N
                          N'    ,N
                 O                  F
                          F F
                       O      F
    Step 1.        1-((5-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazole-4
 .0 carbaldehyde.              To     a   solution    of [1-({5-[3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3
    yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]methanol (Example 260, 115 mg, 0.31 mmol), in DCM (5 mL)
    was added Dess-Martin Reagent® (1.22 mL, 0.30 mol/L, 0.37 mmol). The reaction mixture was
    allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 hr. The reaction was quenched with wet Na 2 SO 4 . The
    reaction mixture was extracted into DCM, filtered and solvent removed under reduced pressure.
 .5 Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10 -100% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (90 mg, 79%).
    Step 2.        3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-{[4-(difluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl]methyl}
    2-ethoxypyridine.              To a solution of 1-((5-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazole-4-carbaldehyde (90 mg, 0.24 mmol) in DCM (5 mL) was added
    Deoxo-Fluor* (133 mg, 0.60 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The
20  material was adsorbed on silica. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0 -80% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the
    title compound (53 mg, 56%).                 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.36 (t, J      = 1.4 Hz, 1H), 8.20 (d,
    J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (d, J            = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.47 - 7.36 (in, 3H), 7.16 - 7.10 (in, 1H), 7.07 - 6.63
    (in, 2H), 5.66 (s, 2H), 4.41 (q, J            = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.34 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 3H). [M+H]   = 397.24.
25  Example           267.              1- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
    carboxylic acid.
          N            NN
                          N
       0
           00                    OH
                    CI
                                                                202

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    To a solution of ethyl 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-pyrazole-4
    carboxylate (Example 168, 25.00 mg, 0.07 mmol) in THF (2 mL), MeOH (2 mL) was added aq.
    LiOH (1.00 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 1.00 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h.
    The solvents were removed under reduced pressure and the crude residue dissolved in water.
  5 The aqueous reaction mixture was acidified with 1 N HCl (5 mL), and extracted into ethyl
    acetate.   The combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under
    reduced pressure to afford the title compound (20 mg, 87%).         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6
    12.30 (br s, 1H), 8.39 (br s, 1H), 8.19 (br s, 1H), 7.80 (br s, 2H), 7.68 - 7.26 (in, 4H), 5.34 (br s,
    2H), 3.87 (br s, 3H). [M+H]        = 344.31.
 -0
    Example       268.            1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-4
    carboxamide.
         N         N'N
                           NH 2
                C1
    A solution of 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carbonitrile
 .5 (Example 170, 25.00 mg, 0.08 mmol) in MeOH (1.54 mL) was heated to 50 'C, until the starting
    material dissolved. Aq. NaOH (0.23 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 0.23 mmol) and H 2 0              2  (0.23 mL, 1.00
    mol/L, 0.23 mmol) were added and the reaction stirred at 50 C for 2h. Water was added (5
    mL), and the mixture was filtered and washed with water (3 x 5 mL) to afford the title
    compound as a solid (25.0 mg, 95%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.20 (d, J                = 13.69 Hz,
 10 2H), 7.80 (d, J     = 14.48 Hz, 2H), 7.65 - 7.37 (in, 5H), 6.95 (br s, 1H), 5.32 (br s, 2H), 3.87 (br s,
    3H). [M+H]      =  343.33.
    Example       269.          [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    pyrazo l-4-yl] methanol.
         N         N'N
                           OH
                   F
25              O      F
    Step    1.     1-((5-(3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-pyrazole-4
    carbaldehyde. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 127, with
    the appropriate starting material substitutions.
                                                       203

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Step      2.    [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-pyrazol-4
    yl]methanol.          To  a   solution  of 1-((5-(3-(difluoromethoxy)phenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl)methyl)-1H-pyrazole-4-carbaldehyde         (99 mg, 0.27 mmol) in MeOH (5 mL) was added
    NaBH 4 (14.3 mg, 0.38 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The
  5 mixture was quenched with water (0.5 mL), diluted with DCM (10 mL), dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered
    and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 20 -100% EtOAc/hexanes)
    afforded the title compound (100 mg, 100%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.10 (d, J= 2.3
    Hz, 1H), 7.74 - 7.70 (in, 1H), 7.63 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (s, 1H), 7.45 - 7.34 (in, 2H), 7.30 (t,
    J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (s, 1H), 7.03 - 6.64 (in, 1H), 5.31 (s, 2H), 4.49 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H).
 .0 [M+H]     =  362.21.
    Examples 270-275 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 269, with the appropriate
    starting materials and reagent substitutions.
 .5 Example 270. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazol
    5-yl)methanol.
       F     N          NN
     F    0N
          O
                      OH
                     C1
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.08 - 8.30 (in, 1H), 7.92 (d, J          =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (s, 1H),
    7.57 - 7.62 (in, 1H), 7.43 - 7.54 (in, 3H), 6.81 (s,1H), 5.27 (s, 2H), 5.16 (t, J   = 5.28 Hz, 1H),
  0 4.41 (d, J   = 5.09 Hz, 2H), 3.49 - 3.59 (m, 2H). [M+H]     = 366.20.
    Example 271. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazol
    4-yl)methanol.
        F    N          N
                             OH
                     CI
    1H
25      NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.19 - 8.40 (in, 1H), 8.05 (d, J           =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.83 - 7.46
    (in, 6H), 7.13 (s, 1H), 5.20 (s, 2H), 4.28 (s, 2H), 3.55 (s, 1H). [M+H]   = 366.20.
    Example        272.        [1-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    pyrazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                                                      204

         WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
           N "I   NN        OH
       0NN
                  F
                0    F
     H (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.04 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (d, J       = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.47 - 7.27 (m, 4H),
    7.13 - 7.08 (m, 1H), 7.03 - 6.63 (m, 1H), 6.29 (d, J       = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.40 (s, 2H), 4.65 (s, 2H),
    3.92 (s, 3H). [M+H]      = 362.17.
  5
    Example       273.           (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-4
    yl)methanol.
            N-       N'N
                            OH
                  CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
 .0 7.55 (t, J= 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (s, 1H), 7.46 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 7.40 - 7.31 (m, 2H), 5.30 (s, 2H), 4.49
    (s, 2H), 4.39 (q, J  = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.33 (t, J  = 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]    = 344.33.
    Example 274.       (4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-3
    yl)methanol.
                       N      OH
                         CI
15                Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (s, 1H), 7.68 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.56 (s, 1H), 7.47 - 7.43 (m, 1H), 7.40 - 7.31 (m, 2H), 5.25 (s, 2H), 4.53 (s, 2H), 4.39 (q, J   = 7.0
    Hz, 2H), 1.33 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H). [M+H]        = 378.27.
20  Example 275.       (4-Chloro-1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazol-5
    yl)methanol.
                           OH
            N        N \c1
                                                       205

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.08 (d, J         =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H),
    7.47 (s, 1H), 7.46 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 7.40 - 7.31 (m, 2H), 5.40 (s, 2H), 4.67 (s, 2H), 4.40 (q, J    =  7.0
    Hz, 2H), 1.33 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 4H). [M+H]      =   378.27.
  5
    Example 276. 4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic              acid.
       F    NI
     F   O                     OH
                             0
                    C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 21, with the appropriated
    starting material and reagent substitutions.    1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.01 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz,
 .0  1H), 7.87 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.63 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (s, 1H), 7.43 (s, 1H), 7.35 - 7.24 (m,
    5H), 4.01 (s, 2H). [M+H]      = 390.09.
    Example        277.       (1-((6-Ethoxy-5-(2-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
           O           N
                    F       OH
 .5
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, from (1-((5-bromo
    6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol           (Intermediate    19)    and    (2
    fluorophenyl)boronic      acid, substituting Pd(dppf)C12 - DCM for Pd(dppf)C 2.              IH NMR
    (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.23 (d, J          =  2.26 Hz, 1H), 7.69 (d, J =  2.26 Hz, 1H), 7.34
20  - 7.49 (m, 2H), 7.22 - 7.31 (m, 2H), 5.36 (s, 2H), 5.18 (t, J     =   6.02 Hz, 1H), 4.38 (d, J  =  6.02
    Hz, 2H), 4.33 (q, J  =   7.03 Hz, 2H), 1.22 (t, J  = 7.03 Hz, 3H); [M+H]     = 329.4.
    Example 278. 5-((5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
               N            N
           O             N'    NH 2
                      F
                 F
25  The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21 from 5
    (chloromethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-propoxypyridine            (Intermediate      22)    and      2
                                                       206

         WO 2014/158998                                                                 PCT/US2014/021426
    aminopyrimidine-5-boronic acid, substituting Pd(PPh 3) 4 for Pd(dppf)Cl 2. 1H NMR (400MHz,
    DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.18 (s, 2H), 8.07 (d, J          = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.69 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.62 - 7.68 (m,
    1H), 7.45 - 7.53 (m, 1H), 7.39- 7.44 (m, 1H), 6.45 (s, 2H), 4.24 (t, J            =   6.46 Hz, 2H), 3.72 (s,
    2H), 1.68 (q, J      =    6.65 Hz, 2H), 0.92 (t, J  =  7.43 Hz, 3H); [M+H]    =  357.4.
  5
    Example        279.           5-((5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    amine.
            N~-            /N
                            N     NH 2
                      Cl
                F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 24, from 5-((5-bromo
 .0 6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine                 (Intermediate      52)     and    (3-chloro-4
    fluorophenyl)boronic acid, substituting aq. NaHCO 3 for Na 2 CO 3. 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO
    d 6) 6 8.33 (s, 2H), 8.08 (d, J       =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (dd, J  = 2.2, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.58 (ddd, J         = 2.2, 4.9, 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.49 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 4.33 (q, J   =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.76 (s,
    2H), 1.26 (t, J      =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]     = 359.25.
 -5
    Example 280. 2-(4-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)phenyl)acetamide.
          N                       0
       0                             NH 2
                  C1
    Step 1.       2-(4-((5 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)methyl)phenyl)acetic acid.             To a
    solution          of         2-(4-((5-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)phenyl)acetate
20  (Intermediate 50, 100.00 mg, 0.25 mmol) in THF (1.26 mL) and MeOH (1.3 mL) was added IN
    solution of LiOH (0.63 mL, 0.25 mmol).                The reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for
    30 min. EtOAc (10 mL) was added to the reaction mixture followed by sat. aq. NaHCO 3 (10
    mL). The aqueous layer was extracted and acidified with conc. HCl. The acidified aq. layer
    was extracted with EtOAc (10 mL), and the combined organic layers were collected, dried
25  (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The title compound was used crude
    in the next step without further purification.
    Step 2.     2-(4-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)phenyl)acetyl              chloride. To a
    solution of 2-(4-((5 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)methyl)phenyl)acetic acid in DCM
    (2.0 mL) was added oxalyl chloride (0.25 mL, 0.50 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at
                                                             207

         WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
    room temperature for 30 min, and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude
    title compound was used in the next step without further purification.
    Step 3. 2-(4-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)phenyl)acetamide. A solution
    of 2-(4-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)phenyl)acetyl                  chloride   in 4N
  5 ammonia in dioxane (0.75 mL, 0.75 mmol) was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The
    reaction mixture was concentrated and the precipitate was filtered and washed with water to
    obtain the title compound (60 mg, 64%) as a white solid.              1H  NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10
    (d, J   =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J       =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.56 (in, 1H), 7.51 - 7.33 (in, 4H), 7.25
    7.11(m, 4H), 6.81 (br s, 1H), 3.90 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.30 (s, 2H); [M+H]         =  367.40.
 -0
    Example           281.            2-(5-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetamide.
          N            /   N     0
       0                 NA         NH 2
             F
    H 2 SO 4       (1      mL)        was     added     to     2-(5-((5-(4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
 .5 yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)acetonitrile (Intermediate 53, 100 mg, 0.30 mmol) and the reaction
    stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled in an ice bath, ice was
    added to the reaction mixture, followed by water (100 mL), and stirred for 30 min. Solids were
    filtered, and the pH of the aq. layer adjusted to neutral with aq. NaHCO 3 .             The aq. layer was
    extracted with DCM, the combined organic layers were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and
20  concentrated onto silica gel. Purification (FCC, Si0 2 , 10%MeOH/90% EtOAc) afforded the title
    compound (60 mg, 57%). 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.69 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J                         = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.70 (d, J           =    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61      - 7.49 (in, 4H), 7.29 -7.18 (in, 4H), 3.94 (s,
    2H), 3.83 (s, 5H), 3.66 (s, 2H); [M+H]          = 353.25.
25  Example 282.            5- {[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
          N            /N
      NO     0   7-0     N       O
                              NH2
                   C
             F
                                                            208

         WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 13 from 5-((5-(3-chloro-4
    fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile.            1H NMR (400MHz,
    DMSO-d) 68.88 (s, 2H), 8.18 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (br s, 1H), 7.79 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.75 (dd, J    =  2.2, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (br s, 1H), 7.58 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.49 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 4.05 (s,
  5 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H); [M+H]         = 373.10.
    Example         283.          2-[(5-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)amino]ethan-1-ol.
          N            /N
       O                N    N      O
                             H
             F
 .0 The title compound was prepared in manner analogous to Example 3, employing 2-Chloro-5
    ((5-(4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine           (Intermediate    51).   1H  NMR
    (400MHz, DMSO-d) 68.20 (s, 2H), 8.06 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.58
    7.51 (m, 2H), 7.28 - 7.19 (m, 2H), 6.86 (t, J       =  5.9 Hz, 1H), 4.65 - 4.57 (m, 1H), 3.83 (s, 3H),
    3.71 (s, 2H), 3.45 (q, J= 6.1 Hz, 2H), 3.27 (q, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H); [M+H]         = 355.25.
 -5
    Example 284.              2-(5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-2
    methylpropanenitrile.
         O 1              N       N
       0
               II
                  C1
    To a cooled 0 C mixture of 2-(5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrmidin
20  2-yl)acetonitrile (100.00 mg, 0.29 mmol), DMSO (2.85 mL), water (0.40 mL) and NaOH (45.6
    mg, 1.14 mmol) was added Mel (0.070 mL, 1.14mmol) dropwise. The resultant mixture was
    stirred at rt for 40 min. before being poured into water (10 mL). The precipitate was filtered and
    washed with water to obtain the title compound (85 mg, 78%) as a white solid.                   1H NMR
    (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.85 - 8.81 (m, 2H), 8.17 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H),
25  7.61 - 7.59 (m, 1H), 7.53 - 7.48 (m, 1H), 7.47 - 7.38 (m, 2H), 3.99 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 1.68 (s,
    7H); [M+H]       =  379.40.
    Example 285.            2-(1-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)acetonitrile.
                                                        209

         WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
        F   N             N
     F    O             N      _N
                     C1
    Step            1.        5-((3-(Chloromethyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol -1 -yl)methyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridine.               To      a     solution      of     (1 -((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6
    (difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)methanol          (Example 199, 200 mg,
  5 0.55 mmol) in DCM (15 mL) was added thionylchloride (97.32 mg, 0.82 mmol). The mixture
    was stirred at r for 1 hr. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford a white
    solid which was used without further purification in the following step.
    Step 2. 2-(1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)acetonitrile.      To a solution of 5-((3-(chloromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl)-3-(3
 .0 chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)pyridine (201 mg, 0.52 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added
    Cs 2 CO 3 (510 mg, 1.572 mmol) followed by KCN (50.97 mg, 0.78 mmol). The mixture was
    stirred at rt for 3 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted into EtOAc. The
    combined organic fractions were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced
    pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 30 - 90%, EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound (165
 .5 mg, 84%).      1H  NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.58 (s, 1H), 8.26 (s, 1H), 7.94 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
    7.81 - 7.61 (m, 1H), 7.58 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.48 - 7.41 (m, 3H), 5.47 - 5.46 (m, 2H), 4.01 - 3.97
    (m, 2H);           [M+H]  =  376.
    Example 286. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5((5-ethoxypyridin-2-yl)methyl)-2-methoxy pyridine.
          N
       0                    0
20               C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 55 employing 3-(3
    chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((4,4,5,5-tetramethyl- 1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)methyl)pyridine
    (Intermediate 31) and 2-bromo-5-ethoxypyridine.          1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.24 (d, J         =
    2.35 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (d, J      = 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.49 (d, J  = 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.38-7.43 (m,
25  1H), 7.29-7.36 (m, 2H), 7.10-7.16 (m, 1H), 7.04-7.09 (m, 1H), 4.02-4.11 (m, 4H), 3.96 (s, 3H),
    1.42 (t, J= 7.04 Hz, 3H);          [M+H] =  355.3.
    Example 287. 5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-amine.
                                                       210

         WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
          N            N
       0               N     NH2
                  C1
    tert-Butyl             (5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-yl)carbamate
    (Intermediate 55) was dissolved in DCM (5 mL)/TFA (1 mL) and stirred at r for 4 hrs. The
    reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. After evaporating the solvent, the
  5 material was dissolved in EtOAc, washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 . The organics were dried
    (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the title compound as a
    yellow oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J             = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (s, 2H), 7.60 (d, J =
    2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (t, J       =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.40-7.44 (in, 1H), 7.37 (t, J = 7.43 Hz, 1H), 7.30-7.34
    (in,  1H), 3.95 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 327.3.
 -0
    Example       288.          5-((5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2
    amine.
          N            N
       o               N     NH 2
                  CI
             F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 291.               1H NMR (400 MHz,
 .5 CD 30D) 6 8.07 (d, J         = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.80 (s, 1H), 7.57 (dd, J   =  2.35, 7.04 Hz,
    1H), 7.46 (d, J      =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (ddd, J    = 2.35, 4.70, 8.61 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (t, J  = 8.61 Hz,
    1H), 3.98 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H); [M+H]        = 345.32.
    Example 289. 2-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-5-ethoxypyrazine.
          N
                       N
       O0              N10-
20                C1
    To      a   solution      of    5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-amine
    (Example 287, 39 mg, 0.12 mmol) in EtOH (3 mL) was added tert-butyl nitrite (48 pL, 0.36
    mmol) followed by 4 N HCl in dioxane (6 pL, 4.00 mol/L, 0.02 mmol). The resulting solution
    was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and
25  the residue was partitioned between DCM/sat NaHCO 3 . The organic layer dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a yellow oil. Purification (prep TLC,
                                                         211

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    SiO 2 , hexanes/EtOAc (8:2)) provided the title compound as a colorless oil (19.7 mg, 47%). 'H
    NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.15 (d, J           = 1.17 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.97 (d, J  =
    1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (t, J     =  1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (d, J = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.39-7.43 (in, 1H), 7.30-7.35
    (in, 2H), 4.35 (q, J    = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 4.04 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 1.40 (t, J  =  7.24 Hz, 3H); [M+H]
  5 =  356.31.
    Example 290.         2-((5 -((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)
    ethanol.
                      N
                      N    N       OH
                           H
                 C1
 .0 A        solution       consisting       of     2-bromo-5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl)methyl)pyrazine (Intermediate 57, 37.5 mg, 0.10 mmol) and 2-aminoethanol (23 pL, 0.38
    mmol) in dioxane (2 mL) and n-butanol (1 mL) was heated at 175 'C overnight. The solvent was
    removed under reduced pressure and the crude residue purified by preparative HPLC using a 15
    85% gradient with formate as the additive. Addition of concentrated NH 40H followed by
 .5 evaporation of the solvent gave the desired compound as a white solid (19 mg, 47%).            1H  NMR
    (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J         =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.92 (d, J   = 1.17 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (d, J   = 1.17
    Hz, 1H), 7.60 (d, J     =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (t, J =  1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.41-7.45 (in, 1H), 7.35-7.40 (in,
    1H), 7.31-7.35 (in, 1H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 3.69 (t, J      = 5.67 Hz, 2H), 3.45 (t, J   = 5.67
    Hz, 2H); [M+H]      =  371.32.
 -O
    Example 291. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-((5-methyl-1H-tetrazol-1-yl)methylpyridine.
         N          N
          OX            N
                 C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 32 employing 5
    (chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-methoxypyridine            (Intermediate   30)   and 5-methyl-2H
25  tetrazole. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.26 (d, J            = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  = 2.74 Hz, 1H),
    7.52 (q, J   =  1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.32-7.42 (in, 3H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H), 2.53 (s, 3H); [M+H]      =
    316.36.
    Example 292. 4-(5 -((5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)morpho line.
                                                        212

         WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
         N               N
      0               N     N
                 CI
    A      mixture       of     2-chloro-5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine
    (Example 2, 73 mg, 0.21 mmol), DIEA (184 pL, 1.06 mmol) and morpholine (73.17 pL, 0.85
    mmol) in dioxane (2            mL) was heated at 110 C for 24 h. The dioxane was removed under
  5 reduced pressure and the residue taken up in MeOH (2 mL) before being purified. Purification
    (Preparative HPLC, 15-85% gradient with formic acid in the mobile phase) provided the title
    compound as a white solid (48 mg, 57%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) d 8.27 (s, 2H), 8.03 (d,
    J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J        =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.52-7.54 (in, 1H), 7.40-7.44 (in, 1H), 7.35-7.40
    (in,  1H), 7.31-7.35 (in, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.83 (s, 2H), 3.72 (s, 8H); [M+H]       = 397.42.
 -0
    Example 293. 5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine.
            N                 N
                  N        N     NH 2
                     F
               F
    A mixture of 5-(bromomethyl)-3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxypyrazine                (Intermediate 46, 91
 .5 mg, 0.28 mmol), Pd(PPh 3) 4 (26 mg, 0.02 mmol), K 2 C0                3 (115 mg, 0.83 mmol) and 2
    aminopyrimidine-5-boronic acid (58 mg, 0.41 mmol) in dioxane (2 mL) and water (500.00 pL)
    was heated employing microwave irradiation at 130 'C for 30 min. Purification (preparative
    HPLC, 15-85% gradient with formic acid as the additive) afforded the title compound as a white
    solid (29 mg, 31%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) d 8.29 (s, 2H), 8.06 (s, 1H), 7.95-8.06 (in,
20  2H), 7.32 (td, J     =   8.56, 10.27 Hz, 1H), 4.49 (q, J   = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 3.97 (s, 2H), 1.44 (t, J = 7.04
    Hz, 3H);            [M+H]     =  344.41.
    Example         294.           2-((5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)amino)ethanol.
            N                 N
          O       N        N     N    _OH
                                 H
                     F
25             F
                                                           213

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    A    mixture       consisting  of 2-chloro-5-((6-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl)methyl)
    pyrimidine (Intermediate 48, 59.10 mg, 0.16 mmol) in 2-aminoethanol (1 mL) was heated at 100
    'C for 2 h. The mixture was poured into H 2 0 (10 mL) and let sit at r overnight.          The reaction
    mixture was filtered, and the collected solid was purified (preparative HPLC, 15-85% gradient
  5 with formic acid as additive). Treatment with concentrated NH 40H and evaporation gave the
    desired compound as a white solid (37 mg, 58%).          1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) d 8.51 (s, 1H),
    8.30 (s, 2H), 8.06-8.07 (in, 1H), 7.95-8.05 (in, 2H), 7.33 (td, J     =  8.61, 10.56 Hz, 1H), 4.50 (q, J
    =  7.04 Hz, 2H), 3.97 (s, 2H), 3.65-3.72 (in, 2H), 3.44-3.52 (in, 2H), 1.44 (t, J      =  7.04 Hz, 3H);
    [M+H]    =   388.46.
 -0
    Example           295.      2-(1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-tetrazol-5
    yl)ethanol.
                             OH
         N           NC
                     N
                          N
      0              NzN'
                  C1
    To a solution of ethyl 2-(2-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-tetrazol-5
 .5 yl)acetate (Intermediate 33, 49.30 mg, 0.13 mmol) in THF (5 mL) at 0 'C was added LAH (69
    pL, 2.40 mol/L, 0.17 mmol). The resulting solution was allowed to warm to rt over 3 h then
    carefully quenched by adding dropwise a solution of KF (37 mg, 0.64 mmol) dissolved in water
    (1 mL). The reaction mix was stirred for 15 min then filtered thru a bed of Celite*. The Celite*
    was washed throughly with EtOAc, and the EtOAC washes were concentrated under reduced
20  pressure. Purification (preparative HPLC, 15-85% gradient with formic acid as additive)
    afforded the title compound as a colorless oil (1 mg, 3%).        1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.16
    (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J     = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.49-7.52 (in, 1H), 7.36 (d, J  =  1.17 Hz, 3H),
    5.54 (s, 2H), 4.12 (t, J    = 5.09 Hz, 2H), 3.99 (s, 3H), 3.01-3.09 (in, 2H).
25  Example 296. 2-Ethoxy-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-((5-methyl-iH-tetrazol-1-yl)methyl)pyridine.
                 N~N
             N          N  N
               F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, employing 3
    bromo-2-ethoxy-5-((5-methyl-iH-tetrazol-1-yl)methyl)pyridine             (Intermediate   32)   and   (4
                                                        214

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
    fluorophenyl)boronic acid, in dioxane/water.           1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.10 (d, J       = 2.35
    Hz, 1H), 7.44-7.53 (m, 3H), 7.06-7.14 (m, 2H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.43 (q, J          = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (s,
    3H), 1.37 (t, J    =  7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]      = 314.43.
  5 Example         297.             2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-((4-(difluoromethyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazol-1
    yl)methyl)-2-methoxy-3,4'-bipyridine.
         N          N-    N
       0 O                   F
                    F F
            N    O      F
    Step      1.          1-((2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-2-methyl-1H
    imidazole-4-carbaldehyde.            A solution of 5-(chloromethyl)-2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy
 .0 3,4'-bipyridine (Intermediate 42, 300 mg, 1.0 mmol), 2-methyl-1H-imidazole-4-carbaldehyde
    (109.8 mg, 1.0 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (487.6 mg, 1.5 mmol) and acetone (5 mL) were stirred at rt for 3
    h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM, filtered, and the organics were removed under
    reduced pressure.          Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 10%MeOH/DCM/EtOAc) provided the title
    compound as a mixture of two regioisomers (60 mg, 16%).
 .5 Step 2.       5-((2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3-fluoropyridin-2
    amine. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 256 Step 3. 1H
    NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.25 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 8.12 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.75 - 7.72 (m, 1H),
    7.58 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.18 (d, J         =  0.8 Hz, 1H), 6.62 (s, 1H), 5.21 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H), 2.40 (s,
    3H); [M+H]      =  397.
20
    Example           298.          2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)oxy)acetamide.
         N                 N
           O           N     O       NH2
                                  0
                 C1
    Step      1.       Methyl       2-((5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
25  yl)oxy)acetate. To a solution of methyl glycolate (106.47 mg, 1.18 mmol) in toluene (5 mL)
    was added 60% NaH in mineral oil (35 mg, 0.89 mmol).                     The solution was stirred under
    nitrogen at 0 'C for 30 min. then [2-chloro-5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl)methyl)pyrimidine] (Example 2, 204.60 mg, 0.59 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture
    was stirred at 60 'C for 18 h. Additional NaH (20 mg, 0.51 mmol) was added, and the reaction
                                                          215

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    mixture was heated an additional 8 h. The reaction mix was cooled in an ice water bath and 1M
    NH 4C1 was added. The crude reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic
    phase was treated with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated to afford (224.5 mg,
    95%) of the title compound as an oil. [M+H]          = 400.39.
  5 Step          2.                2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)oxy)acetamide. The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 240. 1H
    NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.55 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J             =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (d, J   = 2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.59 (t, J     =   1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.35 - 7.53 (in, 4H), 7.12 (br s, 1H), 4.65 (s, 2H), 3.89 (s, 2H),
    3.55 (s, 1H), 3.30 (s, 3 H); [M+H]         = 385.38.
 -0
    Example           299.             (5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)methanol.
          N               N
                                OH
                7N
          0             N
                  Cl
    To      a   cooled,      0   'C,   solution   of methyl    5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
 .5 yl)methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxylate (Intermediate 44, 277 mg, 0.75 mmol) in MeOH (4 mL),
    was added NaBH 4 (28 mg, 0.75 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 'C for an
    additional 8 h then neutralized to pH 7 with IM aq. citric acid and extracted with EtOAc. The
    combined organics were dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure.
    Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , hexanes/ (10% MeOH in EtOAc) 0-100%) afforded (64 mg, 25%) of
  0 the title compound as a light yellow semi-solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.74 (s, 2H),
    8.16 (d, J    =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (d, J     = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.54 - 7.64 (in, 1H), 7.33 - 7.54 (in, 3H),
    5.12 - 5.23 (in, 1H), 4.54 (d, J= 6.26 Hz, 2H), 3.96 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3 H); [M+H]        = 342.40.
    Example 300. (1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
25  triazol-3-yl)methanol.
       FE
     F        N         N'N
                            N     O
          0
         CI
    Step 1. Methyl 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazole-3-carboxylate.        The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example
                                                         216

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
    127 from 5-(chloromethyl)-3-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridine.                [M+H]   =
    427.35.
    Step 2. (1-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    3-yl)methanol.        To a cooled, 0 'C, solution of methyl 1-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2
  5 trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxylate        (172.30 mg, 0.40 mmol) in
    THF (5 mL), under nitrogen was added DIBAL (0.81 mL, 1.00 mol/L, 0.81 mmol) over 1 min.
    The ice bath was removed, and the reaction mixture was stirred at r for 3.5 h. The reaction
    mixture was concentrated then re-dissolved in DCM (5 mL), and IN NaOH aq. (0.5 mL) was
    added. The solution was stirred for an additional 8 h at rt. The layers were separated and the aq.
 .0 phase was extracted with DCM. The combined organic phase was dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and
    concentrated under reduced pressure.           (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-10% DCM/MeOH) afforded the title
    compound (25 mg, 16%) as a white powder. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 8.57 (s, 1 H),
    8.22 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H) 7.95 (d, J    = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 - 7.41 (in, 1H), 5.39 (s, 1H), 5.03 (q, J =
    9.0 Hz, IH), 4.36 (d, J     =  6.3 Hz, IH), 3.30 (s, 2H), 2.48 (td, J    = 1.9, 3.6 Hz, 4H); [M+H]     =
 .5 399.35.
    Example          301.           5-((2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3
    fluoropyridin-2-amine.
              N            F
       O              N    NH2
                    F
            N    O    F
  0 Step       1.     5-((2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3-fluoro-N-(4
    methoxybenzyl)pyridin-2-amine.          The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to
    Example 3 using Intermediate 58. [M+H]          = 497.52.
    Step 2.       5-((2'-(Difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3-fluoropyridin-2
    amine.       A solution of 5-((2'-(difluoromethoxy)-2-methoxy-[3,4'-bipyridin]-5-yl)methyl)-3
25  fluoro-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)pyridin-2-amine (90.7 mg, 0.18 mmol) in TFA (5 mL) was heated
    50 'C for 8 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and re-dissolved in EtOAc then washed
    with NaHCO 3 . The organics were separated, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated under
    reduced pressure. Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-100 % EtOAc/hexanes) afforded (6.14 mg, 9%) of
    the title compound as a tan solid. 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.30 (d, J                  =  5.4 Hz, IH),
30  8.18 (d, J  =  2.2 Hz, IH), 7.84 (d, J   = 2.2 Hz, IH), 7.78 - 7.55 (in, 2H), 7.49 (dd, J  = 1.3, 5.3 Hz,
    IH), 7.30 (s, 2H), 6.02 (s, 2H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 3.80 (s, 2H); [M+H]       = 377.20.
                                                        217

         WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 302. 5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-ol.
       O             N    OH
                CI
    To a cooled, 0 'C, solution of 5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin
    2-amine (Example 25, 104 mg, 0.32 mmol), in DMF (5 mL) and water (5 mL) was added tert
  5 butyl nitrite (150 pL, 1.27 mmol).       The reaction mixture was allowed to warm up to rt and
    stirred for an additional 7 h. The rxn mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc.
    The combined organic phase was treated with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated
    under reduced pressure.       Purification (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-15% MeOH/DCM) afforded the title
    compound as a white solid (80.48 mg, 77%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 11.80 (s, 1H),
 .0 8.19 (br s, 1H), 8.11 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (d, J =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (t, J  = 1.57 Hz, 1H),
    7.32 - 7.56 (in, 3H), 3.69 (s, 3H), 3.55 (s, 2H); [M+H]   = 326.26.
    Example        303.       2-((5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2
    yl)oxy)ethanol.
          N             N
       0
                     NXO ,OH
 .5             CI
    To a cooled, 0 'C, solution of ethylene glycol (4.0 mL) was added NaH (10.40 mg, 0.43 mmol).
    The solution was stirred under nitrogen at 0 C for 30 min. then 2-chloro-5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)
    6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidine (Example 2, 100.00 mg, 0.29 mmol) was added. The
    reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for an additional 8 h. The rxn mixture
20  was diluted with water to obtain a ppt, which was washed with diethyl ether and dried (Na 2 SO 4 ),
    filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford (41 mg, 37%) of the title compound
    as a white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.54 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J           = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.72
    (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.54 - 7.65 (in, 1H), 7.35 - 7.54 (in, 3H), 4.83 (t, J = 5.48 Hz, 1H), 4.18
    4.30 (in, 2H), 3.79 - 3.93 (m, 4H), 3.60 - 3.74 (in, 2H); [M+H]   =  372.38
25
    Example             304.                 5-((5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)-2
    (difluoromethoxy)pyrimidine.
                                                      218

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
                      N   N      F
       0                     0
                        N           F
                  CI
    To a solution of 5-((5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrimidin-2-ol             (Example
    306, 248.20 mg, 0.76 mmol) in ACN (5 mL) was added 2,2-difluoro-2-(fluorosulfonyl)acetic
    acid (87.26 ptL, 0.83 mmol) and Na 2 CO 3 (160.52 mg, 1.51 mmol). The suspension was stirred at
  5 rt for 48 h. The reaction mixture was filtered, diluted with EtOAc and washed with water. The
    organic phase was treated with brine, dried (Na 2 SO 4 ), filtered and concentrated. Purification
    (FCC, SiO 2 , 0-30% EtOAc/hexanes) afforded the title compound as a colorless oil (17 mg, 6 %).
    IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.45 (s, 2H), 8.04 (d, J            =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J  = 36 Hz, 1H),
    7.29 - 7.22 (m, 5H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.93 (s, 2H); [M+H]        = 378.35.
 -0
    Examples 305 - 306 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 1, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 305. 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-3-methylpyridazine.
         N             /N
       O                 NN
             -'
 .5               CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.97 (d, J               = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J=
    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.31 (m, 4H), 4.07 - 4.03 (m, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H), 2.65 - 2.61 (m,
    3H); [M+H]       =  326.
20  Example           306.              3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-fluoropyridin-3
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
            N                IN
                          F
                        F
                N    O    F
    IH   NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.39 - 8.35 (m, 1H), 8.34 - 8.31 (m, 1H), 8.23                - 8.19 (m, 1H),
    8.12 (s, 1H), 7.77 - 7.73 (m, 1H), 7.57 - 7.19 (m, 4H), 4.47 - 4.38 (m, 2H), 4.11 -4.05 (m, 2H),
25  1.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]         =  376.
                                                          219

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Examples 307 - 314 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 127, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Eample       307.      1-{[5-(2-Cyanopyridin-4-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
  5 carboxamide.
                        N   NH2
      O~  N  00             0
             N
                  NN
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.75 - 8.85 (m, 1H), 8.22 - 8.34 (m, 2H), 8.02 (d, J= 2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.86 - 7.99 (m, 2H), 7.42 (br s, 1H), 7.18 (br s, 1H), 6.62 (d, J= 2.35 Hz, 1H), 5.38 (s, 2H),
    3.91 (s, 3H); [M+H]     =  335.37.
 -0
    Example         308.        1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
    carboxamide.
                        N   O
         N*'         N
                            NH2
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.19 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.92 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J=
 .5 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.59 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.50 - 7.40 (m, 4H), 7.22 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 6.61 (d, J      = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 5.39 - 5.34 (m, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H); [M+H]     = 343.
    Example 309.          1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    pyrazole-3-carboxamide.
         N'          N
                     N
                           NH2
                     F0
20           N   O      F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.26 - 8.20 (m, 2H), 7.88 - 7.77 (m, 2H), 7.75 - 7.55 (m, 1H),
    7.41 - 7.36 (m, 1H), 7.18 (dd, J      = 0.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 6.76 (s, 1H), 5.41 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H);
    [M+H]      = 376.
25  Example          310.        1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
    carboxamide.
                                                      220

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
                       N        0
           N
                       ON        NH2
                    CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.07 (d, J           = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (d, J =  1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.52 - 7.48 (m,
    2H), 7.41 (d, J    =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.40 - 7.29 (m, 3H), 7.03 - 6.87 (m, 1H), 5.71 - 5.58 (m, 1H), 5.09
    (s, 2H), 4.43 (d, J    = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 357.
  5
    Example       311.        1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H
    imidazole-4-carboxamide.
                            N
                               NH2
                       F0
                N   O     F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.27 - 8.21 (m, 2H), 7.86 - 7.81 (m, 2H), 7.75 - 7.56 (m, 2H),
 .0 7.43 - 7.40 (m, 1H), 5.33 - 5.25 (m, 2H), 4.50 - 4.41 (m, 2H), 1.41 - 1.33 (m, 3H); [M+H]         = 390.
    Example         312.           1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
    carboxamide.
                                NH2
            N..     N
                  N       N      O
                    CI
15  1H  NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.18 (s, 1H), 8.10 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 8.04 - 7.98 (m, 1H), 7.89
    7.85 (m, 1H), 7.80 (s, 1H), 7.43 (s, 2H), 5.39 (s, 2H), 4.58 - 4.47 (m, 2H), 1.44 (s, 3H); [M+H]       =
    358.
    Example         313.             1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-pyrazole-3
20  carboxamide.
                          N     NH2
                  O N            0
                                                         221

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.07 (m, 2H), 8.02 - 7.97 (m, 1H), 7.87 - 7.84 (m, 1H), 7.43
    7.40 (m, 2H), 6.81 - 6.77 (m, 1H), 5.52 (s, 2H), 4.49 (q, J        =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.43 (t, J =  7.0 Hz,
    3H); [M+H]     =  358.
  5 Example       314.         1-{[6-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-1H-imidazole-4
    carboxamide.
                 N        NN
             o   N
                        =
                               O
                       H2 N
                   F
               F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.17 (s, 1H), 8.04 (s, 2H), 7.90 - 7.78 (m, 2H), 7.33 (td, J            = 8.6,
    10.3 Hz, 1H), 5.38 (s, 2H), 4.58 - 4.49 (m, 2H), 1.45 (s, 3H); [M+H]       =  360.
 -0
    Examples 315 - 316 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 198, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example      315.        [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-2
 .5 methyl-iH-imidazol-4-yl]methanol.
                   N     N
                            OH
                   F
            N    O    F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.25 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 8.11 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 - 7.55 (m,
    2H), 7.38 (dd, J     =   1.4, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (dd, J = 0.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (s, 1H), 5.21 - 5.13 (m,
    2H), 4.47 - 4.42 (m, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H), 2.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]       = 377.
20
    Example      316.        [1-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-5
    methyl-iH-pyrazol-3-yl]methanol.
                      N
         NO          N         OH
                   F
            N-   O    F
                                                         222

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.23 - 8.20 (m, 1H), 8.05 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.56 (s, 2H), 7.38
    7.35 (m, 1H), 7.18 - 7.14 (m, 1H), 6.20 - 6.11 (m, 1H), 5.28 (s, 2H), 4.51 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H),
    2.30 (d, J   = 0.8 Hz, 3H); [M+H]    = 377.
  5 Example 317.         1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH-pyrazol-3
    amine.
                           NH
                   N         NH2
             O
                    C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 219, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions. 1H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.90 (d, J            = 2.3 Hz,
 .0  1H), 7.54 (t, J  = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.45 - 7.41 (m, 1H), 7.40 - 7.31 (m, 2H),
    5.49 (d, J   = 0.8 Hz, 1H), 5.07 (s, 2H), 4.38 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 1.33 (t, J = 7.0 Hz,
    3H); [M+H]      = 343.
    Example 318.       1-[(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)oxy]
 .5 2-methylpropan-2-ol.
         NN                0
                           I  IOH
                 C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 245, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.53 (s, 2H), 8.13
    (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.36 - 7.65 (m, 4H), 4.62 (s, 1H), 4.01 (s, 2H),
20  3.85 (s, 3H), 3.55 (s, 2H), 1.15 (s, 6H); [M+H]    = 400.43.
    Examples 319 - 326 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 269, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
25  Example 319. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol-5
    yl)methanol.
                                                      223

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
                           OH
             N       N
                        N
                  C1
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 7.87 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 - 7.30 (m, 5H), 6.85 (s, 1H), 5.27
    (s, 2H), 4.53 (s, 2H), 4.39 (d, J =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.31 (s, 3H), 1.33 (t, J  =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]  =
    358.
  5
    Example 320.       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-3-methyl-iH-pyrazol-5
    yl)methanol.
            N'       N' N
                    OH
                  C1
    IH   NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.00 (d, J       = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (d, J =   2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H),
 .0 7.46 - 7.30 (m, 3H), 6.10 - 6.05 (m, 1H), 5.29 (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.38 (d, J      = 7.0 Hz, 2H),
    2.20 (s, 3H), 1.33 (s, 3H); [M+H]   = 358.
    Example 321. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
    imidazol-4-yl)methanol.
                              OH
        F    N       N\
     F    O-             N
15                 C1
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.10 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 7.80 - 7.42 (m, 6H), 7.06 - 7.02 (m, 1H),
    5.24 - 5.21 (m, 2H), 4.48 - 4.44 (m, 2H), 2.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]   = 380.
    Example 322. (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol
20  4-yl)methanol .
           N      N        OH
                C2
                                                     224

       WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3) 6 7.99 - 7.96 (m, 1H), 7.88 (ddd, J        =  1.6, 3.6, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (s,
    1H), 7.31 (d, J    =  1.2 Hz, 2H), 6.84 - 6.79 (m, 1H), 5.03 (s, 2H), 4.49 - 4.38 (m, 2H), 3.94 (s,
    3H), 2.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 345.
  5 Example 323.       (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH-pyrazol-3
    yl)methanol.
           N          N'N
             O   N            OH
                   CI
    IH  NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.10 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 8.05 - 7.97 (m, 1H), 7.90 (s, 1H), 7.45
    7.40 (m, 2H), 6.19 - 6.13 (m, 1H), 5.37 (s, 2H), 4.55 - 4.44 (m, 4H), 2.42 (d, J      = 0.8 Hz, 3H),
 .0 1.43 (t, J =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]     = 359.
    Example 324. (1-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol-4
    yl)methanol.
           N   1      N\
            o    N       N    OH
                   CI
 .5  H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.05 (m, 3H), 7.45 - 7.40 (m, 2H), 7.08 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 5.24 (s,
    2H), 4.56 - 4.47 (m, 2H), 4.46 - 4.43 (m, 2H), 2.45 (s, 3H), 1.44 (t, J    =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   =
    359.38.
    Example 325.        (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-5-methyl-iH-pyrazol-3
20  yl)methanol.
                         N    OH
                   cl
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.94 (d, J          =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 - 7.50 (m, 2H), 7.45 - 7.31 (m,
    3H), 6.13 (s, 1H), 5.27 (s, 2H), 4.51 (s, 2H), 4.39 (d, J  = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.30 (d, J  = 0.8 Hz, 3H),
    1.33 (s, 3H); [M+H]     = 358.
25
                                                     225

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    Example 326. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol-4
    yl)methanol.
            N          N\
                         ON      OH
                    c1
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.01 (d, J            =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 7.46 - 7.32 (m,
  5 3H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 5.16 - 5.11 (m, 2H), 4.44 (d, J         = 0.8 Hz, 4H), 2.36 (s, 3H), 1.34 (s, 4H);
    [M+H]     = 358.
    Examples 327 - 346 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 277, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
 -0
    Example       327.       (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
            N\              N
                               OH
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.62 (s, 1H), 8.15 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J =  2.3 Hz,
 .5 1H), 7.36 - 7.29 (m, 1H), 7.13 - 7.05 (m, 2H), 6.94 - 6.88 (m, 1H), 5.41 - 5.38 (m, 1H), 5.35 (s,
    2H), 4.39 - 4.21 (m, 4H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 1.27 (t, J    = 7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]  = 341.37.
    Example        328.        (1-{[5-(4-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
            N          N
                            N
         O0            N
                               OH
20             ci
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.17 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.60 - 7.54 (m, 2H), 7.52 - 7.45 (m, 2H), 5.34 (s, 2H), 4.41 - 4.24 (m, 5H), 1.26 (t, J    = 7.0
    Hz, 3H); [M+H]        = 345.12.
25  Example 329.         (1-{[5-(5-Chloropyridin-3-yl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
                                                       226

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
             N          N'N
         O                  N     OH
          -..
              N       C1,
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.72 (d, J                  = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.24 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 8.14 - 8.11 (m, 1H), 8.02 (d, J       = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 5.36 (s, 2H), 4.43
    4.26 (m, 7H), 1.29 - 1.24 (m, 3H); [M+H]          = 346.25.
  5
    Example 330.            (1-{[5-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
             N            N
                 O      N
                                OH
                c1
                CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.54 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d, J                 =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.85 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
 .0 1H), 7.82 (d, J     =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.69 (d, J  = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.59 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 5.34 (s, 2H), 5.15 (t,
    J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 4.41 - 4.30 (m, 4H), 1.27 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]           = 379.25.
    Example         331.        (1- {[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl} -1H- 1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)methanol.
             N          N~N\
              O\          N
                                OH
15               F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.62 (s, 1H), 8.14 (d, J                 =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.46 - 7.32 (m, 2H), 7.18 (dd, J        = 8.4, 9.6 Hz, 1H), 5.34 (s, 2H), 4.43 - 4.22 (m, 4H), 2.26
    (d, J  =   2.0 Hz, 3H), 1.26 (t, J   = 7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 343.25.
20  Example         332.       [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
             N    -       N
                 O\     N
                                OH
                       F
                     F  F
                                                          227

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.58 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J                 = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.94 - 7.83 (m, 3H),
    7.75 - 7.61 (m, 2H), 5.36 (s, 2H), 4.44 - 4.27 (m, 6H), 1.26 (t, J      = 7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 379.20.
    Example 333.             [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[3-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
  5 triazol-3-yl]methanol
           N           94
           O           N
                                OH
                     F
                       OFF
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.59 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d, J                 =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.63 - 7.51 (m, 3H), 7.40 - 7.29 (m, 1H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 4.44 - 4.18 (m, 6H), 1.27 (t, J       =  7.0
    Hz, 3H); [M+H]        =  395.25.
 -0
    Example       334.          (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-ethoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
            N             N
                O      N
                                OH
    IH  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.61 (s, 1H), 8.14 (d, J                =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
 .5 1H), 7.36 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.12 - 7.02 (m, 2H), 6.90 (ddd, J= 1.2, 2.3, 8.2 Hz, 1H), 5.34 (s, 2H),
    4.40 - 4.29 (m, 4H), 4.04 (q, J       = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.32 (t, J = 6.8 Hz, 3H), 1.27 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H);
    [M+H]     =  355.25.
    Example       335.         [1-({5-[3-(Dimethylamino)phenyl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
20  triazol-3-yl]methanol.
                NN
                           N      OH
                    N
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.63 (s, 1H), 8.14 (d, J                 =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.34 - 7.23 (m, 1H), 7.09 (br s, 1H), 7.00 - 6.85(m, 2H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 4.37 (s, 2H), 4.33 (q,
    J  = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.96 (s, 7H), 1.27 (t, J    =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   =  354.25.
25
                                                         228

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
    Example        336.       (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
         N-          N
            O        N
                             OH
                  C1
    1
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.55 (s, 1H), 8.21 (d, J                =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz,
  5  1H), 7.59 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.39 (m, 3H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 5.15 (t, J     =  6.1 Hz, 1H), 4.36 (d, J=
    5.9 Hz, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H); [M+H]        =  331.77.
    Example         337.         (1-{[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)methanol.
           N           9N
                        \ N     O
                                OH
                     C1
 .0             F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.54 (s, 1H), 8.18 (d, J                =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.77 (dd, J      =  2.2, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.54 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.44 (m, 1H), 5.33 (s, 2H), 5.15
    (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 4.39 - 4.30 (m, 5H), 1.32 - 1.21 (m, 4H); [M+H]         = 363.25.
 .5 Example 338.            (1-{[5-(3,5-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
            N           N   \\N
         O0                N      OH
         F           F
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.56 (s, 1H), 8.22 (d, J              = 2.26 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (d, J   =  2.26 Hz,
    1H), 7.33 (dd, J      =  8.97, 2.20 Hz, 2H), 7.26 (d, J  = 2.26 Hz, 1H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 5.18 (t, J  = 6.02
20  Hz, 1H), 4.32 - 4.45 (m, 4H), 1.30 (t, J= 7.03 Hz, 3H); [M+H]         =  347.3.
    Example 339. [1-({6-Ethoxy-5-[2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4-yl]pyridin-3-yl}methyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazo 1-3 -yl] methanol.
                                                         229

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
                            N
         ON0
                              OH
                     F
             N
                  F   F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.74 (d, J             = 5.48 Hz, 1H), 8.54 (s, 1H), 8.30 (d, J   = 2.35 Hz,
    1H), 8.10 (d, J    =  1.17 Hz, 1H), 7.98 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (dd, J  = 5.09, 1.57 Hz, 1H), 5.43
    (s, 2H), 4.59 (s, 2H), 4.47 (q, J   =  7.04 Hz, 2H), 1.37 (t, J = 7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]    = 380.3.
  5
    Example 340.           (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
           N             N
                O     N
                              OH
                    F
              F
 .0  H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.56 (s, 1H), 8.19 (d, J              = 2.38 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (d, J  = 2.26 Hz,
    1H), 7.61 - 7.69 (m, 1H), 7.39 - 7.56 (m, 2H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 5.18 (t, J     = 6.02 Hz, 1H), 4.31 - 4.42
    (m, 4H), 1.29 (t, J= 7.03 Hz, 3H); [M+H]        =  347.3.
    Example       341.         (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(3-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
 .5 yl)methanol.
           N  :          N     OH
                    F
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.20 (d, J              = 2.26 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (d, J  = 2.38 Hz,
    1H), 7.45 - 7.53 (m, 1H), 7.37 - 7.44 (m, 2H), 7.17 - 7.25 (m, 1H), 5.36 (s, 2H), 5.18 (t, J      = 6.02
    Hz, 1H), 4.30 - 4.45 (m, 4H), 1.29 (t, J= 7.03 Hz, 3H); [M+H]         = 329.4.
20
    Example       342.         (1-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    yl)methanol.
                                                        230

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
           O          N-     O
                             OH
              F
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.17 (d, J          = 2.26 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J  =  2.26 Hz,
    1H), 7.53 - 7.66 (m, 2H), 7.22 - 7.32 (m, 2H), 5.35 (s, 2H), 5.18 (t, J = 6.02 Hz, 1H), 4.30 - 4.43
    (m, 4H), 1.28 (t, J   = 7.03 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 329.4.
  5
    Example 343.         (1-{[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl
    1H-imidazol-4-yl)methanol.
             NN\
           N         -N     OH
      0
                0,
           F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 - 8.00 (m, 1H), 7.57 - 7.53 (m, 1H), 7.25 - 7.20 (m, 1H),
 .0 7.14 - 6.99 (m, 3H), 5.18 - 5.13 (m, 2H), 4.48 - 4.43 (m, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 2.37 (s,
    3H); [M+H]     = 358.
    Example 344. (1-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol
    4-yl)methanol.
         N         N
                      N     OH
      0
15         F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 - 7.99 (m, 1H), 7.55 - 7.48 (m, 3H), 7.12 (t, J            =  8.8 Hz,
    2H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 4.44 (d, J    = 0.8 Hz, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 2.35 (s, 3H); [M+H]   =
    328.
20  Example      345.        (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH
    imidazol-4-yl)methanol.
                            OH
      o   "N
                F
           F
                                                     231

       WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.04 (d, J            =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.51 - 7.44
    (m, 1H), 7.30 (dd, J     =  1.6, 6.7 Hz, 2H), 7.02 (s, 1H), 5.16 - 5.12 (m, 2H), 4.44 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s,
    3H), 2.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]       = 346.
  5 Example 346. (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl-iH-imidazol
    4-yl)methanol.
           I"     '    N     OH
                CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 - 7.51 (m, 2H), 7.44 - 7.32 (m,
    3H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 5.14 (s, 2H), 4.45 (d, J      =  0.8 Hz, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 2.36 (s, 3H); [M+H]    =
 .0 344.
    Examples 347 - 349 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, with the
    appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
 .5 Example       347.       4- {5-[(2-Aminopyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridin-3-yl}pyridine-2
    carbonitrile.
         N                N
      o               N     NH2
             N  Q
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6) 6 8.69 - 8.83 (m, 1H), 8.26 (dd, J= 1.57, 0.78 Hz, 1H), 8.08
    8.24 (m, 3H), 7.92 - 8.03 (m, 1H), 7.90 (d, J      =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 6.44 (s, 2H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 3.73 (s,
20  2H); [M+H]      = 319.37.
    Example 348. 2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
    2-yl)acetonitrile.
       F
                       Cl
                                                        232

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.74 - 8.86 (m, 2H), 8.17 (d, J           = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.80 - 7.91 (m,
    1H), 7.65 (t, J   =   1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.60 (m, 3H), 6.13 - 6.54 (m, 1H), 4.49 - 4.71 (m, 2H),
    4.34 (s, 1H), 4.01 (s, 2H), 3.22 - 3.32 (m, 1H); [M+H]   =  401.38.
  5 Example 349. 5-{[5-(2-Ethoxypyridin-4-yl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
         N   1          N
      0              N      NH2
           N      0'
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.25 - 8.07 (m, 4H), 7.75 (d, J              = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (dd, J  =
    1.6, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (s, 1H), 6.44 (br. s, 2H), 4.31 (q, J   = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 3.71 (s,
    2H), 1.31 (t, J  =  7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 338.21.
 -0
    Examples 350 - 362 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 24, with the
    appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 350. 5-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
           N           /N
                        N     NH 2
 .5            F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.35 (s, 2H), 8.06 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.61 - 7.54 (m, 2H), 7.28 - 7.19 (m, 2H), 4.31 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 2H), 1.25 (t, J=
    7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]       =  325.25.
20  Example 351. 5-{[5-(4-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
           N           /N
                        N     NH 2
               CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.36 (s, 2H), 8.07 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.60 - 7.54 (m, 3H), 7.51 - 7.43 (m, 3H), 4.31 (q, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 2H), 1.25 (t, J
    7.0 Hz, 4H); [M+H]       =  341.25.
25
                                                      233

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    Example     352.       5-{[6-Ethoxy-5-(4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
                        N    NH2
              F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.33 (s, 2H), 8.04 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
  5 1H), 7.47 - 7.34 (m, 3H), 7.20 - 7.12 (m, 2H), 4.31 (q, J    = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.75 (s, 2H), 2.25 (d, J=
    2.0 Hz, 3H), 1.29 - 1.20 (m, 3H); [M+H]      = 339.25.
    Example 353. 5-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
           N          /   N
                        N    NH2
                  F
 .0           F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.08 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.64 (ddd, J   =  2.3, 8.0, 12.3 Hz, 1H), 7.52 - 7.38 (m, 2H), 4.33 (q, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s,
    2H), 1.27 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H); [M+H]       = 343.25.
 .5 Example 354.      5-{[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
        N               N
      O              N    NH2
            F
    IH  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.37 (s, 2H), 8.08 (d, J             =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.30 - 7.25 (m, 1H), 7.25 - 7.19 (m, 1H), 7.07 (ddd, J= 2.2, 4.4, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 3.84 (s, 6H),
20  3.79 (s, 2H); [M+H]     = 341.25.
    Example 355.         5-{[5-(3-Ethoxy-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
                                                      234

       WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
         N               N
      O                N   NH2
           F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.36 - 8.30 (m, 2H), 8.09 - 8.04 (m, 1H), 7.65 (d, J                =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.30 - 7.19 (m, 3H), 7.06 (ddd, J      =  2.3, 4.5, 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.11 (q, J =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.86
    3.82 (m, 3H), 3.77 (s, 2H), 1.38 - 1.29 (m, 3H); [M+H]       = 355.15.
  5
    Example 356. 3-{5-[(2-Aminopyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridin-3-yl}benzonitrile.
        N                N
      O                N   NH2
                   N
    1H  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.37 - 8.26 (m, 2H), 8.14 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (t, J = 1.8
    Hz, 1H), 7.89 (td, J    =  1.5, 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (td, J= 1.3, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz, 1H),
 .0 7.62 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H); [M+H]       = 318.25.
    Example 357.          5-{[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methylphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
                       N   NH2
           F
15   H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d)              6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.07 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J   =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.44 - 7.31 (m, 3H), 7.16 (dd, J     =  8.4, 9.6 Hz, 1H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 3.77 (s, 2H), 2.25 (d, J=
    1.6 Hz, 3H); [M+H]      =  325.15.
    Example      358.        2-(5-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
20  yl)acetonitrile.
        N            /N
      O               N         N
                F
            F
                                                        235

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.81 - 8.76 (m, 2H), 8.16 (d, J              = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J = 2.3
    Hz, 1H), 7.63 (ddd, J      = 2.2, 7.9, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (td, J = 8.5, 10.9 Hz, 1H), 7.42 - 7.34 (m,
    1H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 3H); [M+H]     = 353.35.
  5 Example 359.         5-{[5-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
                    N     NH 2
               C1
           F
    IH  NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.35 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J              = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.68 (m, 2H),
    7.55 (ddd, J  =  2.2, 4.9, 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.51 - 7.43 (m, 1H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H); [M+H]       =
 .0 345.25.
    Example 360. 5-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
        N          /N
      O             N     NH2
           F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d)               6 8.36 (s, 2H), 8.09 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
 .5 1H), 7.59 - 7.52 (m, 2H), 7.28 - 7.19 (m, 2H), 3.85 - 3.83 (m, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H); [M+H]              =
    311.36.
    Example 361.         5-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    amine.
        N          /N
      O             N     NH 2
               F
20         cI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.35 (s, 2H), 8.13 (d, J               = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.67 - 7.58 (m, 2H), 7.45 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 3.78 (s, 2H); [M+H]     =  345.21.
    Example 362. 5-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine.
                                                       236

        WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
         N         /N
      O              N    NH2
                F
            F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 8.11 (d, J               =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.62 (ddd, J   =  2.2, 7.9, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (td, J  = 8.5, 10.9 Hz, 1H), 7.42 - 7.34 (m, 2H),
    3.85 (s, 3H), 3.77 (s, 2H); [M+H]    = 329.39.
  5
    Examples 363 - 365 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 280, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 363. 2-(4-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)acetamide.
         N
      0
                            NH2
                       0
                F
 .0         F
    IH  NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.09 (d, J         = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (ddd, J=
    2.2, 7.9, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (td, J= 8.6, 11.0 Hz, 1H), 7.42 - 7.34 (m, 2H), 7.23 - 7.13 (m, 5H),
    6.82 (br s, 1H), 3.90 (s, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 3.30 (s, 2H); [M+H]     = 369.40.
 .5 Example 364. 2-(4-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)acetamide.
         N
      0
                       0    NH2
            F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.05 (d, J             =  2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 - 7.49
    (m, 2H), 7.38 (br s, 1H), 7.26 - 7.20 (m, 2H), 7.20 - 7.12 (m, 4H), 6.80 (br s, 1H), 3.88 (s, 2H),
    3.82 (s, 3H), 3.29 (s, 2H); [M+H]    = 351.25.
20
    Example            365.                    2-(4- {[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3
    yl]methyl}phenyl)acetamide.
                                                       237

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
         NI
      0
                         0    NH2
                  F
            CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.09 (d, J             = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.65 - 7.57
    (m, 2H), 7.42 - 7.34 (m, 2H), 7.22 - 7.11 (m, 4H), 6.80 (br s, 1H), 3.89 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H),
    3.28 (s, 2H); [M+H]      =  385.26.
  5
    Examples 366 - 372 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 281, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 366. 2-(5-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
 .0 yl)acetamide.
         N               N
      O                N
               I~        0    NH 2
                  F
            CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.69 (s, 2H), 8.17 (d, J              =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.65 - 7.58 (m, 3H), 7.44 - 7.40 (m, 2H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.85 (s, 4H), 3.66 (s, 3H); [M+H]      =
    387.25.
 -5
    Example       367.     2-(5- {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)-2
    methylpropanamide.
         N               N    0
            O          N         NH2
                  CI
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d)              6 8.71 (s, 2H), 8.15 (d, J =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J = 2.3 Hz,
20  1H), 7.61 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.52 - 7.48 (m, 1H), 7.47 - 7.38 (m, 2H), 6.82 (br s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 2H),
    3.30 (s, 2H), 1.45 (s, 7H); [M+H]     = 397.40.
    Example        368.      2-(5-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetamide.
                                                       238

         WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
          N           /N
                        N
                           0    NH2
                  F
            F
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.71 (s, 1H), 8.19 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.78 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.69
    7.60 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.44 (m, 2H), 7.43 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 6.97 (br s, 1H), 3.96 (s, 3H), 3.87 (s,
    3H), 3.67 (s, 2H); [M+H]        = 371.40.
  5
    Example          369.          2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)acetamide.
        N               N
                          0     NH2
              N.  ci
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.69 (s, 2H), 8.16 (d, J                  = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.76 (d, J  = 2.0 Hz,
 .0 1H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.53 - 7.37 (m, 4H), 6.95 (br s, 1H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.65 (s, 2H);
    [M+H]    =   369.35.
    Example              370.                2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2,2-trifluoroethoxy)pyridin-3
    yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide.
            O                 N
     F 'F
                                0    NH2
15                      ci
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6                =  8.71 (s, 2H), 8.20 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.92 (d, J = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.68 - 7.59 (m, 1H), 7.57 - 7.38 (m, 4H), 6.96 (br s, 1H), 4.99 (q, J       = 9.3 Hz, 2H), 3.98 (s,
    2H), 3.66 (s, 2H); [M+H]        = 437.39.
20  Example 371. 2-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin
    2-yl)acetamide.
                N               N
     F      ON
        F                       0    NH2
                         Ci
                                                          239

         WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6                 =  8.70 (s, 2H), 8.17 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.87 (d, J   = 2.3 Hz,
    1H), 7.65 (t, J  =   1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.51 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.35 (m, 3H), 6.96 (br s, 1H), 6.35 (t, J
    =   3.5 Hz, 1H), 4.58 (dt, J= 3.5, 15.1 Hz, 2H), 3.97 (s, 2H), 3.66 (s, 2H), 3.55 (s, 1H); [M+H]           =
    419.39.
  5
    Example 372.         2-(1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-yl)acetamide.
        F    N        NN\
     F    O                  H2 N
                   CI
     H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.52 (s, 1H), 8.27 - 8.24 (m, 1H), 7.94 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.62 (s,
 .0 1H), 7.58 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.46 (s, 3H), 5.46 - 5.44 (m, 2H), 3.65 (s, 2H); [M+H]            = 394.
    Examples 373 - 374 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 13, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
 .5 Example       373.          5- {[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
          N         /N
       0             N ''O
                           NH 2
                F
            F
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.88 (s, 2H), 8.18 (d, J                  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (br s, 1H), 7.78 (d,
    J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (br s, 1H), 7.63 (ddd, J       = 2.2, 7.9, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (td, J  = 8.6, 10.7 Hz,
20  1H), 7.41 - 7.34 (m, 1H), 4.05 (s, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H); [M+H]           = 357.15.
    Example        374.              5- {[5 -(4-Fluorophenyl) -6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] methyl} pyrimidine-2
    carboxamide.
          N              N
       O             N        OY
                           NH 2
             F
                                                            240

        WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
     HNMR(400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.88 (s, 2H), 8.15 (d,J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (brs, 1H), 7.71 (d,
    J =  2.3 Hz, 2H), 7.60 - 7.52 (m, 2H), 7.28 - 7.19 (m, 2H), 4.05 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H); [M+H]           =
    339.15.
  5 Example       375.        2-[(5- {[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)amino]ethan-1-ol.
         N           /N
      0                N    N      OH
                            H
                  F
            F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 3, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions. 1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.20 (s, 2H), 8.08
 .0 (d, J  =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J     = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (ddd, J  =  2.2, 7.9, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 7.52 - 7.42
    (m, 1H), 7.41 - 7.33 (m, 1H), 6.84 (t, J       = 5.9 Hz, 1H), 4.63 - 4.56 (m, 1H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 3.72 (s,
    2H), 3.45 (q, J    =  6.1 Hz, 2H), 3.29 - 3.23 (m, 2H); [M+H]     = 373.40.
    Examples 376 - 378 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 55, with the
 .5 appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example 376. (5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrazin-2-yl)methanol.
                       N
         N             N-      OH
      0                N
                  C
     H NMR (400MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.59 (d, J                =  1.6 Hz, 2H), 8.17 - 8.13 (m, 1H), 7.78 - 7.72 (m,
20  1H), 7.61 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.52 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 5.57- 5.48 (m, 1H), 4.63 - 4.54 (m, 2H), 4.19
    4.10 (m, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H); [M+H]         = 342.20.
    Example 377. 2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-5-methylpyrazine.
            N             N
          O         N,
                 C1
                                                          241

        WO 2014/158998                                                              PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.46 (d, J             =  1.17 Hz, 1H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.08 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.64 (d, J     = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (t, J   =  1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.39-7.43 (m, 1H), 7.36 (t, J  =  7.63
    Hz, 1H), 7.32 (t, J= 1.96 Hz, 1H), 4.12 (s, 2H), 3.92 (s, 3H), 2.50 (s, 3H); [M+H]       =  326.29.
  5 Example 378. 6-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-3-carbonitrile.
         N
                Cl
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.83 (dd, J          =  0.78, 1.96 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (d, J = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.85
    7.92 (m, 1H), 7.47-7.55 (m, 2H), 7.39-7.43 (m, 1H), 7.28-7.37 (m, 3H), 4.19 (s, 2H), 3.95-3.98
    (m, 3H); [M+H]       = 336.34.
 -0
    Example     379.         5-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrazin-2
    amine.
         N           /N
      O            N        NH 2
                F
            C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 287, employing tert-butyl
 .5 (5-((5-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl)pyrazin-2-yl)carbamate
    (Intermediate 56). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.09 (d, J            = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (d, J   =  1.56
    Hz, 1H), 7.91 (d, J     =   1.17 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.35-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.26 (dd, J=
    0.78, 1.96 Hz, 1H), 4.54 (br s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 345.35.
20  Examples 380 - 388 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 32, with the
    appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example          380.             3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
         N/        N''N
      0
25              CI
                                                         242

        WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.13 (d, J     =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.47-7.50
    (m, 1H), 7.31-7.38 (m, 3H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H), 2.55 (s, 3H); [M+H]   =  313.36.
    Example 381.      (2-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5
  5 yl)methanol.
                    N
         N       N'   N
                 NN
     N-0
                        OH
           F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.26 (d, J     =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.45-7.53
    (m, 2H), 7.08-7.16 (m, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.94 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H);.
 .0 Example 382.      (1-{[5-(4-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5
    yl)methanol.
                       OH
         N       N
      O          N N
      0
           F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.24 (d, J       =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.50-7.57
    (m, 2H), 7.09-7.17 (m, 2H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H); [M+H]  =  316.08.
 -5
    Example 383. (2-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol
    5-yl)methanol.
         N       N'
      O             N
                        OH
               F
           F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.28 (d, J     =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.35-7.44
20  (m, 1H), 7.16-7.25 (m, 2H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.94 (s, 2H), 3.99 (s, 3H); [M+H]  =  334.42.
    Example 384. (1-{[5-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol
    5-yl)methanol.
                                                    243

        WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
                         OH
         N         N
        O1          N N
                F
           F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.24 (d, J        =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J  =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.34-7.43
    (m, 1H), 7.15-7.23 (m, 2H), 5.65 (s, 2H), 4.99 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 334.42.
  5 Example 385.          (2-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4
    tetrazol-5-yl)methanol.
         N         N'  NN
        O    -     N
                           OH
                F
           CI
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.29 (d, J       =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.44 (t, J=
    8.02 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (dd, J     =  1.96, 10.17 Hz, 1H), 7.22-7.26 (m, 1H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.94 (s, 2H),
 .0 3.99 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 350.08.
    Example 386.          (1-{[5-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4
    tetrazol-5-yl)methanol.
                         OH
         N         N
                   k    N
                   NzN
                F
           CI
15   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.28 (d, J          =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.85 (d, J =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.44-7.54
    (m, 2H), 7.30-7.37 (m, 1H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 3.97 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 350.08.
    Example 387.        (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5
    yl)methanol.
                          OH
         N         N
                   k N
      0            N N
20              CI
                                                       244

        WO 2014/158998                                                          PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.25-8.28 (m, 1H), 7.80 (d, J           = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (t, J = 1.76
    Hz, 1H), 7.40-7.44 (m, 1H), 7.32-7.40 (m, 2H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 3H); [M+H]     =
    332.03.
  5 Example 388.        (2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5
    yl)methanol.
         N           NN
                    NN
                           OH
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.28 (d, J       = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (q, J=
    1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.33-7.42 (m, 3H), 5.75 (s, 2H), 4.94 (s, 2H), 3.98 (s, 3H); [M+H]    = 332.03.
 -0
    Examples 389 - 391 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 292, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example        389.         1-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
 .5 yl)pyrrolidin-3-ol.
                     N     N
                              OH
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.24 (s, 2H), 8.03 (d, J          =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J =  2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.53 (t, J  =   1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.40-7.44 (m, 1H), 7.37 (t, J = 7.63 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.35 (m, 1H),
    4.46-4.53 (m, 1H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.83 (s, 2H), 3.59-3.68 (m, 3H), 3.52-3.57 (m, 1H), 1.97-2.17
20  (m, 2H);.
    Example        390.         1-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
    yl)azetidin-3-ol.
      O              NN
                                OH
                CI
25   H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.25 (s, 2H), 8.03 (d, J          =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J =  2.35 Hz,
    1H), 7.53 (t, J  =   1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.41-7.44 (m, 1H), 7.37 (t, J = 7.63 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.35 (m, 1H),
                                                     245

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
    4.61-4.69 (m, 1H), 4.27-4.36 (m, 2H), 3.93 (s, 3H), 3.86-3.90 (m, 2H), 3.84 (s, 2H); [M+H]           =
    383.4.
    Example        391.           2-[(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
  5 yl)amino]ethan-1-ol.
        N            /1"ZN
                          7N NOH
                             H
                CI
     H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.20 (s, 2H), 8.03 (d, J             = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J =  2.74 Hz,
    1H), 7.53 (t, J   =    1.57 Hz, 1H), 7.41-7.45 (m, 1H), 7.38 (t, J = 7.63 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.35 (m, 1H),
    3.93 (s, 3H), 3.82 (s, 2H), 3.65-3.72 (m, 2H), 3.43-3.51 (m, 2H); [M+H]       = 371.39.
 -0
    Examples 392 - 402 were prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 21, with the
    appropriate starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example           392.                2-Ethoxy-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-[(5-methyl-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
 .5 yl)methyl]pyridine.
           N           N'
            O          N N
              F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.21 (d, J           = 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.47-7.56
    (m, 2H), 7.06-7.15 (m, 2H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.43 (q, J        = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.52 (s, 3H), 1.37 (t, J =
    6.85 Hz, 3H); [M+H]         = 314.42.
20
    Example         393.              3-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-2
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
                          N
         O             NN
                    F
              F
                                                         246

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.23 (d, J       =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.42 (ddd, J
    =  2.15, 7.53, 11.44 Hz, 1H), 7.17-7.26 (m, 2H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.44 (q, J= 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.53 (s,
    3H), 1.38 (t, J  = 7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   =  332.4.
  5 Example 394. 3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol
    2-yl)methyl]pyridine.
           NAN
          Ol         NN
                     F
               N  O     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.29 (d, J        =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 8.20-8.24 (m, 1H), 7.71 (d, J  =  2.35
    Hz, 1H), 7.50 (t, J   =  73.20 Hz, 1H), 7.27-7.29 (m, 1H), 7.11 (dd, J    = 0.78, 1.57 Hz, 1H), 5.69
 .0 (s, 2H), 4.45 (q, J  = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.52 (s, 3H), 1.38 (t, J = 7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 363.41.
    Example        395.           3-(3,4-Difluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
           N-N
             /        N N
                   F
               F
 .5  H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.11 (d, J        = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (d, J  = 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.34-7.45
    (m, 1H), 7.15-7.23 (m, 2H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.43 (q, J     =   7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 1.37 (t, J =
    7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]     =  332.4.
    Example 396. 3-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol
20  1-yl)methyl]pyridine.
                     NN
           o            N
                     F
               N  0     F
     H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.22 (d, J= 4.70 Hz, 1H), 8.19 (d, J= 2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (d, J=
    2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (t, J= 73.60 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (dd, J= 1.37, 5.28 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (d, J= 0.78 Hz,
    1H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 4.46 (q, J    = 7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (s, 3H), 1.39 (t, J =  7.24 Hz, 3H); [M+H]    =
25  363.41.
                                                       247

         WO 2014/158998                                                               PCT/US2014/021426
     Example        397.         3-(4-Chloro-3-fluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5 -methyl-i H- 1,2,3,4-tetrazol- 1
     yl)methyl]pyridine.
                        N'$'N
                        N
                      F
                CI
      H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.12 (d, J           =  2.74 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (d, J   = 2.74 Hz, 1H), 7.41-7.46
  5  (m, 1H), 7.37 (dd, J       =  2.15, 10.37 Hz, 1H), 7.19-7.24 (m, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.44 (q, J     = 7.04
     Hz, 2H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 1.35-1.42 (m, 3H); [M+H]          = 348.36.
     Example        398.         3-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
     yl)methyl]pyridine.
                            N
                            N
                 ci
 .0F
      H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.11 (d, J           =  2.35 Hz, IH), 7.57 (dd, J   = 2.35, 7.04 Hz, IH), 7.51
     (d, J =  2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (ddd, J      = 2.15, 4.50, 8.61 Hz, IH), 7.18 (t, J  =  8.61 Hz, IH), 5.46 (s,
     2H), 4.43 (q, J    =   7.04 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 1.37 (t, J = 7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]     = 348.36.
 .5  Example       399.       3-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-2-ethoxy-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
     yl)methyl]pyridine.
                        % N
            ONN           N
                        F
                     O~   F
      H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.12 (d, J           =  2.3 Hz, IH), 7.55 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, IH), 7.44 - 7.39 (m,
     IH), 7.37 (s, IH), 7.34 - 7.30 (m, IH), 7.13 (dd, J= 2.2, 8.0 Hz, IH), 6.55 (t, J= 73.6 Hz, IH),
20   5.47 (s, 2H), 4.43 (q, J     =  7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 1.38 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H);.
     Example         400.            2-Ethoxy-3-(2-ethoxypyridin-4-yl)-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
     yl)methyl]pyridine.
                                                           248

       WO 2014/158998                                                             PCT/US2014/021426
             N        N
                        N
              N   O
     H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.18 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 8.15 (s, 1H), 7.58 (br s, 1H), 7.03 (d, J=
    5.1 Hz, 1H), 6.87 (s, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.49 - 4.36 (m, 4H), 2.59 - 2.54 (m, 3H), 1.46 - 1.36 (m,
    6H);.
  5
    Example          401.              2-Ethoxy-3-(3-ethoxyphenyl)-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
           N            N
            O           N
            0         NzW~
     H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.09 (d, J        = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (t, J = 8.0
 .0 Hz, 1H), 7.08 - 7.04 (m, 2H), 6.93 - 6.89 (m, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.43 (q, J    = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 4.07 (q,
    J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.55 (s, 3H), 1.44 (t, J   = 6.8 Hz, 3H), 1.38 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H);.
    Example     402.        2-Ethoxy-3-(3-fluoro-5-methoxyphenyl)-5-[(5-methyl-iH-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-1
    yl)methyl]pyridine.
           N            N
                        Nz
15       F        O'
     H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.11 (d, J         = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.54 (d, J  = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 6.88 - 6.80 (m,
    2H), 6.63 (td, J   =  2.3, 10.6 Hz, 1H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 4.44 (q, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 2.56 (s,
    3H), 1.38 (t, J  =  7.0 Hz, 3H);.
20  Example 403. 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-{[4-(difluoromethyl)-2-methyl-1H-imidazol-1-yl]methyl}
    2-ethoxypyrazine.
                               F
           N         NN\
                N        N     F
                  CI
                                                       249

        WO 2014/158998                                                                PCT/US2014/021426
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Example 297, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions. 'H NMR (400MHz, CD 3 0D) 6 8.10 (s, 3H), 7.42 (d,
    J= 1.2 Hz, 3H), 6.77 - 6.48 (m, 1H), 5.31 (s, 2H), 4.51 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (s, 3H), 1.44 (s,
    3H); [M+H]        = 379.
  5
    Examples 404 - 405 were prepared in a manner analogous to Example 299, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions.
    Example      404.         (5-{[6-(2,2-Difluoroethoxy)-5-(2-ethoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-3
 .0 fluoropyridin-2-yl)methanol.
                                   F
     F     O                  N       OH
      F
                N       O
                 N-     0
    IH  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.38 (t, J                =  1.76 Hz, 1H), 8.12 - 8.26 (m, 2H), 7.92 (d, J  =
    2.35 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (dd, J         =  10.76, 1.76 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (dd, J = 5.48, 1.57 Hz, 1H), 6.99 (dd, J =
    1.57, 0.78 Hz, 1H), 5.19 (t, J         =  5.87 Hz, 1H), 4.45 - 4.66 (m, 4H), 4.31 (q, J  = 7.04 Hz, 2H),
 .5 4.01 (s, 2H), 1.31 (t, J     =   7.04 Hz, 3H); [M+H]   = 420.5.
    Example       405.          [5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)-3
    fluoropyridin-2-yl] methanol.
           N              /N
              O                    OH
                            F
                   --   F
              N       O     F
20   H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.34 - 8.29 (m, 1H), 8.23 - 8.19 (m, 1H), 8.13 - 8.10 (m, 1H),
    7.73 (d, J  =    2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.53 - 7.48 (m, 1H), 7.43 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 7.21 - 7.18 (m,
    1H), 4.75 - 4.68 (m, 2H), 4.46 - 4.38 (m, 2H), 4.08 - 4.03 (m, 2H), 1.39 - 1.32 (m, 3H); [M+H]          =
    406.
25  Example 406.            (1-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}-2-methyl
    1H-imidazol-4-yl)methanol.
                                                          250

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
               N         N"       OH
     F       O               N
      F
                      C1
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 35, with the appropriate
    starting material and reagent substitutions. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 8.09 (d, J             = 2.35
    Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J    =  1.96 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (dt, J  = 2.45, 0.93 Hz, 1H), 7.37 - 7.59 (m, 3H), 6.97
  5 (s, 1H), 6.36 (t, J  =  3.52 Hz, 1H), 5.08 (s, 2H), 4.52 - 4.74 (m, 3H), 4.22 (dd, J = 5.48, 0.78 Hz,
    2H), 2.27 (s, 3H); [M+H]      = 394.41.
    Example 407.          1-{[5-(4-Fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-3-amine.
         NNH
         OI          N
                o,
                0
 .0         F
    The title compound was prepared in a manner analogous to Intermediate 10, employing
    Intermediate 36.      H NMR (400MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.11 (s, 2H), 7.68 (d, J        =  2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.27
    7.22 (m, 1H), 7.10 (d, J= 11.0 Hz, 2H), 5.20 - 5.16 (m, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 3.88 (s, 3H); [M+H]
    =  330.
 -5
                                    PHARMACOLOGICAL EXAMPLES
             The present disclosure will be further illustrated by the following pharmacological
    examples. These examples are understood to be exemplary only and are not intended to limit the
20  scope of the invention disclosed herein.
                                               Enzymatic Assay
             An IMAP TR-FRET based PDE assay was developed using the PDE4D3 isoform.
    IMAP technology is based on high-affinity binding of phosphate by immobilized metal (MIII)
25  coordination complexes on nanoparticles. The IMAP "binding reagent" recognizes phosphate
    groups on AMP or GMP generated from cAMP or cGMP in a PDE reaction.                       The cyclic
    nucleotides that carry a phosphodiester bond and not a free phosphate are not recognized by the
    binding reagent.       The time resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) is
    afforded by a Terbium (Tb)-Donor prebound to the nanoparticles.              FRET can occur when
                                                      251

      WO 2014/158998                                                            PCT/US2014/021426
  fluorescent-labeled AMP or GMP product of a PDE reaction binds comes into close proximity
  of the Tb-Donor complex. Due to the long lifetime of Tb fluorescence, detection can be run in
  time-resolved mode to eliminate interference from autofluorescent compounds.
          The IMAP TR-FRET PDE4D3 FAM-cAMP assay was performed in 1536-well white
5 plates 15 pg per well GST-tagged PDE4D3 was dispensed in 2.5 pL IMAP assay buffer
  consisting of 10 mM Tris pH 7.2, 10 mM MgCl 2 , ImM DTT, 0.1 % fatty acid free BSA and
  0.01% Tween-20. 30 nL of compound was then added from 1 mM stock in DMSO using the
  Kalypsys 1536 10 nL pintool. Plates were incubated for 5 min at RT before dispensing 1.5 pL
  of 533 nM FAM-cAMP for a final concentration of 200 nM. Plates were incubated 30 min at
0 RT after a brief centrifugation. The assay was terminated by adding 5 pL IMAP binding reagent
  Tb complex to each well, prepared according to manufacturer's recommendations. Plates were
  incubated an additional 90 minutes at RT and read on a Viewlux plate reader. Compounds were
  solvated at 10 mM in DMSO and tested in 11-point dose-response in the PDE4D3 assay.
                                       Pharmacological Example 1
5                                            PDE4 Inhibition
          Representative compounds of the invention were evaluated in the PDE4 enzymatic
  assay.    Typically, the compounds of the invention show PDE4 inhibitory properties at a
  concentration of 0.1 to 10 pM, typically at 5-l100%.
          As depicted in the following Table, these inhibitory properties were mirrored by pEC5
0 values ranging from less than 5 (10-5 M or 10 pM) to greater than 7 (10-7 M or 0.1 pjM).
        PD4d3         Example Numbers
        pEC5o
        > 7           1, 13, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 36, 38, 40, 46, 47, 48, 55, 56, 58, 65,
                      66, 68, 69, 71, 72, 73, 76, 78, 79, 80, 82, 84, 87, 89, 92, 93, 95, 100,
                      103,   104, 105,  106,  110, 119,  122, 123, 124, 125,   126, 131, 134, 142,
                      143,   144, 147,  150,  152, 154,  161, 164, 167, 172,   173, 182, 184, 200,
                      201,  202,  203,  204, 205,  216, 225, 228, 229, 231,    244, 250, 253, 257,
                      258,  259,  260,  261, 269,  271, 272, 278, 279, 280,    281, 287, 288, 290,
                      291, 293, 294, 296, 298, 299, 301, 303, 306, 309, 312, 325, 326, 327,
                      336, 337, 340, 348, 349, 350, 352, 353, 358, 359, 360, 362, 363, 364,
                      365, 368, 369, 371, 372, 375, 376, 377, 380, 391, 392, 393, 394, 395,
                      396, 398, 399, 404, 405, 406, Intermediate 49,
        6-7           2, 5, 7, 12, 14, 20, 21, 24, 26, 34, 37, 41, 43, 44, 45, 49, 51, 53, 57, 59,
                      60, 64, 67, 74, 75, 81, 83, 85, 86, 88, 90, 91, 94, 96, 97, 102, 107, 108,
                      109, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 128, 129, 130,
                      132, 136, 137, 139, 141, 145, 146, 149, 151, 153, 156, 158, 159, 160,
                      162, 163,165, 166, 169, 170, 175, 177,178, 179,187, 188, 190, 199,
                                                    252

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
                       206,207,210,211,212,213,215,217,218,219,220,221,222,223,
                       226,230,232,233,237,238,242,243,247,248,249,251,252,256,
                       262,263,264,265,266,268,273,274,275,282,283,285,289,297,
                       300,304,305,308,310,311,313,314,315,316,317,319,321,322,
                       324,328,330,331,333,334,338,341,342,344,345,346,347,351,
                       354,355,356,357,361,366,367,370,373,374,378,379,381,383,
                       385, 388, 389, 390, 397, 400, 401, 402, 403, Intermediate 50,
          5-6          3, 8, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 23, 31, 35, 39, 42, 50, 52, 54, 61, 62, 63, 70, 77,
                       98,99,101, 127, 133, 135, 138, 148,155, 157, 168, 171, 176, 180,181,
                        183, 185,186, 189, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196,197, 198,208,209,
                       214,224,227,234,236,239,240,241,245,254,255,270,276,284,
                       292,295,302,307,318,323,329,332,335,339,343,382,384,386,
                       387, 407,
          <5           4,6,9,10, 11,22, 140, 174,235,246,267,277,286,320.
                                       BIOLOGICAL EXAMPLES
            The present disclosure will be further illustrated by the following biological examples.
    These examples are understood to be exemplary only and are not intended to limit the scope of
  5 the invention disclosed herein.
                                             Behavioral Assays
            Numerous behavioral assays are available to assess the ability of a candidate compound
    to enhance memory formation, including contextual conditioning (e.g., fear conditioning),
    temporal conditioning (e.g., trace conditioning), and object recognition.         Other non-limiting
 .0 examples of appropriate assays to assess memory include those that incorporate or relate to
    multiple training sessions, spaced training sessions, contextual fear training with single or
    multiple trials, trace fear conditioning with single or multiple trials, contextual memory
    generally, temporal memory, spatial memory, episodic memory, passive avoidance memory,
    active avoidance memory, food preference memory, conditioned taste avoidance, and social
15  recognition memory.
            The behavioral assays can also be used in accordance with the present invention, as will
    be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. These assays can be directed towards the
    evaluation of, without limitation, hippocampus-, cortex, and/or amygdala-dependent memory
    formation or cognitive performance.
20                                         Biological Example 1
                           Effect of PDE4 Inhibitors on Contextual Memory
                                                  Rationale
                                                     253

         WO 2014/158998                                                        PCT/US2014/021426
             Contextual fear conditioning is a form of associative learning in which animals learn to
     recognize a training environment (conditioned stimulus, CS) that has been previously paired
     with an aversive stimulus such as foot shock (unconditioned stimulus, US). When exposed to
     the same context at a later time, conditioned animals show a variety of conditional fear
  5  responses, including freezing behavior. The percent of time during the test that the animal
     exhibits such freezing provides a quantitative measure of the contextual associative memory
     (e.g., Fanselow, Behav. Neurosci. 1984, 98, 269-277; Fanselow, Behav. Neurosci. 1984, 98, 79
     95; and Phillips and LeDoux, Behav. Neurosci. 1992, 106, 274-285).
             Contextual conditioning has been extensively used to investigate the neural substrates
 .0  mediating fear-motivated learning (e.g., Phillips and LeDoux, Behav. Neurosci. 1992, 106, 274
     285; Kim et al., Behav. Neurosci. 1993, 107, 1093-1098; and Bourtchouladze et al., Learn.
     Mem. 1998, 5, 365-374). Studies in mice and rats provided evidence for functional interaction
     between hippocampal and nonhippocampal systems during contextual conditioning training
     (e.g., Maren et al., Behav. Brain Res. 1997, 88, 261-274; Maren et al., Neurobiol. Learn. Mem.
 .5  1997, 67, 142-149; and Frankland et al., Behav. Neurosci. 1998, 112, 863-874). Specifically,
     post-training lesions of the hippocampus (but not pre-training lesions) greatly reduced
     contextual fear, implying that: 1) the hippocampus is essential for contextual memory but not for
     contextual learning per se and 2) in the absence of the hippocampus during training, non
     hippocampal systems can support contextual conditioning.
  O0         Contextual conditioning has been extensively used to study the impact of various
     mutations on hippocampus-dependent learning, as well as strain and genetic background
     differences in mice (e.g., Bourtchouladze et al., Cell 1994, 79, 59-68; Bourtchouladze et al.,
     Learn Mem. 1998, 5, 365-374; Kogan et al., Current Biology 1997, 7, 1-11; Silva et al., Current
     Biology 1996, 6, 1509-1518; Abel et al., Cell 1997, 88, 615-626; Giese et al., Science 1998, 279,
25   870-873; Logue et al., Neuroscience 1997, 80, 1075-1086; Chen et al., Behav. Neurosci. 1996,
     110, 1177-1180; and Nguyen et al., Learn Mem. 2000, 7, 170-179).
             Because robust learning can be triggered with a few minutes training session, contextual
     conditioning has been especially useful to study the biology of temporally distinct processes of
     short- and long-term memory (e.g., Kim et al., Behav. Neurosci. 1993, 107, 1093-1098;
30   Bourtchouladze et al., Cell 1994, 79, 59-68; Abel et al., Cell 1997, 88, 615-626; Logue et al.,
     Behav. Neurosci. 1997, 111, 104-113; Bourtchouladze et al., Learn. Mem. 1998, 5, 365-374; and
     Nguyen et al., Learn. Mem. 2000, 7, 170-179). As such, contextual conditioning provides an
     excellent model to evaluate the effects of novel drug compounds on hippocampal-dependent
     memory formation.
                                                    254

        WO 2014/158998                                                         PCT/US2014/021426
                                                Procedures
            Previous investigations have established that training with 1x or 2x CS-US pairings
    induces sub-maximal (weak) memory in wild-type mice (e.g., U.S.2009/0053140; Tully et al.,
    Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 2003, 2, 267-77; and Bourtchouladze et al. Learn. Mem. 1998, 5, 365
  5 374). Accordingly, contextual conditioning in this study was performed as described by
    Bourtchouladze et al., Cell 1994, 79, 59-68.
            Young-adult (10-12 weeks old) C57BL/6 male mice and Sprague Dawley male rats were
    used. Mice and rats were group-housed in standard laboratory and maintained on a 12:12 light
    dark cycle. The experiments were always conducted during the light phase of the cycle. With
 .0 the exception of testing times, the mice had ad libidum access to food and water. To assess
    contextual memory, a modified contextual fear conditioning task originally developed for
    evaluation of memory in CREB knock-out mice was used (Bourtchouladze et al., 1994).
    Training sessions are comprised of a baseline period in the conditioning chamber (Med
    Associates, Inc.) followed by presentation of unconditioned stimuli (1-5 footshocks each at 0.2
 .5 1.0 mA for 2-sec) spaced at 60-sec intervals. Thirty seconds following the last shock, the animal
    is returned to the home cage.    One to 7 days later, the animals are returned to the chamber and
    freezing behavior is scored. Freezing (complete immobility except respiration) is scored by
    Video Freeze software (Med Associates, Inc.) over an 8 minute test period. Treatment with
    cognition enhancers are expected to significantly increase freezing when compared with
  0 controls.
            All experiments were designed and performed in a counterbalanced fashion. In each
    experiment, the experimenter was unaware (blind) to the treatment of the subjects during
    training and testing. Training and test sessions were recorded as digital video files. Data were
    analyzed by one-way ANOVA with appropriate post-hoc tests using GraphPad Prism software
25  package.
                                                  Results
            Exemplary compounds were found to enhance contextual memory in the fear
    conditioning assay. Significant enhancing effects are seen at several concentrations, including
    0.01 mg/kg, 0.03 mg/kg, and 1.0 mg/kg.
30                                         Biological Example 2
                         Effect of PDE4 Inhibitors on Novel Object Recognition
                                                 Rationale
            Novel Object Recognition (NOR) is an assay of recognition learning and memory
    retrieval, and it takes advantage of the spontaneous preference of rodents to investigate a novel
                                                    255

        WO 2014/158998                                                           PCT/US2014/021426
    object compared with a familiar one. It is an ethologically relevant task, which in contrast to
    fear conditioning, does not result from negative reinforcement (foot shock)(e.g., Ennaceur and
    Delacour, Behav. Brain Res. 1988, 31, 47-59).
            The NOR test has been employed extensively to assess the potential cognitive-enhancing
  5 properties of novel compounds derived from high-throughput screening. Object recognition the
    task relies on the natural curiosity of rodents to explore novel objects in their environments more
    than familiar ones. Obviously, for an object to be "familiar," the animal must have attended to it
    before and remembered that experience.        Hence, animals with better memory will attend and
    explore a new object more than an object familiar to them.           During testing, the animal is
 .0 presented with the training object and a second, novel one.         Memory of the training object
    renders it familiar to the animal, and it then spends more time exploring the new novel object
    rather than the familiar one (Bourtchouladze et. al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2003, 100,
    10518-10522).
            Neuroimaging, pharmacological,         and lesion studies    have demonstrated that the
 .5 hippocampus and adjacent perirhinal cortex are critical for object recognition memory in
    rodents, monkeys, and humans (e.g., Mitchell, Behav. Brain Res. 1998, 97, 107-113; Teng et al.,
    J. Neurosci. 2000, 20, 3853-3863; Mumby, Brain Res. 2001, 127, 159-181; Eichenbaum et al.,
    Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 2007, 30, 127-152; Squire et al., Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 2007, 8, 872-883; and
    Vann and Alabasser, Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 2011, 21, 440-445). Hence, object recognition
  o provides an excellent behavioral model to evaluate drug-compound effects on cognitive tasks
    associated with function of the hippocampus and cortex.
                                                 Procedures
            Object recognition was tested in young adult mice and rats using the following protocol.
    Animals are briefly handled by the experimenter 2-5 days prior to training. Each compound was
25  administered between 15 minutes and 24-hours prior to, or following, training. Habituation
    sessions (duration 1-20 min, over 1-3 days) were conducted to familiarize the animal to the
    arena. During training trials (duration of 1-20 min) the animals were allowed to explore two
    identical objects. A test trial (duration of 1-20 min) was then performed 1-96 hrs later.
            For novel object recognition, one object is replaced with one that is novel.               All
30  combinations and locations of objects are used in a balanced manner to reduce potential biases
    attributable to preference for particular locations or objects. Training and test trials are recorded
    and scored by video-tracking software (e.g. Noldus Ethovision).            An animal is scored as
    exploring an object when its head was oriented toward the object within a distance of 1 cm
    (rat)/2 cm (mouse) or when the nose is touching the object. Turning around, climbing, or sitting
35  on an object was not considered as exploration. If the animal generates a long-term memory for
                                                      256

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   the familiar object, it will spend significantly more time exploring the novel object compared
   to the familiar object during the retention test (Cognitive enhancers are therefore expected to
   facilitate this discrimination between the familiar and novel object).
                   A discrimination index was calculated as previously described (Bourtchouladze et al.,
 5 Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2003, 100, 10518-10522). In each experiment, the experimenter
   was unaware (blind) to the treatment of the subjects during training and testing. Data were
   analyzed by one-way ANOVA with appropriate post-hoc tests using GraphPad Prism software
   package.
                                                                Results
10                 Exemplary compounds of Formula (I) were found to significantly enhance 24 hour
   memory. Significant effects were seen at several concentrations, including 1.0 mg/kg and 3
   mg/kg.
                   The specification, including the examples, is intended to be exemplary only, and it will
   be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in
15 the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined by
   the appended claims.
                   Furthermore, while certain details in the present disclosure are provided to convey a
   thorough understanding of the invention as defined by the appended claims, it will be apparent
   to those skilled in the art that certain embodiments may be practiced without these details.
20 Moreover, in certain instances, well-known methods, procedures, or other specific details have
   not been described to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the invention defined by the
   appended claims.
                   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
25 acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
   the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
30 understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                                                 257

   1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A chemical entity of Formula (I):
                   R1
               N                R2
                   R3
               Formula (1)
 5 wherein:
   Z is CH or N;
       i) wherein when Z is CH, then;
   R' is a member selected from the group consisting of: -H, -CI 3 alkyl and -CI 3haloalkyl;
   Y is -CH 2 -, -CH(F)- or -CH(OH)-;
10 R2 is a member selected from the group consisting of:
                   A) phenyl unsubstituted or substituted with one or two R' members, where each R' is
                           independently selected from the group consisting of: halo, -CN, -CO 2 R , -CONH 2,
                           -SO 2 CH 3 , -C(Rb) 2 OH, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CONH 2 , -CH 2 CO 2 C 1- 3alkyl, -NHCONH 2,
                                                                               /_CO2CH2CH3       CONH2
                           -NHCONH-oxetane, -CONH-oxetane,                              and             .
15                 B) six-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen
                          members unsubstituted                  or substituted with one or two members     each
                           independently selected from the group consisting of: halo, -CI 3 alkyl,
                           -CI 3haloalkyl, -CN, -OH,_-C(R ) 2OH, -CH 2 NH 2 , -C(R ) 2 CN, -C(R ) 2 CONH 2 ,
                           -OCH 2CONH 2, -OCI 3 alkyl, -OCH 2 C(R ) 2 0H, -OCH 2cyclopropyl,
20                         -OCI 3haloalkyl, -CO 2 H, -CON(Rb) 2 , -N(R) 2 , -NHCH 2CF 3 , -NHCH(CH 3) 2 ,
                           -NHCH 2CH 2N(CH 3) 2,                -NHCH 2CH 2OH,      -NHcyclopropyl,    -NHCOCH 3,
                          morpholinyl, pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3-ol;
                   C) five-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing two, three, or four
                          nitrogen members unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each
25                         independently selected from the group consisting of halo, -CI 3 alkyl,
                           -CI 3haloalkyl, -C(R ) 2 0H, -N(R )2, -NO 2 , -CN, -CH 2CN, -OCI 3 alkyl,
                           -CH 2 0CH3, -CH 2 CH 2OH, -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CONH 2 , -CO 2 CI 3 alkyl, -CO 2 H,
                           -CONH 2, -NHCOCH 3 , and cyclopropyl; and
                                                                      258

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
                   D) five or six-membered ring selected from: 1,2-dihydro-pyridin-2-one, thiazole and
                           1,2-oxazole unsubstituted or substituted with one or two members each
                           independently selected from the group consisting of -CH 3 , and -NH 2 ;
   R 3 is phenyl or pyridine, each substituted with one or two members each independently
 5                         selected from the group consisting of: -halo, -C 1.3 alkyl, -OCI 3 alkyl,
                           -Ocyclopropyl, -O-oxetane,-Ci- 3 haloalkyl, -OCi- 3 haloalkyl, -CN, -CH 2OH,
                           -SO 2 CH 3 , and -N(CH 3) 2 ;
   R 4 is a member selected from the group consisting of -CI. 3 alkyl and -CI 3haloalkyl; and
   each Rb is -H or -CH3;
10
   ii) wherein when Z is N, then;
   R' is -H;
   Y is -CH 2 -;
   R2 is a member selected from the group consisting of:
15                 A) phenyl substituted with one or two Rd members, where each Rd is independently
                           selected from the group consisting of: -CN, -CONH 2, and -CO 2 CI 3 alkyl;
                   B) six-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen
                           members unsubstituted or substituted with a member selected from the group
                           consisting of: -CN, -OCI 3 alkyl, -CONH 2, -NHCH 2CH 2OH, -N(R )2, and
20                         -NH-cyclopropyl;
                   C) five-membered monocyclic heteroaromatic ring containing two or three nitrogen
                          members unsubstituted                 or substituted with one or two members  each
                           independently selected from the group consisting of -CI 3 alkyl, -CI 3haloalkyl,
                           CH 2ORb, -N(Rb) 2, -NO 2, -CO 2CH 3 , -CO 2N(R)2, and cyclopropyl; and
25                 D) 1,2-oxazole optionally substituted with one or two Rb members;
   R3 is phenyl substituted with one or two members each independently selected from the group
            consisting of: -Cl, -OCI 3 alkyl, and -OCi- 3 haloalkyl;
   R 4 is -CI 3 alkyl; and
   each Rb is independently -H or -CH3;
30 wherein the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of compounds of Formula
   (I), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of Formula (I).
   2. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is CH.
   3. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is N.
                                                                     259

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   4. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of -H,
   -CH 3 , and -CF 3.
   5. A chemical entity as in claim 3, wherein R 4 is -CH 3 or -CH 2CH 3 .
   6. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein Y is -CH 2 -, or -CH(F)-.
 5 7. A chemical entity as in claim 6, wherein Y is -CH 2 -.
   8. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is CH and R2 is                                RG; where R' is a
   member selected from the group consisting of: -F, -CN, -CO 2 H, -CONH 2 , -SO 2 CH 3 ,
   -C(CH 3) 2 0H, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CONH 2 , -CH 2 CO 2 CH 3 , -CH 2CO 2CH 2CH 3 , -NHCONH 2 ,
                                                                / co2)CH2CH3,      CONH2
   -NHCONH-oxetane, -CONH-oxetane,                                O      andO
                                                                         IN
10 9. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R2 is                          Re; and R' is selected from -F,
   -CONH 2 , -CH 2 CONH 2 , -CH 2NH 2 , -C(CH 3) 2 0H, -SO 2 CH3, and -NHCONH 2.
   10. A chemical entity as in claim 3, wherein R 2 is 4-cyanophenyl, 4-phenylamide or 4
   phenylcarboxylic acid methyl ester.
   11. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is CH and R 2 is pyridine, unsubstituted or
15 substituted with one or two members each independently selected from the group consisting of
   -F, -C 1 .3 alkyl, -C 1 .3 haloalkyl, -OC 1 .3 alkyl, -OCH 2cyclopropyl, -CN, -N(Rb) 2 , -CH 2NH 2 ,
   -CH 2OH, -CO 2H, -CON(R )2, and -C(CH 3) 2 0H.
   12. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is CH and R2 is                            N   Rd; where Rd is
   selected from the group consisting of: -CH 3, -CF 3 , -CN, -N(Rb) 2 , -CO 2H, -CON(R )2,
20 -OCI 3 alkyl, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2OH, -C(CH 3) 2 0H, -OCH2cyclopropyl, and -OCH(CH 3) 2 .
   13. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein Z is CH and R2 is                     N   Rd;  where Rd is -CH 3 ,
   CF 3 , -NH 2 , -NHCH 3, -N(CH 3) 2, -CONH 2 , -CONHCH 3, -CON(CH 3) 2 , -OC1. 3 alkyl, -CH 2 OH,
   -C(CH 3) 2 0H, or -OCH 2cyclopropyl.
   14. A chemical entity as in claim 3, wherein R2 is                       N Rd  ; where Rd is -CN or -CONH 2.
                                                                  260

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   15. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R 2 is selected from the group consisting of
   pyrazine, pyridazine and pyrimidine; where pyrazine is optionally unsubstituted or substituted
   with -CI 3 alkyl, -OCI 3 alkyl, -N(R )2, or -NHCH 2CH 2OH;                   pyridazine is optionally
   unsubstituted or substituted with -CI 3 alkyl; and pyrimidine is optionally substituted with a
 5 member selected from the group consisting of: -H, -Cl, -C 1.3 alkyl, -CN,
   -OH, -OCI 3 alkyl, -OCI 3 haloalkyl, -CO 2H, -CON(R)2, -C(R ) 2 CONH 2 , -C(R ) 2 0H,
   -C(R ) 2 CN, -CH 2CH 2N(CH 3) 2 , -OCH 2 C(R) 2 0H, -OCH 2CONH 2, -N(R )2, -NHCH 2CF 3 ,
   -NHCH(CH 3) 2 , -NHCH 2CH 2OH, -NHcyclopropyl, -NHCOCH 3, morpholinyl,
   pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3-ol.
                                                                             C,(R'e1
10 16. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R2 is                      N         , where each Re is
   independently selected from the group conssitng of -H, -Cl, -CI 3alkyl, -CN, -OCH 3 ,
   -OC1. 3haloalkyl, -CO 2 H, -CONH 2, -C(R ) 2CONH 2, -C(Rb) 2 OH, -C(Rb) 2 CN,
   -CH 2 CH 2N(CH 3) 2 , -OCH 2 C(Rb) 2 OH, -OCH 2CONH 2 , -N(R          )2, -NHCH 2 CF 3 , -NHCH(CH 3 ) 2,
   -NHCH 2CH 2OH, -NHcyclopropyl, -NHCOCH3 , morpholinyl, pyrrolidin-3-ol, and azetidin-3
15 ol.
   17. A chemical entity as in claim 3, wherein R2 is               N R,     where Re is selected from the
   group conssitng of -OCH 3 , -CN, -CONH 2, -NH 2 ,
   -NHCH 3, -NHCH 2CH 2OH, and -NHcyclopropyl.
   18. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R 2 is                       where R' is selected from the
20 group conssitng of: -H, -Cl, -CH 3, -CN, -OH, -OCH 3,
   -OCHF2 , -NH 2, -NHCH 3 , -N(CH 3) 2 , -NHCH 2 CF 3, -NHcyclopropyl, -C(CH 3 ) 20H, -CONH 2,
   -CONHCH 3 , and -CON(CH 3 ) 2.
   19. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R 2 is selected from the group consisting of
   imidazole, pyrazole, triazole, and tetrazole, where each is unsubstituted or substituted with one
25 or two members each independently selected from the group consisting of: -Cl, -CH 3 ,
   -CHF 2, -CF 3, -CH 2OH, -CH 2 CN, -CH 2CONH 2 , -CH 2CH 2OH, -NH 2, -NO 2 , -CN,
   -CO 2 CI- 3 alkyl, -CO 2 H, -CONH 2, and -NHCOCH 3.
                                                                261

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
                                                                    /N'    N
   20. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R 2 is                       R, where Rfis a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -H, -Cl, -CH 3 , -NO 2 , -NH 2, -NHCOCH 3 , -CH 2OH,
   -CN, -CONH 2 , -CO 2 H, and -CO 2 CH 2 CH 3.
                                                                    !N'    N
   21. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R 2 is                       R', where Rfis a member selected
 5 from the group consisting of: -H, -NH 2 , and -CH 2OH.
                                                                     /N'~
                                                                        A \N
   22. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R is                        R9,  where R9 is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -H, -CH 3, -CH 2 OH, -CONH 2, and -NH 2.
   23. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R2 is 1H-tetrazole, 2H-tetrazole, 1,2-oxazole, 1,3
   thiazole, optionally unsubstituted or substituted with a member independently selected from
10 the group consisting of: -CH 3, -CH 2OH, -CH 2CH 2OH, and -NH 2 .
   24. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R2 is selected from the group consisting of 1,2,3
   triazole and 1,2,4-triazole, each unsubstituted or substituted with a member independently
   selected from the group consisting of: -CH 3, -CH 2F, -CHF 2 , -CF 3 , -OCH 3 ,
   -OCH 2CH 3, -CN, -CH 2CN, -CH 2CONH 2 , -C(Rb)OH, -CH 2 0CH3, N(Rb) 2 , -NO2 , -CO 2CH 3,
15 -CONH 2, cyclopropyl and -CH 2NH 2 .
   25. A chemical entity as in claim 1, wherein R2 is                   N,        where Rh is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -H, -CH 3, -CF 3 , -CH 2F, -CHF 2 , -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3,
   -CH 2OH, -C(CH 3) 2OH, -CH 20CH 3, -NO 2 , -NH 2 , -NHCH 3 , -N(CH 3)2 , -CN, -CH 2 CN,
   -CH 2 CONH 2 , -CONH 2 , -CO 2 CH 3 , and -cyclopropyl.
                                                                        N'N
20 26. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R 2 is R                    N,   where R is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -H, -CH 3, -CF 3, -OCH 3 , -CH 2(OH), -C(CH 3) 2OH, -CH 20CH 3,
   -CO 2 CH 3, and -NO2 .
                                                                        /N
   27. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R2 is                       Rk,  where Rk is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -H, -CH 3, -CF 3 , -CH 2F, -CHF 2 , -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3,
                                                                262

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   -CH 2OH, -C(CH 3) 2 0H, -CH 20CH 3, -NO 2 , -NH 2 , -NHCH 3 , -N(CH 3)2 , -CN, -CONH 2 ,
   -CO 2 CH 3 , and -cyclopropyl.
   28. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R3 is                                    -'     , where Rm is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -Cl,
 5 -F, -CH 3, -CHF 2 , -CF 3, -CN, -OCH 3, -CH 2OH, -OCH 2 CH 3 , -OCF 3 , -OCHF2 , -N(CH 3) 2,
   -SO 2CH 3, -OCH(CH 3) 2,                                        o    and
   29. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R3 is a member selected from the group
   consisting                of:      3-chlorophenyl,                 3-cyanophenyl,    3-fluorophenyl,   3-methylphenyl,     3
10 (trifluoromethyl)phenyl, 3-methoxyphenyl, 3-ethoxyphenyl, 3-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl, 3
   (difluoromethoxy)phenyl,                                     3-(difluoromethyl)phenyl,      3-(dimethylamino)phenyl,      4
   fluorophenyl, 4-chlorophenyl, 5-chloropyridin-3-yl, 3,4-difluorophenyl, 3,5-difluorophenyl,
   (3-fluoro-5-methoxyphenyl,                                     3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl,    4-chloro-3-fluorophenyl,     3,4
   dichlorophenyl,                     4-fluoro-3-methylphenyl,                 4-fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl      and 3-ethoxy-4
15 fluorophenyl.
   30. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R3 is                                       N   ,where R" is a member selected
   from the group consisting of: -Cl, -CH 3 , -CF 3 ,
   -OCH 3, -OCH 2 CH 3, -OCHF 2, -OCF 3 and -CN.
   31. A chemical entity as in claim 2, wherein R4 is a member selected from the group
20 consisting of -CH 3, -CH 2CH 3 , -CH(CH 3) 2, and -CHF 2.
   32. A chemical entity, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from the group
   consisting of:
   5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   2-Chloro-5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine;
25 {2-[(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino] ethyl} dimethylamine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(5-methylpyridin-3-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
30 2-Methoxy-3-(2-methylpyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
                                                                               263

   11:rbr Inroou NRPortl\DCC\RBR\16704567-Idoc,,-26 03 2018
    {3-[2-Methoxy-5 -(1 H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridin-3 -yl]phenyl} methanol;
   3 -(3 -Methanesulfonylphenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -(1 H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3 -(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5 -(1 H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3 -(6-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5 -(1 H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
 5 2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3 -(3 -methylphenyl)-5 -(1 H-i ,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   S-({6-[3 -(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5 -ethoxypyrazin-2-yl} methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4-fluorophenyl)methanol;
    1-[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] -1-(4-fluorophenyl)ethan- 1-ol;
   [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)methanol;
10  { [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4-fluorophenyl)methy} (methyl)amine;
   [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4-fluorophenyl)methanamine;
    { [5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl] (4-fluorophenyl)methy} dimethylamine;
   3-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-5 -[fluoro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl] -2-methoxypyridine;
   4- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} benzoic acid;
15 5-{[6-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-5 -methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl} pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   5- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidine-2-carboxylic acid;
   5- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   5- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2-amine;
   (4- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} phenyl)urea;
20 4- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} benzamide;
   3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5 -(1 H-pyrazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   5- {[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5 -(3 -methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyridin-2-amine;
   1-(4- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} phenyl)-3 -(oxetan-3 -yl)urea;
25 3-(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -[(6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl)methyl]pyridine;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyridin-2-amine;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} -N,N-dimethylpyridin-2-amine;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} -1,3 -thiazol-2-amine;
30 (2- {[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} phenyl)methanol;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   5-{[5 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2-amine;
                                                            264

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(propan-2-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
   amine
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2
 5 amine;
   N-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(4-methanesulfonylphenyl)methyl]pyridine;
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(2-methoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
10 2-[5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2-yl]propan
   2-ol;
   3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -{[6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyridine;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3
   yl]methyl}pyridine;
15 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl]pyridine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl} -1-methyl-1,2-dihydropyridin-2-one;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxylic acid;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(2-methoxypyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]pyrazine;
20 5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-methylpyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4-yl)methyl]pyrazine;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine;
25 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(2,6-dimethylpyridin-4-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carbonitrile;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea;
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
30 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxylic       acid;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic       acid;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzamide;
                                                                265

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea;
   1-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl} phenyl)-3-(oxetan-3-yl)urea;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine;         and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
 5 33. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   2-Chloro-5-{[5-(3-chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine;
   {2-[(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
10 yl)amino]ethyl} dimethylamine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(6-methoxypyridin-2-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(5-methylpyridin-3-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(2-methylpyridin-4-yl)-5-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;
15 {3-[2-Methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol- I -ylmethyl)pyridin-3-yl]phenyl} methanol;
   3-(3-Methanesulfonylphenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;
   2-Methoxy-3-(6-methylpyridin-2-yl)-5-(iH-1,2,4-triazol-1 -ylmethyl)pyridine;               and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
20 34. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   2-(Difluoromethoxy)-3-(3-methylphenyl)-5-(1 H-1,2,4-triazol- I -ylmethyl)pyridine;
   5-({6-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-5-ethoxypyrazin-2-yl}methyl)pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanol;
25 1-[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]-1 -(4-fluorophenyl)ethan- I -ol;
   [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)methanol;
   {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methyl} (methyl)amine;
   [5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methanamine;
   {[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl](4-fluorophenyl)methyl} dimethylamine;
30 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[fluoro(4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic acid; and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
                                                                266

    1:
     \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   35. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxylic acid;
 5 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzamide;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-(1H-pyrazol-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
10 5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine;
    1-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)-3-(oxetan-3-yl)urea;       and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
   36. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
15 the group consisting of:
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl]pyridine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl} -N,N-dimethylpyridin-2-amine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
20 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl} -1,3-thiazol-2-amine;
   (2-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanol;
   5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[5-(3-Fluorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carbonitrile;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
25 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
   37. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(propan-2-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl]methyl} pyrimidin-2
30 amine
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-[3-(oxetan-3-yloxy)phenyl]pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2
   amine;
                                                                 267

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   N-(5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-yl)acetamide;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(4-methanesulfonylphenyl)methyl]pyridine;
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(2-methoxypyridin-4-yl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-({5-[2-(Difluoromethoxy)pyridin-4-yl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2-amine;
 5 2-[5-({5-[3-(Difluoromethoxy)phenyl]-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl}methyl)pyrimidin-2-yl]propan
   2-ol;
   3 -(3 -Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5 -{[6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3 -yl]methyl} pyridine;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-{[6-(propan-2-yloxy)pyridin-3
   yl]methyl}pyridine;
10 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-(difluoromethoxy)-5-[(6-propoxypyridin-3-yl)methyl]pyridine;          and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof
   38. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}-1-methyl-1,2-dihydropyridin-2-one;
15 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-(pyridin-4-ylmethyl)pyridine;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-(difluoromethoxy)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carboxylic      acid;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(2-methoxypyrimidin-5-yl)methyl]pyrazine;
   5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-methylpyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[6-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-methoxypyrazin-2-yl]methyl}-N-cyclopropylpyrimidin-2-amine;
20 3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-2-methoxy-5-[(1-methyl-iH-pyrazol-4-yl)methyl]pyrazine;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridin-2-amine;
   3-(3-Chlorophenyl)-5-[(2,6-dimethylpyridin-4-yl)methyl]-2-methoxypyridine;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyridine-2-carbonitrile;      and
25 pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
   39. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
   5-{[6-(Difluoromethoxy)-5-(3-methoxyphenyl)pyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-amine;
30 5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxamide;
   5-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}pyrimidine-2-carboxylic         acid; and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
                                                                268

    1:
    \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
   40. A chemical entity as in claim 32, wherein the chemical entity is a compound selected from
   the group consisting of:
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzoic acid;
   4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}benzamide;
 5 (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)urea;
   1-(4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)-3-(oxetan-3-yl)urea;
   (4-{[5-(3-Chlorophenyl)-6-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl}phenyl)methanamine;            and
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
   41. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of at least one chemical
10 entity of claim 1 or 32.
   42. A method of treating a disease, disorder, or medical condition mediated by a PDE4
   enzyme, comprising administering to an animal in need of such treatment an effective amount
   of a chemical entity of claim 1 or claim 32.
   43. The method of Claim 42, wherein the disorder is selected from one or more of the group
15 selected from Alzheimer's Disease, Age Associated Memory Impairment (AAMI), Age
   Associated Cognitive Decline, vascular dementia, delirium, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's
   disease, Pick's disease, mental retardation, cerebrovascular disease, an affective disorder,
   psychotic disorders, neurotic disorders, attention deficit disorder, subdural hematoma, normal
   pressure hydrocephalus, brain tumor, stroke, cognitive impairment due to sleep deprivation,
20 intellectual and developmental disabilitie; multiple sclerosis; inflammatory bowel disease;
   rheumatoid arthritis; COPD, asthma, allergic rhinitis, pulmonary artery hypertension; renal
   diseases; allergic skin diseases and psoriasis.
   44. A method for modulating PDE4 enzyme activity, comprising exposing a PDE4 enzyme to
   an effective amount of a chemical entity of claim 1 or claim 32.
25 45. The method of claim 44, wherein said one or more PDE4 enzymes are in a human subject.
   46. The method of Claim 45, wherein said human subject is suffering from or is diagnosed
   with a disease, disorder, or medical condition mediated by PDE4 enzymatic activity.
   47. The method of Claim 46, wherein said disease, disorder, or medical condition is of the
   central nervous system selected from the group consisting of age-associated memory
30 impairment, mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Pick's
   disease.
   48. A chemical entity as in claim 1 or claim 32, further comprising an isotopic label.
                                                                269

   1:
   \rbr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\16704567_l.docx-26 03/2018
  49. The a chemical entity as in claim 48, wherein the isotopic label includes at least one atom
  selected from Hydrogen-2, Hydrogen-3, Carbon-11, Nitrogen-13, Fluorine-18, and Iodine
  123.
  50. A method for modulating PDE4 enzyme activity, comprising exposing a PDE4 enzyme to
5 an effective amount of a chemical entity of claim 39 or claim 40.
                                                               270

