                                          ABSTRACT
         A device for providing a new answer to a new question associated with an issue
using a cognitive model, the device including one or more processors that receive issue
resolution information associated with the cognitive model, the issue resolution information
including an item of issue resolution information that describes an issue and a resolution
corresponding to the issue, analyze domain hierarchy information, associated with a plurality
of domain hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information, automatically determine,
based on analyzing the domain hierarchy information and the item of issue resolution
information, that the item of issue resolution is to be assigned to a particular domain
hierarchy, the particular domain hierarchy being one of the plurality of domain hierarchies,
automatically assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular domain
hierarchy based on automatically determining that the item of issue resolution is to be
assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the assigned item of issue resolution information
being provided to a first user via a first user device for reviewing and/or modifying the
particular domain hierarchy, analyze, using a paraphrasing technique, the item of issue
resolution information, provide, based on assigning the item of issue resolution information
to the particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user device associated with a
second user that the item of issue resolution information has been assigned to the particular
domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user, automatically generate a set
of questions and an answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information, the
generating of the set of questions with the answer based on analyzing the item of issue
resolution information using the paraphrasing technique, approve the set of questions and
the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information, the approving of the
set of questions and the answer based on input provided by a third user via a third user
device, the third user different from the first user and the second user, generate, based on
approving the set of questions and the answer, a set of question/answer (QA) pairs for the
set of questions and the answer, each QA pair, of the set of QA pairs, being associated with
a question, of the set of questions, and the answer, create a data corpus including the set of
QA pairs, provide the data corpus to cause the cognitive model to be trained based on a
portion of the data corpus, and receive the new question and generate, based on the trained
cognitive model, the new answer.

    1/9
0
C:
cU)
E                  _:
0
                   0) Cc
                   0
        0
              C:
          o-:
          a)   cn
    it,                  L
    00Un      0c
        U)n
               .U<

                                            1
  PROCESSING DATA FOR USE IN A COGNITIVE INSIGHTS PLATFORM
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 19 January 2017, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     A cognitive model may be a computer model that is designed to simulate human
problem solving and/or mental task processes. A cognitive model may be used to simulate
or predict human behavior or performance on tasks similar to those modeled.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device for providing a new answer
to a new question associated with an issue using a cognitive model, the device including one
or more processors that receive issue resolution information associated with the cognitive
model, the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution information that
describes an issue and a resolution corresponding to the issue, analyze domain hierarchy
information, associated with a plurality of domain hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution
information, automatically determine, based on analyzing the domain hierarchy information
and the item of issue resolution information, that the item of issue resolution is to be assigned
to a particular domain hierarchy, the particular domain hierarchy being one of the plurality of
domain hierarchies, automatically assign the item of issue resolution information to the
particular domain hierarchy based on automatically determining that the item of issue
resolution is to be assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the assigned item of issue
resolution information being provided to a first user via a first user device for reviewing and/or
modifying the particular domain hierarchy, analyze, using a paraphrasing technique, the item
of issue resolution information, provide, based on assigning the item of issue resolution
information to the particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user device
associated with a second user that the item of issue resolution information has been
assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user,
automatically generate a set of questions and an answer corresponding to the item of issue
resolution information, the generating of the set of questions with the answer based on
analyzing the item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing technique, approve
the set of questions and the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information,
the approving of the set of questions and the answer based on input provided by a third user
via a third user device, the third user different from the first user and the second user,
generate, based on approving the set of questions and the answer, a set of question/answer
(QA) pairs for the set of questions and the answer, each QA pair, of the set of QA pairs,
being associated with a question, of the set of questions, and the answer, create a data
corpus including the set of QA pairs, provide the data corpus to cause the cognitive model

                                                3
to be trained based on a portion of the data corpus, and receive the new question and
generate, based on the trained cognitive model, the new answer.
[0004]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method for providing a new answer to a new question associated with an issue using a
cognitive model, the method including receiving, by one or more processors, issue resolution
information associated with the cognitive model, the issue resolution information including
an item of issue resolution information that describes an issue and a resolution to the issue,
analyzing, by the one or more processors, domain hierarchy information, associated with a
plurality of domain hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information, automatically
determining, by the one or more processors and based on analyzing the domain hierarchy
information and the time of issue resolution information, that the item of issue resolution is
to be assigned to a particular domain hierarchy, the particular domain hierarchy being one
of the plurality of domain hierarchies, automatically assigning, by the one or more
processors, the item of issue resolution information to the particular domain hierarchy based
on automatically determining that the item of issue resolution is to be assigned to the
particular domain hierarchy, the assigned item of issue resolution information being provided
to a first user via a first user device for reviewing and/or modifying the particular domain
hierarchy, analyzing, using a paraphrasing technique, the item of issue resolution
information, providing, by the one or more processors and based on assigning the item of
issue resolution information to the particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user
device associated with a second user that the item of issue resolution information has been
assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user,
automatically determining, by the one or more processors, one or more questions
corresponding to the item of issue resolution information and an answer associated with the
one or more questions, the determining of the one or more questions with the answer based
on analyzing the item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing technique,
approving, by the one or more processors, the one or more questions and the answer, the
approving of the one or more questions and the answer based on input provided by a third
user via a third user device, the third user different from the first user and the second user,
generating, by the one or more processors and based on approving the one or more

                                                4
questions and the answer, one or more question/answer (QA) pairs, each QA pair, of the
one or more QA pairs, being associated with a question, of the one or more questions, and
the answer, creating, by the one or more processors, a data corpus including the one or
more QA pairs, causing, by the one or more processors, the cognitive model to be trained
based on a portion of the data corpus, and receiving, by the one or more processors, the
new question and generating, by the one or more processors, and based on the trained
cognitive model, the new answer.
[0005]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions for providing a new answer to a new question
associated with an issue using a cognitive model, the instructions including one or more
instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more
processors to receive issue resolution information associated with the cognitive model, the
issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution information that describes
an issue and a resolution corresponding to the issue, analyze domain hierarchy information,
associated with a plurality of domain hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information,
automatically determine, based on analyzing the domain hierarchy information and the item
of issue resolution information, that the item of issue resolution is to be assigned to a
particular domain hierarchy, the particular domain hierarchy being one of the plurality of
domain hierarchies, automatically assign the item of issue resolution information to the
particular domain hierarchy based on automatically determining, that the item of issue
resolution is to be assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the assigned item of issue
resolution information being provided to a first user via a first user device for reviewing and/or
modifying the particular domain hierarchy, analyze, using a paraphrasing technique, the item
of issue resolution information, provide, based on assigning the item of issue resolution
information to the particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user device
associated with a second user that the item of issue resolution information has been
assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user,
automatically generate, based on assigning the item of issue resolution information to the
particular domain hierarchy, a question and an answer corresponding to the item of issue
resolution information, the generating of the question with the answer based on analyzing

                                               5
the item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing technique, approve, based
on generating the question and the answer, the question and the answer corresponding to
the item of issue resolution information, the approving of the question and the answer based
on input provided by a third user via a third user device, the third user different from the first
user and the second user generate, based on approving the question and the answer, a
question/answer (QA) pair corresponding to the question and the answer, create a data
corpus including the QA pair, provide the data corpus, after creating the data corpus, to
cause the cognitive model to be trained based on a portion of the data corpus, and receive
the new question and generate, based on the trained cognitive model, the new answer.

                                               6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]     Figs. 1A-1 F are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation described
herein;
[0007]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0008]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2; and
[0009]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for processing data for use in training
a cognitive model.

                                                 7
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0010]     The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0011]     A cognitive model may include a computer model that is designed to mimic a
human brain. For example, the cognitive model may be designed to receive data, analyze
the data (e.g., to understand the data), provide an output (e.g., provide an answer to a
question, perform an action, cause an action to be performed, recommend an action, etc.)
based on inferences made as a result of analyzing the data, and learn based on feedback
associated with the output (i.e., to improve future inferences and/or outputs based on the
feedback). The cognitive model may include a natural language processing (NLP) model, a
machine learning (ML) model, or the like, designed to receive data, analyze the data, and
provide the output.
[0012]     As a particular example, the cognitive model may be designed to receive (e.g.,
based on user input) a question, associated with an issue (e.g., a problem, an error, an
incident, etc.), and provide (e.g., for display to the user) an answer to the question. Here,
the cognitive model should be trained using a data corpus that includes processed issue
resolution information including descriptions of issues, resolution information associated with
the issues, one or more questions associated with each of the issues (e.g., questions that
may result in an answer that includes resolution information associated with an issue), one
or more answers associated with each of the issues, or the like.
[0013]     In such a case, the data corpus may be provided via a cognitive insight platform
that supports the cognitive model. However, prior to the data corpus being used by the
cognitive model for training, the cognitive insight platform may need to process the issue
resolution information.     Processing the issue resolution information may include, for
example, receiving the issue resolution information, preparing the issue resolution
information for use in creating the data corpus, creating the data corpus based on the
prepared issue resolution information, and providing the data corpus for training of the
cognitive model using the data corpus. Such processing of the issue resolution information

                                                8
may improve the training of the cognitive model by increasing a likelihood that an answer,
provided by the cognitive model in response to a question, is responsive to the question,
correctly answers the question, accurately answers the question, is useful in resolving an
issue associated with the question, or the like.
[0014]      Implementations described herein may provide a cognitive insight platform
capable of processing issue resolution information that is to be used for training a cognitive
model associated with the cognitive insight platform. In some implementations, the cognitive
insight platform may implement a role-based workflow when processing the issue resolution
information, as described in further detail below.
[0015]      Figs. 1A-1F is a diagram of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As described below in connection with example implementation 100, in
some implementations, a cognitive insight platform may process issue resolution information
for training a cognitive model by: (1) receiving the issue resolution information, (2) preparing
the issue resolution information, (3) creating a data corpus based on the prepared issue
resolution information, and (4) providing the data corpus for training the cognitive model.
Details of each of these steps are described below in association with Figs. 1A-1 F.
[0016]      As shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference number 105, the cognitive insight platform
may receive issue resolution information.       For example, as shown, the cognitive insight
platform may receive the issue resolution from one or more server devices (e.g., server
device 1 through server device A) that store or have access to the issue resolution
information.    As another example, the cognitive insight platform may receive the issue
resolution information based on user input provided via a user device (not shown).
[0017]      The issue resolution information may include descriptions of issues and/or
resolution information, associated with the issues (i.e., a manner in which the issues may be
resolved), based on which the cognitive model is to be trained to provide an output. For
example, the issue resolution information may include a word, a group of words, a sentence,
or the like, that describes an issue. As another example, the issue resolution information
may also include a word, a group of words, a sentence, or the like, that describes a manner
in which the issue may be resolved.          In some implementations, the issue resolution

                                               9
information may include another type of information that describes the issue and/or the
resolution. As shown by reference number 110, the cognitive insight platform may receive
and/or determine domain hierarchy information associated with the issue resolution
information (e.g., domain hierarchy information for domain hierarchy 1 through domain
hierarchy X).    For example, the issue resolution information may include information
associated with a domain hierarchy for issues identified in the issue resolution information,
and the cognitive insight platform may determine the domain hierarchy information based on
receiving the issue resolution information. Additionally, or alternatively, the cognitive insight
platform may receive the domain hierarchy information from another device (e.g., another
server device, a user device, or the like).
[0018]     The domain hierarchy information may include information that identifies one or
more hierarchies associated with one or more domains to which the issue resolution
information may be related. A domain may include a category and/or field of knowledge to
which an issue corresponds.         In some implementations, an item of issue resolution
information may be assigned to a particular domain hierarchy, and questions and answers,
associated with the issue, may be generated (on a per domain hierarchy basis), as described
below.
[0019]     In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may receive another type
of information associated with interpreting and/or preparing the issue resolution information,
such as acronym information associated with one or more acronyms that may be included
in the issue resolution information, synonym information associated with one or more words
included in the issue resolution information, or the like.
[0020]     As shown in Fig. 1B, the cognitive insight platform may assign domain hierarchies
to items of issue resolution information. For example, as shown by reference number 115,
the cognitive insight platform may automatically assign (e.g., without user intervention, based
on analyzing the issue resolution information) a domain hierarchy to items of issue resolution
information. In some implementations, a user assigned to a first role (e.g., an administrator
as shown in Fig. 1B) may review and/or modify a domain hierarchy assigned to an item of
issue resolution. In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may prevent one

                                               10
or more users assigned to other roles (e.g., at lower-levels than the administrator) from
providing issue resolution to the cognitive insight platform, and reviewing and/or modifying
the domain hierarchy assigned to the items of issue resolution information. In this way, the
cognitive insight platform may prevent incorrect and/or inaccurate domain hierarchy
assignment editing and/or modification by unauthorized users, thereby increasing accuracy
of domain hierarchy assignments and, thus, improving training of the cognitive model.
[0021]     As another example, as shown by reference number 120, the cognitive insight
platform may assign a domain hierarchy to an item of issue resolution information based on
user input (e.g., based on administrator input).     In some implementations, the cognitive
insight platform may prevent (i.e., not allow) one or more users assigned to other roles to
assign the domain hierarchy to the item of issue resolution information (i.e., the administrator
may control manual assignment of domain hierarchies to items of issue resolution
information), thereby increasing accuracy of domain hierarchy assignments and, thus,
improving training of the cognitive model.
[0022]     In some implementations, assignment of an item of issue resolution information to
a particular domain hierarchy provides for improved training of the cognitive model since
issues, and the associated resolutions, identified in the issue resolution information, may be
classified, grouped, and/or categorized in a consistent manner based on the domain
hierarchy, which allows questions and answers to be generated by a user with expertise
associated with the particular domain hierarchy, as described below.
[0023]     As shown in Fig. 1C, the cognitive insight platform may further prepare the issue
resolution information by modifying (e.g., adding information to) the issue resolution
information. For example, as shown by reference number 125, the cognitive insight platform
may modify the issue resolution information by generating and adding one or more questions
(e.g., a question, associated with the issue, that may be expected as input from a user when
using the cognitive model) and a corresponding answer (e.g., an answer to the one or more
questions and associated with the resolution information) to the item of issue resolution
information.

                                               11
[0024]     In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may generate the one or
more questions and/or the answer automatically. For example, the cognitive insight platform
may store or have access to a paraphrasing component configured to analyze the issue
description and/or the resolution information (e.g., using a NLP model), and generate the
one or more questions and/or the answer based on analyzing the issue description and/or
the resolution information.    In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may
automatically generate questions and/or answers for issue resolution information associated
with multiple domain hierarchies (e.g., for issues across domain hierarchy 1 through domain
hierarchy X).    In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may allow a user
assigned to a second role (e.g., a subject matter expert (SME) associated with the domain
hierarchy to which the item of issue resolution was assign) to modify and/or remove the
automatically generated one or more questions and/or answers.
[0025]     As another example, and as shown by reference numbers 130 and 135, the
cognitive insight platform may prepare the issue resolution information by modifying the issue
resolution information to include one or more questions and/or an answer received based on
user input. For example, for a particular domain hierarchy (e.g., domain hierarchy 1, domain
hierarchy X), a user assigned to the second role (e.g., SME1, SMEX, respectively) may
provide, as input via a user device, one or more questions and/or an answer associated with
an item of issue resolution information to which the particular domain hierarchy was
assigned.    In this way, questions and/or answers may be efficiently generated on a per
domain hierarchy basis.
[0026]     As shown in Fig. 1D, and by reference numbers 140 and 145, the cognitive insight
platform may approve the prepared (i.e., modified) items of issue resolution information. For
example, the cognitive insight platform may provide prepared items of issue resolution
information, associated with a domain hierarchy, for display to a user assigned to a third role
for the domain hierarchy.
[0027]     As a particular example, as shown by reference number 140, the cognitive insight
platform may provide prepared items of issue resolution information, associated with domain
hierarchy 1 (e.g., provided by SME1, modified by SME1, and/or generated by the cognitive

                                                12
insight platform), to a supervisor of SME1.       Here, the supervisor of SME1 may approve,
further modify, or reject the prepared issue resolution information, associated with domain
hierarchy 1, accordingly. As another example, as shown by reference number 145, the
cognitive insight platform may provide prepared items of issue resolution information,
associated with domain hierarchy X (e.g., provided by SMEX, modified by SMEX, and/or
generated by the cognitive insight platform), to a supervisor of SMEX. Here, the supervisor
of SMEX may approve, further modify, or reject the prepared issue resolution information,
associated with domain hierarchy X, accordingly.
[0028]     In this way, the cognitive insight platform may receive and prepare vast quantities
issue resolution information (e.g., thousands of items of information, millions of items of
information, billions of items of information), associated with multiple issues, using a role
based workflow. In some implementations, preparation of the issue resolution information
in this manner improves training of the cognitive model by decreasing a likelihood that
incorrect and/or inaccurate questions and/or answers are included in a data corpus that is
used to train the cognitive model, as described below.
[0029]     As shown in Fig. 1E, and by reference number 150, the cognitive insight platform
may generate question/answer (QA) pairs based on the prepared issue resolution
information.    For example, as described above, an item of prepared issue resolution
information may include a set of questions, associated with an issue, and an answer to the
set of questions.    Here, the cognitive insight platform may generate a set of QA pairs
corresponding to each question included in the prepared item of issue resolution information.
In this example, each QA pair, of the set of QA pairs, may include a same answer and a
different question (e.g., since each question, included in the prepared item of issue resolution
information, should result in the same answer).
[0030]     In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may associate another
type of information with the QA pair, such as an approval status corresponding to the
prepared item of issue resolution information, the domain hierarchy associated with the
prepared item of issue resolution information, or the like. In some implementations, the
cognitive insight platform may create the data corpus such that the data corpus includes QA

                                                 13
pairs, information that identifies the QA pairs, information that identifies the answers, and/or
one or more other types of information associated with the items of prepared issue resolution
information.
[0031]      As shown by reference number 155, the cognitive insight platform may create a
data corpus including the QA pairs (and the associated information).                   In some
implementations, the cognitive insight platform may generate one or more files that include
the data corpus (e.g., files in a format that may be used by the cognitive model), such as one
or more hypertext markup language (HTML) files, extensible markup language (XML) files,
comma separated value (CSV) files, or the like. In some implementations, the cognitive
insight platform may provide (e.g., upload) one or more portions of the data corpus for use
in training the cognitive model, as described below.
[0032]      As shown by reference number 160, the cognitive insight platform may provide the
data corpus in order to allow the cognitive model to be trained using the data corpus (e.g.,
based on the QA pairs included in the data corpus). As shown by reference number 165,
the cognitive model may be trained using the data corpus.
[0033]      As shown in Fig. 1F, and by reference number 170, after training of the cognitive
model (e.g., using a portion of the data included in the data corpus), the cognitive insight
platform may validate the training of the cognitive model (e.g., based on the portion of the
data corpus used to train the cognitive model) and/or test the training of the cognitive model
(e.g., based on a portion of the data corpus that was not used to train the cognitive model).
In some implementations, the cognitive insight platform may determine one or more
validation metrics and/or performance metrics based on validating and/or testing the training
of the cognitive model. In some implementations, if the cognitive insight platform determines
that the cognitive model is not sufficiently trained (e.g., when one or more validation metrics
and/or performance metrics do not satisfy a corresponding threshold), then the cognitive
insight platform may cause the cognitive model to be retrained (e.g., based on the portion of
the data corpus that was used to train the cognitive model and/or based on a portion of the
data corpus that was not used to train the cognitive model).

                                               14
[0034]     In this way, a cognitive insight platform may be capable of implementing a role
based work flow that efficiently and effectively processes issue resolution information to be
used for training a cognitive model associated with the cognitive insight platform. In some
implementations, implementation of the role-based workflow by the cognitive insight platform
may improve training of the cognitive model by, for example, reducing an amount of
computing resources consumed during training of the cognitive model (e.g., since the data
corpus is prepared for optimized training of the cognitive model). Moreover, implementation
of the role-based workflow may reduce a likelihood of error and/or inaccurate data being
used to train the cognitive model, which results in improved model performance.
[0035]     As indicated above, Figs. 1A-1F are provided merely as examples.               Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A-1 F.
[0036]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 205, one or more server devices 210, a cognitive insight
platform 215 hosted within a cloud computing environment 220, and a network 225. Devices
of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0037]     User device 205 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with cognitive insight platform
215, such as information associated with processing issue resolution information.            For
example, user device 205 may include a communication and computing device, such as a
mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a wearable communication device (e.g.,
a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, etc.), or a similar type of device.
[0038]     Server device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, collecting,
obtaining, gathering, storing, processing, and/or providing issue resolution information for
use in training cognitive insight platform 215. For example, server device 210 may include
a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, server device 210 may include a
device that stores or has access to issue resolution information that is to be used by cognitive

                                                15
insight platform 215.    In some implementations, server device 210 may be capable of
providing information to cognitive insight platform 215.
[0039]     Cognitive insight platform 215 includes one or more devices capable of processing
issue resolution information, training a cognitive model, and/or providing an answer to a
question using the trained cognitive model. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may
include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, as shown, cognitive insight
platform 215 may be hosted in cloud computing environment 220.                Notably, while
implementations described herein describe cognitive insight platform 215 as being hosted in
cloud computing environment 220, in some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215
may not be cloud-based (i.e., may be implemented outside of a cloud computing
environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0040]     Cloud computing environment 220 includes an environment that hosts cognitive
insight platform 215. Cloud computing environment 220 may provide computation, software,
data access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device 205)
knowledge of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that hosts
cognitive insight platform 215. As shown, cloud computing environment 220 may include a
group of computing resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 222" and
individually as "computing resource 222").
[0041]     Computing resource 222 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 222 may host cognitive insight platform 215.
The cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 222,
storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 222, etc.        In some implementations, computing resource 222 may
communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0042]     As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 may include a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines

                                                16
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.
[0043]       Application 222-1 may include one or more software applications that may be
provided to or accessed by user device 205 and/or server device 210. Application 222-1
may eliminate a need to install and execute the software applications on these devices. For
example, application 222-1 may include software associated with cognitive insight platform
215 and/or any other software capable of being provided via cloud computing environment
220. In some implementations, one application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from
one or more other applications 222-1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0044]       Virtual machine 222-2 may include a software implementation of a machine (e.g.,
a computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of another device (e.g., user device 205 and/or server device 210), and may manage
infrastructure of cloud computing         environment    220,   such    as data management,
synchronization, or long-duration data transfers.
[0045]       Virtualized storage 222-3 may include one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are

                                                 17
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0046]     Hypervisor 222-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 222. Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0047]     Network 225 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 225 may include a cellular network, a public land mobile network ("PLMN"), a local
area network ("LAN"), a wide area network ("WAN"), a metropolitan area network ("MAN"),
a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network ("PSTN")), an ad hoc
network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber optic-based network, and/or a combination of these
or other types of networks.
[0048]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0049]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 205, server device 210, and/or cognitive insight platform 215. In
some implementations, user device 205, server device 210, and/or cognitive insight platform
215 may include one or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300.
As shown in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a
storage component 340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a
communication interface 370.

                                               18
[0050]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among the
components of device 300.      Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 takes the form of a central processing
unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), an accelerated processing unit (APU), a
microprocessor, a microcontroller, a digital signal processor (DSP), a field-programmable
gate array (FPGA), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or another type of
processing component.      In some implementations, processor 320 includes one or more
processors capable of being programmed to perform a function. Memory 330 includes a
random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or another type of dynamic
or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory, and/or an optical
memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor 320.
[0051]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0052]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).             Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0053]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another

                                                 19
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0054]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0055]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0056]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0057]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for processing data for use in
training a cognitive model. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4
may be performed by cognitive insight platform 215. In some implementations, one or more
process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate

                                               20
from or including cognitive insight platform 215, such as user device 205 and/or server device
210.
[0058]     As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving issue resolution information
associated with a cognitive model (block 410). For example, cognitive insight platform 215
may receive issue resolution information associated with the cognitive model.
[0059]     The issue resolution information may include descriptions of issues and/or
resolution information associated with the issues (i.e., a manner in which the issue may be
resolved) based on which the cognitive model is to be trained to provide an output. For
example, the issue resolution information may include a word, a group of words, a sentence,
or the like, that describes an issue. As another example, the issue resolution information
may also include a word, a group of words, a sentence, or the like, that describes a manner
in which the issue may be resolved. The issue resolution information may include another
type of information that describes the issue and/or the resolution. In some implementations,
the issue resolution information includes information associated with multiple issues. In
some implementations, each issue may be associated with one or more items of resolution
information (e.g., when the issue may be resolved in multiple ways).
[0060]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive the issue
resolution information from one or more data sources.          For example, cognitive insight
platform 215 may send, to one or more server devices 210 that store or have access to the
issue resolution information, a request for the issue resolution information, and may receive,
from the one or more server devices 210, a response that includes the issue resolution
information.    Additionally, or alternatively, the one or more server devices 210 may
automatically (e.g., periodically, based on an update, based on a trigger, etc.) provide the
issue resolution information to cognitive insight platform 215. Automatic provisioning of the
issue resolution information to cognitive insight platform 215 may allow cognitive insight
platform 215 to update and/or maintain up-to-date issue resolution information without user
intervention.

                                                21
[0061]     Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive the issue
resolution information from one or more user devices 205 (e.g., when a user provides issue
resolution information as user input via user device 205).
[0062]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive the issue
resolution information from different sources (e.g., different server devices 210 and/or user
devices 205) and the issue resolution information can be in different formats. In such a case,
cognitive insight platform 215 may normalize the issue resolution information (e.g., to a
common format) for further processing.
[0063]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive domain
hierarchy information associated with the issue resolution information. For example, in some
implementations, the issue resolution information may include information associated with a
domain hierarchy for issues identified in the issue resolution information.        The domain
hierarchy information may include information that identifies one or more hierarchies
associated with one or more domains to which the issue resolution information may be
related. A domain may include a category and/or field of knowledge to which an issue
corresponds. In some implementations, a domain may include one or more sub-domains.
Additionally, or alternatively, a sub-domain may include one or more sub-domains. Here,
the domain hierarchy information may describe a hierarchy associated with one or more
levels of domains and sub-domains. In some implementations, an item of issue resolution
information may be assigned to a particular domain hierarchy during processing the issue
resolution information, as described below. In some implementations, assignment of an item
of issue resolution information to a particular domain hierarchy provides for improved training
of the cognitive model since issues, and the associated resolutions, identified in the issue
resolution information, may be classified, grouped, and/or categorized in a consistent
manner based on the domain hierarchy.
[0064]     Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive acronym
information associated with the issue resolution information.           For example, in some
implementations, the issue resolution information may include acronym information
associated with acronyms included in the issue resolution information.           The acronym

                                                 22
information may include information that defines one or more acronyms that may be included
in the issue resolution information. In some implementations, the acronym information may
be used to ensure that acronyms, included in the issue resolution information, are correctly
interpreted by cognitive insight platform 215 and/or the cognitive model, thereby improving
creation of the data corpus and/or training of the cognitive model.
[0065]      Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive synonym
information associated with the issue resolution information. The synonym information may
include, for example, information that that describes one or more alternative words, phrases,
or the like, ways of specifying a term included in the issue resolution information.
[0066]       In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive the issue
resolution information based on input associated with a user assigned to a first role, such as
an administrator associated with cognitive insight platform 215.          Here, cognitive insight
platform 215 may allow the user assigned to the first role to cause cognitive insight platform
215 to receive the issue resolution information, while cognitive insight platform 215 may not
allow one or more users assigned to other roles (e.g., at lower-levels than the administrator)
to cause cognitive insight platform 215 to receive issue resolution information (i.e., the
administrator may control receipt of issue resolution information by cognitive insight platform
215).    In this way, integrity of the issue resolution information may be ensured (e.g., by
ensuring that only authorized users cause cognitive insight platform 215 to receive issue
resolution information associated with the cognitive model).
[0067]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include preparing the issue resolution
information based on receiving the issue resolution information (block 420). For example,
cognitive insight platform 215 may prepare the issue resolution information based on
receiving the issue resolution information.      In some implementations, preparing the issue
resolution information may include assigning a domain hierarchy to items of issue resolution
information, modifying the issue resolution information, and/or approving the issue resolution
information, as described below.
[0068]       In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may assign a domain
hierarchy to items of issue resolution information. For example, cognitive insight platform

                                                 23
215 may assign a domain hierarchy, included in the domain hierarchy information, to each
item of issue resolution information included in the issue resolution information.        In other
words, cognitive insight platform 215 may effectively categorize each item of issue resolution
to match the categorized issue of issue resolution to a category or topic associated with a
domain hierarchy.
[0069]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may automatically (e.g.,
without user intervention) assign the domain hierarchy to an item of issue resolution
information. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may analyze the domain hierarchy
information and the item of issue resolution information (e.g., the issue description, the
resolution information associated with the issue, etc.) and may determine, based on the
analysis, a suggested and/or recommended domain hierarchy, included in the domain
hierarchy information, to be assigned to the item of issue resolution information. Here, the
user assigned to the first role (e.g., the administrator associated with cognitive insight
platform 215) may review and/or modify the assigned domain hierarchy.                   In some
implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may not allow one or more users assigned
to other roles (e.g., at lower-levels than the administrator) to review and/or modify the domain
hierarchy assigned to the item of issue resolution information. In this way, cognitive insight
platform 215 may ensure integrity of assigned domain hierarchy assignments (e.g., by
preventing incorrect and/or inaccurate domain hierarchy assignment editing and/or
modification by unauthorized users), thereby increasing accuracy of domain hierarchy
assignments and, thus, improving training of the cognitive model.
[0070]     Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may assign the domain
hierarchy based on user input. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide, for
display to the user assigned to the first role (e.g., the administrator), the item of issue
resolution information, and the administrator may select (e.g., via a drop down menu, a text
box, a radio button) the domain hierarchy to be assigned to the item of issue resolution
information. In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may prevent (i.e., not
allow) one or more users assigned to other roles to assign the domain hierarchy to the item
of issue resolution information (i.e., the administrator may control manual assignment of

                                               24
domain hierarchies to items of issue resolution information), thereby increasing accuracy of
domain hierarchy assignments and, thus, improving training of the cognitive model.
[0071]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may store information
indicating that the domain hierarchy is assigned to the item of issue resolution information.
In some implementations, after the domain hierarchy is assigned to the item of issue
resolution information, cognitive insight platform 215 may allow modification of the item of
issue resolution information, as described below.
[0072]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may modify the item of
issue resolution information based on assigning the domain hierarchy. For example, after
assignment of the domain hierarchy, cognitive insight platform 215 may allow one or more
users assigned to a second role (e.g., a subject matter expert (SME) associated with the
domain hierarchy and/or one or more domains or sub-domains included in the domain
hierarchy) to modify the issue resolution information.
[0073]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may modify the issue
resolution information based on user input. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may
provide the issue resolution information for display to the user assigned to the second role
(e.g., the SME), associated with the domain hierarchy, and may receive information
associated with modifying the item of issue resolution information based on input provided
by the user assigned to the second role. As a particular example, based on input from the
user assigned to the second role, cognitive insight platform 215 may modify the issue
description and/or the resolution information associated with the issue. As another example,
cognitive insight platform 215 may, based on input from the user assigned to the second
role, add additional information to the item of issue resolution information, such as a subject
associated with the issue, one or more questions related to the issue (e.g., questions,
associated with the issue, that the SME may expect a user to provide to the cognitive model),
an answer related to the issue (e.g., an answer to the one or more questions and associated
with the resolution information), or the like.
[0074]     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may automatically
provide, to user device 205 associated with the user assigned to the second role, a

                                                25
notification associated with the issue resolution information to be reviewed and/or modified
by the user assigned to the second role. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may
provide, to user device 205 associated with the SME, a notification that cognitive insight
platform 215 has assigned one or more items of issue resolution information to a domain
hierarchy associated with the SME.          In this way, cognitive insight platform 215 may
automatically prompt preparation of the issue resolution information, even when user input
is needed, thereby improving a speed at which the cognitive model is trained and/or updated.
[0075]      Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may automatically
modify the item of issue resolution information. For example, cognitive insight platform 215
may store or have access to a paraphrasing component configured to analyze the issue
description and/or the resolution information (e.g., using a NLP model).            Here the
paraphrasing component, based on analyzing the issue description and/or the resolution
information, may generate one or more questions to be added to the item of issue resolution
information. The paraphrasing component may generate the one or more questions, and
cognitive insight platform 215 may allow the user assigned to the second role to modify
and/or remove the         automatically   generated one     or more    questions.   In some
implementations, the paraphrasing component may generate one or more answers to the
one or more questions in a similar manner.
[0076]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may allow the user
assigned to the second role to reject the domain hierarchy assignment, the one or more
questions, and/or the one or more answers associated with the item of issue resolution
information. For example, the SME may determine that the domain hierarchy assigned to
the item of issue resolution information is incorrect, that the item of issue resolution
information includes only information (e.g., rather than an issue and a resolution). Here,
cognitive insight platform 215 may allow the SME to reject the domain hierarchy assignment,
accordingly.    In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may allow a user
assigned to a third role (e.g., a supervisor of the SME) and/or the user assigned to the first
role (e.g., the administrator) to review the rejection of the domain hierarchy and act
accordingly (e.g., approve the rejection and assign a new domain hierarchy, deny the
rejection, etc.).  In this way, cognitive insight platform 215 may facilitate assignment of

                                               26
domain hierarchies across multiple users, while maintaining integrity of such assignments,
thereby increasing accuracy of domain hierarchy assignments and, thus, improving training
of the cognitive model.
[0077]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may determine and
provide a confidence score that indicates a degree of confidence that cognitive insight
platform 215 has with regard to an automatically performed (e.g., an assigned domain
hierarchy, a generated question and/or answer, or the like). For example, a low confidence
score (e.g., a score that does not satisfy a threshold) may indicate that the user should
consider rejecting and/or modifying an output of the automatically performed task, while a
high confidence score (e.g., a score that satisfies the threshold) may indicate that the user
should consider approving the output of the automatically performed task. For those with
low confidence scores, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide alternative outputs (e.g.,
an alternate category, additional questions, and additional answer, or the like) and may
include a confidence score associated with the alternative output.
[0078]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may store the prepared
(i.e., modified) issue resolution information. In some implementations, after cognitive insight
platform 215 stores the prepared issue resolution information, cognitive insight platform 215
may approve the prepared item of issue resolution information, as described below.
[0079]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may approve the
prepared item of issue resolution information. For example, cognitive insight platform 215
may provide the prepared issue resolution information for display to the user assigned to the
third role (e.g., the supervisor of the SME). Here, the user assigned to the third role may
review the prepared item of issue resolution information, and may approve and/or further
modify the prepared item of issue resolution information. In some implementations, the user
assigned to the third role may supervise multiple users assigned to the second role
associated with the domain hierarchy. In some implementations, after the prepared item of
issue resolution information is approved by the user assigned to the third role, the prepared
item of issue resolution information may be included in the data corpus, as described below.

                                                 27
[0080]      In this way, large numbers of items of issue resolution information (e.g., thousands
of items of information, millions of items of information, billions of items of information, trillions
of items of information), included in the issue resolution information, may be prepared such
that the items of issue resolution information include questions and answers that may be
included in the data corpus. Here, cognitive insight platform 215 may facilitate receipt and
preparation of the issue resolution information by implementing different roles (e.g., the
administrator, the SME, and the supervisor of the SME). This may allow cognitive insight
platform 215 to efficiently receive and accurately prepare the issue resolution information for
use in the data corpus.        Further, the role-based workflow may reduce consumption of
processing resources and/or time associated with preparing the issue resolution information.
[0081]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include creating, based on preparing
the issue resolution information, a data corpus for training the cognitive model (block 430).
For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may create, based on preparing the issue
resolution information, a data corpus for training the cognitive model.
[0082]      The data corpus may, in some implementations, include a set of question/answer
(QA) pairs generated based on the prepared issue resolution information. For example, in
some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may create the data corpus by
generating QA pairs associated with the items of prepared issue resolution information. For
example, as described above, an item of prepared issue resolution information may include
a set of questions, associated with an issue, and an answer to the set of questions. Here,
cognitive insight platform 215 may generate a set of QA pairs corresponding to each question
included in the prepared item of issue resolution information. In this example, each QA pair,
of the set of QA pairs, may include a same answer and a different question (e.g., since each
question, included in the prepared item of issue resolution information, should result in the
same answer).
[0083]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 my associate a pair
identifier and an answer identifier with the QA pair. For example, cognitive insight platform
215 may assign a unique identifier (e.g., a number, a string of characters, etc.) to each QA
pair (e.g., such that each QA pair is identified by a unique pair identifier). Continuing with

                                                28
this example, cognitive insight platform 215 may also assign an answer identifier (e.g., a
number, a string of characters, etc.) to each QA pair. The answer identifier may include an
identifier corresponding to the answer included in the QA pair. For example, cognitive insight
platform 215 may assign a same answer identifier (e.g., a number, a string of characters,
etc.) to each QA pair associated with a particular item of prepared issue resolution
information (e.g., since each question is associated with the same answer). In other words,
a same answer identifier may be assigned to multiple QA pairs. Additionally, or alternatively,
cognitive insight platform 215 may associate another type of information with the QA pair,
such as an approval status corresponding to the prepared item of issue resolution
information, the domain hierarchy associated with the prepared item of issue resolution
information, or the like. In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may create
the data corpus such that the data corpus includes QA pairs, pair identifiers, answer
identifiers, and/or one or more other types of information associated with the items of
prepared issue resolution information. In some implementations, the pair identifier may be
used to facilitate simple identification of a QA pair and/or a corresponding answer in.
[0084]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may generate one or
more files that include the data corpus (e.g., files in a format that may be used by the
cognitive model). For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may generate a hypertext
markup language (HTML) file, an extensible markup language (XML) file, a comma
separated value (CSV) file, or the like, to include in the data corpus.                In some
implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide (e.g., upload) one or more
portions of the data corpus for use in training the cognitive model, as described below.
[0085]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing the data corpus for
training of the cognitive model (block 440). For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may
provide the data corpus for training of the cognitive model.
[0086]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide the data
corpus in order to cause the cognitive model to be trained using the data corpus. For
example, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide a portion of the data corpus to be used
to train the cognitive model (herein referred to as training data), and the cognitive model may

                                                 29
apply one or more machine learning techniques to analyze the training data and train and/or
update the cognitive model based on the analysis. In some implementations, the cognitive
model may be stored and/or maintained by one or more devices of cognitive insight platform
215 and/or one or more other devices included in (or external to) cloud computing
environment 220.
[0087]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may verify the training of
the cognitive model. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide questions,
included in the training data, as input to the cognitive model. Here, cognitive insight platform
215 may receive, as an output from the cognitive model, answers corresponding to the
questions.     In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may determine and
provide information associated with one or more validation metrics, such as accuracy (e.g.,
a number of correct answers output), precision (e.g., a number of relevant answers output
by the cognitive model), recall (e.g., a number of answers output), or the like, based on the
output of the cognitive model. In some implementations, such information may be provided
for display to a user via user device 205. Similarly, the cognitive model may provide, to
cognitive insight platform 215, information associated with a confidence level (e.g., a
percentage from 0% to 100%, a value from 0.0 to 1.0, etc.), associated with each answer, at
which the cognitive model expects that the answer is responsive to the question, correct,
useful, or the like.
[0088]      Here, cognitive insight platform 215 may verify the training of the cognitive model
when the one or more validation metrics satisfy a validation threshold and/or when the
confidence levels satisfy a confidence threshold (e.g., 99%, 0.95, etc.). In a case where the
validation metrics do not satisfy the corresponding thresholds, cognitive insight platform 215
may retrain the cognitive model using the training data (e.g., in order to improve the validation
metrics for the training data), additional training data, and/or user input. Similarly, in a case
where the confidence level does not satisfy the training threshold, or when the cognitive
model is over-confident (e.g., has high confidence in an incorrect answer) or under-confident
(e.g., has low confidence in a correct answer), cognitive insight platform 215 may train the
cognitive model using additional training data and/or user input (e.g., in order to improve the
confidence level for the training data).

                                                  30
[0089]      Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may test the training of
the cognitive model. For example, cognitive insight platform 215 may upload a portion of the
data corpus that was not used to train the cognitive model (herein referred to as testing data).
Here, cognitive insight platform 215 may provide questions, included in the testing data, as
input to the cognitive model, and may receive, as output, answers corresponding to the
questions. The cognitive model may also determine and provide, to cognitive insight platform
215, information associated with a confidence level, associated with each answer, at which
the cognitive model expects that the answer is responsive to the question, correct, useful, or
the like. Here, cognitive insight platform 215 may compare the confidence level to a testing
threshold (e.g., 70%, 0.8, etc.). In a case where the confidence level does not satisfy the
testing threshold, or when the cognitive model is over-confident or under-confident, cognitive
insight platform 215 may train the cognitive model using additional training data and/or user
input (e.g., in order to improve the confidence level for the testing data).
[0090]      Additionally, or alternatively, cognitive insight platform 215 may compare the
answers received during testing to one or more known answers (e.g., included in the testing
data), and may determine one or more performance metrics, such as accuracy, precision, or
the like, based on the output of the cognitive model.             In some implementations, such
information may be provided for display to a user via user device 205. In a case where one
or more of the performance metrics does not satisfy a performance threshold (e.g., an
accuracy threshold, a precision threshold, or the like), cognitive insight platform 215 may
train the cognitive model using additional training data and/or user input (e.g., in order to
improve the performance of the cognitive model).
[0091]      In some implementations, after training, verifying, and/or testing the cognitive
model, cognitive insight platform 215 may be capable of receiving (e.g., based on user input)
a question, providing the question as an input to the cognitive model, determining one or
more answers to the question (e.g., including one or more corresponding confidence levels),
and providing the one or more answers to the question for display to the user.
[0092]      In some implementations, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive feedback
associated with an answer provided by cognitive insight platform 215. For example, the user

                                               31
may indicate (e.g., by selecting a "Yes" button or a "No" button on a user interface associated
with the cognitive model), whether the answer provided is responsive and/or useful in
response to the question. Here, cognitive insight platform 215 may receive the feedback,
store the feedback, and update the cognitive model (e.g., using a machine learning
technique). In this way, cognitive insight platform 215 may improve responsiveness and/or
usefulness of answers provided by cognitive insight platform 215 over time.
[0093]      Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0094]      Implementations described herein may provide a cognitive insight platform that
implements a role-based workflow for processing issue resolution information that is to be
used for training a cognitive model associated with cognitive insight platform 215. The role
based workflow may facilitate efficient receipt of issue resolution information, accurate
preparation of the issue resolution information for use in a data corpus, and preparation of
the data corpus for use in training the cognitive model.       Processing of issue resolution
information in this manner may lead to reduced consumption of processing resources,
memory resources, and/or temporal resources (e.g., man hours) and efficient and/or
effective training of the cognitive model.
[0095]      The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[0096]      As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[0097]      Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,

                                               32
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[0098]     Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[0099]     It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00100]    Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.       Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.

                                                33
[00101]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00102]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00103]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                34
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device for providing a new answer to a new question associated with an issue using
a cognitive model, the device including:
       one or more processors that:
               receive issue resolution information associated with the cognitive model,
                       the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
               information that describes an issue and a resolution corresponding to the
               issue;
               analyze domain hierarchy information, associated with a plurality of domain
       hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information;
               automatically determine, based on analyzing the domain hierarchy information
       and the item of issue resolution information, that the item of issue resolution is to be
       assigned to a particular domain hierarchy, the particular domain hierarchy being one
       of the plurality of domain hierarchies;
               automatically assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular
       domain hierarchy based on automatically determining that the item of issue resolution
       is to be assigned to the particular domain hierarchy,
                       the assigned item of issue resolution information being provided to a
               first user via a first user device for reviewing and/or modifying the particular
               domain hierarchy;
               analyze, using a paraphrasing technique, the item of issue resolution
       information;
               provide, based on assigning the item of issue resolution information to the
       particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user device associated with a
       second user that the item of issue resolution information has been assigned to the
       particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user;
               automatically generate a set of questions and an answer corresponding to the
       item of issue resolution information,

                                                35
                      the generating of the set of questions with the answer based on
              analyzing the item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing
              technique;
              approve the set of questions and the answer corresponding to the item of issue
       resolution information,
                      the approving of the set of questions and the answer based on input
               provided by a third user via a third user device, the third user different from the
              first user and the second user;
              generate, based on approving the set of questions and the answer, a set of
       question/answer (QA) pairs for the set of questions and the answer,
                      each QA pair, of the set of QA pairs, being associated with a question,
              of the set of questions, and the answer;
              create a data corpus including the set of QA pairs;
               provide the data corpus to cause the cognitive model to be trained based on a
       portion of the data corpus; and
               receive the new question and generate, based on the trained cognitive model,
       the new answer.
2.     A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors further:
               receive user input associated with approving the set of questions and the
       answer,
                      the user input being provided by the third user; and
              where the one or more processors, when approving the set of questions and
       the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information:
                      approve the set of questions and the answer based on the user input.
3.     A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors,
after causing the cognitive model to be trained based on providing the data corpus, further:
              determine a validation metric based on an output of the cognitive model;
              determine whether the validation metric satisfies a threshold corresponding to
       the validation metric; and

                                                 36
               selectively:
                       validate the training of the cognitive model when the validation metric
               satisfies the threshold, or
                       cause the cognitive model to be retrained when the validation metric
               does not satisfy the threshold.
4.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
                receive domain hierarchy information that includes information associated with
       a plurality of domain hierarchies; and
               where the one or more processors, when assigning the item of issue resolution
       information to the particular domain hierarchy:
                       assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular domain
                hierarchy based on the domain hierarchy information,
                              the particular domain hierarchy being one of the plurality of
                       domain hierarchies.
5.     A computer-implemented method for providing a new answer to a new question
associated with an issue using a cognitive model, the method including:
       receiving, by one or more processors, issue resolution information associated with
the cognitive model,
               the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
       information that describes an issue and a resolution to the issue;
       analyzing, by the one or more processors, domain hierarchy information, associated
with a plurality of domain hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information;
       automatically determining, by the one or more processors and based on analyzing
the domain hierarchy information and the time of issue resolution information, that the item
of issue resolution is to be assigned to a particular domain hierarchy, the particular domain
hierarchy being one of the plurality of domain hierarchies;

                                               37
       automatically assigning, by the one or more processors, the item of issue resolution
information to the particular domain hierarchy based on automatically determining that the
item of issue resolution is to be assigned to the particular domain hierarchy,
                the assigned item of issue resolution information being provided to a first user
       via a first user device for reviewing and/or modifying the particular domain hierarchy;
       analyzing, using a paraphrasing technique, the item of issue resolution information;
        providing, by the one or more processors and based on assigning the item of issue
resolution information to the particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user
device associated with a second user that the item of issue resolution information has been
assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user;
       automatically determining, by the one or more processors, one or more questions
corresponding to the item of issue resolution information and an answer associated with the
one or more questions,
                the determining of the one or more questions with the answer based on
       analyzing the item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing technique;
       approving, by the one or more processors, the one or more questions and the answer,
                the approving of the one or more questions and the answer based on input
        provided by a third user via a third user device, the third user different from the first
        user and the second user;
       generating, by the one or more processors and based on approving the one or more
questions and the answer, one or more question/answer (QA) pairs,
                each QA pair, of the one or more QA pairs, being associated with a question,
       of the one or more questions, and the answer;
       creating, by the one or more processors, a data corpus including the one or more QA
pairs;
       causing, by the one or more processors, the cognitive model to be trained based on
a portion of the data corpus; and
        receiving, by the one or more processors, the new question and generating, by the
one or more processors, and based on the trained cognitive model, the new answer.
6.     A method according to claim 5, further including:

                                               38
               receiving user input associated with the one or more questions and the answer,
                      the user input being provided by the second user; and
               where determining the one or more questions and the answer further includes:
                      determining the one or more questions and the answer based on the
               user input provided by the second user.
7.     A method according to either claim 5 or claim 6, further including:
               receiving user input associated with approving the one or more questions and
       the answer,
                      the user input being provided by the third user; and
               where approving the one or more questions and the answer includes:
                      approving the one or more questions and the answer based on the user
               input provided by the third user.
8.     A method according to any one of claims 5 to 7, where, after causing the cognitive
model to be trained based on the portion of the data corpus, the method further includes:
               determining a performance metric based on an output of the cognitive model
       associated with another portion of the data corpus; and
               determining that the performance metric does not satisfy a threshold
       corresponding to the performance metric; and
               causing the cognitive model to be retrained based on determining that the
       performance metric does not satisfy the threshold corresponding to the performance
       metric.
9.     A method according to claim 8, where causing the cognitive model to be retrained
includes:
               causing the cognitive model to be retrained based on at least the other portion
       of the data corpus.

                                              39
10.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for providing a new
answer to a new question associated with an issue using a cognitive model, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
              receive issue resolution information associated with the cognitive model,
                      the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
              information that describes an issue and a resolution corresponding to the
              issue;
              analyze domain hierarchy information, associated with a plurality of domain
       hierarchies, and the item of issue resolution information;
              automatically determine, based on analyzing the domain hierarchy information
       and the item of issue resolution information, that the item of issue resolution is to be
       assigned to a particular domain hierarchy,
                      the particular domain hierarchy being one of the plurality of domain
              hierarchies;
              automatically assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular
       domain hierarchy based on automatically determining, that the item of issue resolution
       is to be assigned to the particular domain hierarchy, the assigned item of issue
       resolution information being provided to a first user via a first user device for reviewing
       and/or modifying the particular domain hierarchy;
              analyze, using a paraphrasing technique, the item of issue resolution
       information;
              provide, based on assigning the item of issue resolution information to the
       particular domain hierarchy, a notification to a second user device associated with a
       second user that the item of issue resolution information has been assigned to the
       particular domain hierarchy, the second user different from the first user;
              automatically generate, based on assigning the item of issue resolution
       information to the particular domain hierarchy, a question and an answer
       corresponding to the item of issue resolution information,

                                                40
                      the generating of the question with the answer based on analyzing the
              item of issue resolution information using the paraphrasing technique;
              approve, based on generating the question and the answer, the question and
      the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information,
                      the approving of the question and the answer based on input provided
              by a third user via a third user device, the third user different from the first user
              and the second user;
              generate, based on approving the question and the answer, a question/answer
       (QA) pair corresponding to the question and the answer;
              create a data corpus including the QA pair;
              provide the data corpus, after creating the data corpus, to cause the cognitive
       model to be trained based on a portion of the data corpus; and
              receive the new question and generate, based on the trained cognitive model,
      the new answer.
11.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 10, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
              receive user input associated with assigning the item of issue resolution
       information to the particular domain hierarchy; and
              where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
      assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular domain hierarchy,
      further cause the one or more processors to:
                      assign the item of issue resolution information to the particular domain
              hierarchy based on the user input provided by a user associated with the
              particular domain hierarchy.
12.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 10 or claim 11,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
              receive user input associated with the question and the answer,

                                             41
                   the user input being provided by a user associated with the particular
           domain hierarchy; and
           where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
    generate the question and the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution
    information, further cause the one or more processors to:
                   generate the question and the answer based on the user input.
1a. A device, including:
    one or more processors that:
           receive issue resolution information associated with a cognitive model,
                   the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
           information that describes an issue and a resolution corresponding to the
           issue;
           assign the item of issue resolution information to a particular domain hierarchy,
                   the assigning of the item of issue resolution information to the particular
           domain hierarchy being associated with a first user;
           generate a set of questions and an answer corresponding to the item of issue
    resolution information,
                   the generating of the set of questions and the answer being associated
           with a second user that is different from the first user;
           approve the set of questions and the answer corresponding to the item of issue
    resolution information,
                   the approving of the set of questions and the answer being associated
           with a third user that is different from the first user and the second user;
           generate, based on approving the set of questions and the answer, a set of
    question/answer (QA) pairs for the set of questions and the answer,
                   each QA pair, of the set of QA pairs, being associated with a question,
           of the set of questions, and the answer;
           create a data corpus including the set of QA pairs; and
           provide the data corpus to cause the cognitive model to be trained based on a
    portion of the data corpus.

                                                 42
2a.    A method, including:
        receiving, by a device, issue resolution information associated with a cognitive model,
                the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
        information that describes an issue and a resolution to the issue;
       assigning, by the device, the item of issue resolution information to a domain hierarchy
of a plurality of domain hierarchies,
                the assigning of the item of issue resolution information to the domain hierarchy
        being associated with a first user;
       determining, by the device, one or more questions corresponding to the item of issue
resolution information and an answer associated with the one or more questions,
                the determining of the one or more questions and the answer being associated
       with a second user that is different from the first user;
       approving, by the device, the one or more questions and the answer,
                the approving of the one or more questions and the answer being associated
       with a third user that is different from the first user and the second user;
       generating, by the device and based on approving the one or more questions and the
answer, one or more question/answer (QA) pairs,
                each QA pair, of the one or more QA pairs, being associated with a question,
       of the one or more questions, and the answer;
       creating, by the device, a data corpus including the one or more QA pairs; and
       causing, by the device, the cognitive model to be trained based on a portion of the
data corpus.
3a.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
                receive issue resolution information associated with a cognitive model,
                       the issue resolution information including an item of issue resolution
                information that describes an issue and a resolution corresponding to the
                issue;

                                        43
       assign the item of issue resolution information to a particular domain hierarchy;
       generate, based on assigning the item of issue resolution information to the
particular domain hierarchy, a question and an answer corresponding to the item of
issue resolution information;
       approve, based on generating the question and the answer, the question and
the answer corresponding to the item of issue resolution information;
       generate, based on approving the question and the answer, a question/answer
(QA) pair corresponding to the question and the answer;
       create a data corpus including the QA pair; and
       provide the data corpus, after creating the data corpus, to cause the cognitive
model to be trained based on a portion of the data corpus.

                                      <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                      110
                                           Domain Hierarchy (DH) Info
                                               (e.g., DH1-DHX)
 Server
Device 1
                      105
           Issue Resolution Info                                        1/9
              (e.g., Issue Info,
             Resolution(s) Info)
 Server
Device A
                                   Cognitive Insight
                                    Platform (CIP)
              FIG. 1A

                                     <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                                              115
                                                     Assign DHs to Items of
                                                      Issue Resolution Info
                                                         (Automatically)
Admin
                 120                                                          2/9
        Assign DHs to Items of
         Issue Resolution Info
             (User Input)
                                 Cognitive Insight
                                  Platform (CIP)
           FIG. 1B

                                     <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                   125
                                       Modify Issue Resolution Info
                                          (for DH1-DHX Items)
                                       (e.g., Generate Qs and As)
SME1
(DH1)                130
          Modify Issue Resolution
            Info (for DH1 Items)                                      3/9
        (e.g., Generate Qs and As)
SMEX
(DHX)                 135
          Modify Issue Resolution             Cognitive Insight
            Info (for DHX Items)               Platform (CIP)
        (e.g., Generate Qs and As)
             FIG. 1C

                                        <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
SME1
pervisor
                      140
            Approve Prepared Issue
           Resolution Info (for SME1)
                                                                    4/9
SMEX
pervisor
                      145
                                             Cognitive Insight
            Approve Prepared Issue
                                              Platform (CIP)
           Resolution Info (for SMEX)
                 FIG. 1D

                                              <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                                                165
Pairs                                                     Train Cognitive
 ed Issue                                                     Model
  nfo
                                    160
                                  Provide
                                Data Corpus
                                              Cognitive
                                               Model                        5/9
 ata
s
            Cognitive Insight
             Platform (CIP)
                                FIG. 1E

                                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   170
                    Validate, Test, Retrain Cognitive
                      Model (using Data Corpus)       Cognitive
                                                       Model               6/9
Cognitive Insight
 Platform (CIP)
                            FIG. 1F

                                           <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                 Cloud Computing
                                 Environment 220
                                  Cognitive Insight Platform 215
                                 Computing           Computing
                                 Resource            Resource
                                   222                 222
         Network
          225
                                 Computing           Computing
                                 Resource            Resource               7/9
                                   222                 222
Server             Server
Device             Device
210-1              210-A                        APPs           VMs
                                                222-1          222-2
                                                 VSs           HYPs
                                                222-3          222-4
                        FIG. 2

                                             <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                                              Storage
            Processor               Memory
                                                             Component
              320                    330
                                                                340
                                                                              8/9
  Input                   Output             Communication
Component               Component              Interface
   350                     360                   370
                         FIG. 3

                                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                Receive issue resolution information
410
                 associated with a cognitive model
           Prepare the issue resolution information based
420
            on receiving the issue resolution information
                                                                             9/9
           Create, based on preparing the issue resolution
430
      information, a data corpus for training the cognitive model
440   Provide the data corpus for training of the cognitive model
                             FIG. 4

