   ABSTRACT
          A system and method for determining individualized medical
   intervention for a particular disease state, and especially for cancers, that
   includes the molecular profiling of a biological sample from the patient,
 5 determining whether any molecular findings including one or more molecular
   mechanisms, and/or combinations of such exhibit a change in expression
   compared to a reference, and identifying a non-specific disease therapy or
   agent capable of interacting with the genes, gene expressed proteins,
   molecular mechanisms, or combinations of such molecular findings that
10 exhibited a change in expression.
                                1838130_1.D :\NrPortbl\FAKDocs\SBEBBINGTON\1 838130_1 .DOC

         SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING INDIVIDUALIZED MEDICAL
                            INTERVENTION FOR A DISEASE STATE
   Field of Invention
           The present invention generally relates to the application of molecular profiling to
   provide a system and method for determining medical intervention for a particular disease
   state. The system and method can be conducted at any stage of the disease,
                                                                                    In particular,
  the present invention relates to a system and method for determining medical intervention
   for a seriously diseased patient, for example, a patient with cancer that has progressed on at
  least two chemotherapeutic or hormonal regimens, where the method includes the molecular
  profiling of a biological sample from the patient, determining whether any molecular
  findings including one or more genes, gene expressed proteins, molecular mechanisms,
  and/or combinations of such molecular findings exhibit a change in expression compared to
  a normal reference, and identifying a drug therapy capable of interacting with the genes,
  gene expressed proteins, molecular mechanisms, or combinations of such molecular findings
  that exhibited a change in expression.
 Background of the Invention
          Disease states in patients are typically treated with treatment regimens or therapies
 that are selected based on clinical based criteria; that is, a treatment therapy or regimen is
 selected for a patient based on the determination that the patient has been diagnosed with a
 particular disease (which diagnosis has been made from classical diagnostic assays).
 Although the molecular mechanisms behind various disease states have been the subject of
 studies for years, the specific application of a diseased individual's molecular profile in
 determining treatment regimens and therapies for that individual has been disease specific
 and not widely pursued.
          Some treatment regimens have been determined using molecular profiling in
 combination with clinical characterization of a patient such as observations made by a
physician (such as a code from the International Classification of Diseases, for example, and
the dates such codes were determined), laboratory test results, x-rays, biopsy results,
statements made by the patient, and any other medical information typically relied upon by a
physician to make a diagnosis in a specific disease. However, using a combination of
selection material based on molecular profiling and clinical characterizations (such as the
diagnosis of a particular type of cancer) to determine a treatment regimen or therapy
                                                 1

    presents a risk that an effective treatment regimen may be overlooked for a particular
    individual since some treatment regimens may work well for different disease states even
    though they are associated with treating a particular type of disease state.
            Patients with metastatic cancer are of particular concern for treating physicians. The
    majority of patients with metastatic cancer eventually run out of treatment options for their
    tumors.   These patients have very limited options after their tumor has progressed on
   standard front line and second line (and sometimes third line and beyond) therapies.
   Although these patients may participate in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials for new
   anticancer agents, they must usually meet very strict eligibility criteria to do so. Studies
   have shown that when patients participate in these types of trials, the new anticancer agent
   may give response rates of anywhere from 5% to 10% on average in Phase I settings to 12%
   in Phase II settings. These patients also have the option of electing to receive the best
   supportive care to treat their symptoms.
           There has recently been an explosion of interest in developing new anticancer agents
  that are more targeted against a cell surface receptor or an up regulated or amplified gene
  product. This approach has met with some success (e.g. Herceptin against HER2/neu in
  breast cancer cells, rituximab against CD20 in lymphoma cells, bevacizamab against VEGF,
  Cetuximab against EGFR, etc.). However, patients' tumors still eventually progress on
  these therapies. If a larger number of targets or molecular findings such as molecular
  mechanisms, genes, gene expressed proteins, and/or combinations of such were measured in
  a patient's tumor, one may find additional targets or molecular findings that can be exploited
  by using specific therapeutic agents. Identifying multiple agents that can treat multiple
 targets or underlying mechanisms would provide a metastatic cancer patient with a viable
 therapeutic alternative to those treatment regimens which currently exist.
          Accordingly, there is a need for a system and method for determining an
 individualized medical intervention for a disease state based on molecular profiling that is
 used to target specific genes and/or gene expressed proteins with specific drugs or agents
 that is independent of disease lineage diagnosis.
Summary of the Invention
          The present invention is directed to a system and method for determining
individualized medical intervention for a particular disease state. One exemplary method of
the present invention for determining medical intervention for a disease state includes the
steps of performing a test for a gene and/or a test for a gene expressed protein from a
                                                2

    biological sample of a diseased individual, determining which genes and/or gene expressed
    proteins exhibited change in expression compared to a reference, and identifying a drug
   therapy used to interact with the gene and/or gene expressed proteins that exhibited a change
   of expression that is not single disease restricted. In one aspect of this exemplary
   embodiment of the invention, the step of identifying a drug therapy used to interact with a
   gene and/or gene expressed protein that exhibited a change in expression may include the
   step of identifying a drug therapy from an automated review of an extensive literature
   database and/or data generated from clinical trials.
            In another aspect of the above-described exemplary embodiment of the present
  invention, the step of performing a test for a gene and/or a test for a gene expressed protein
  may include the step of performing an immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis and/or a micro
  array analysis. Further, the step of performing a micro array analysis may include the step
  of performing an analysis using an expression micro array, a comparative genomic
  hybridization (CGH) micro array, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) micro array, a
  fluorescent in-situ hybridization (ISH), an in-situ hybridization (ISH), and a proteomic
  array.     In addition, the step of performing an IHC analysis may include the step of
  performing an IHC analysis for a gene expressed protein which includes at least one of
  Her2/Neu, ER, PR, c-kit, EGFR, MLHl, MSH2, CD20, p53, Cyclin DI, bcl2, COX-2,
  Androgen receptor, CD52, PDGFR, AR, CD25, and VEGF.
           In another aspect of the invention, the step of performing a micro array analysis in
 the above-described exemplary method for determining medical intervention for a disease
 state may include the step of performing a micro array analysis for a gene which includes at
 least one of BCL2, HIFI A, AR, ESRI, PDGFRA, , KIT, PDGFRB, CDW52, ZAP70, PGR,
 SPARC, GART, GSTP1, NFKBIA, MSH2, TXNRDI, HDACI, PDGFC, PTEN, CD33,
 TYMS, RXRB, ADA, TNF, ERCC3, RAFl, VEGF, TOP 1, TOP2A, BRCA2, TKJ, FOLR2,
 TOP2B, MLH1, IL2RA, DNMTI, HSPCA, ERBR2, ERBB2, SSTRI, VHL, VDR, PTGS2,
 POLA, CES2, EGFR, OGFR, ASNS, NFKB2, RARA, MS4AI, DCK,
                                                                             DNMT3A, EREG,
 Epiregulin, FOLRJ, GNRHI, GNRHRl, FSHB, FSHR, FSHPRHI, folate receptor, HGF,
HIG1,     IL13RAI, LTB, ODCl, PPARG, PPARGCl, VHL, Lymphotoxin Beta Receptor,
Myc, TOP213 Topoisomerase IT, TOPO2B, TXN, VEGFC, ACE2, ADH IC,
                                                                                 ADH4, AGT,
AREG, CA2, CDK2, caveolin, and NFKB 1.
         In yet another aspect of the above-described exemplary method of the present
invention, the step of performing a test for a gene and/or a test for a gene expressed protein
from a biological sample of a diseased individual may include the step of performing an
                                                3

   immunohistochemical analysis on a tumor and the step of determining which genes and/or
   gene expressed proteins exhibit a change in expression compared to a reference may include
   the step of determining whether 30% or more of the tumor cells were +2 or greater standing
   for a particular gene expressed protein. In still another aspect of the above-described
   exemplary method of the present invention, the step of performing a test for a gene and/or a
   test for a gene expressed protein from a biological sample of a diseased individual may
   include the step of performing a micro array analysis on a tumor and the step of determining
  which genes and/or gene expressed proteins exhibit a change in expression compared to a
  reference may include the step of identifying which genes are up-regulated or down
  regulated by determining whether the full change of expression for a particular gene relative
  to a normal tissue of origin reference is significant at p < 0.001. Furthermore, the above
  described exemplary method of the present invention for determining medical intervention
  for a disease state may also include the step of providing a patient profile report which
  identifies the change in expression for the genes and/or gene expressed proteins along with a
 possible drug therapy for interaction with each of the genes and/or gene expressed proteins
 that exhibit a change in expression.
           Another exemplary embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method for
 identifying a drug therapy capable of interacting with a molecular target which includes the
 steps of identifying a molecular target in a plurality of diseased individuals that exhibits a
 change in expression when compared to a normal reference, administrating a drug therapy to
 the diseased individuals that exhibit the change in expression of the molecular target, and
 determining any changes in the molecular target of the diseased individuals after the drug
 therapy, Further, in one aspect of this exemplary embodiment of a method for identifying a
 drug therapy capable of interacting with the molecular target, the stop of identifying a
 molecular target in a plurality of diseased individuals that exhibits a change in expression
 when compared to a normal reference may include the step of performing a test for a gene
 and/or a test for a gene expressed protein from a biological sample of the diseased individual
 where the test comprises an immunohistochemical (I1C) analysis and/or a micro array
analysis.
          In yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a system is provided
for determining individualized medical intervention for a disease state where the system
includes a host server, a user interface for accessing the host server to access and input data,
a processor for processing the inputted data, a memory coupled to the processor for storing
the processed data and instructions for: a) accessing a molecular profile taken from a
                                                4

    biological specimen of a patient b) determining whether at least one of a gene, a gene
    expressed protein, a molecular mechanism, and other molecular findings resulting from the
    molecular profile exhibit change in expression compared to a normal reference, and c)
    accessing a drug therapy database to identify one or more drug therapies that interact with a
    gene, a gene expressed protein, a molecular mechanism, and/or other molecular findings that
    exhibited a change in expression, and a display means for displaying a gene, a gene
   expressed protein, a molecular mechanism, and other molecular findings exhibiting a change
   in expression and the drug therapies that interact with them. With respect to the exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention directed to the system for determining individualized
   medical intervention for a disease state, the molecular profile taken from the biological
   specimen may include the same immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis and micro array
   analysis described above with reference to the first exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention. In addition, the different types of these analyses along with the genes analyzed
  using these analyses may be the same as those described above with reference to the first
  exemplary embodiment of the present invention which is directed to a method for
  determining medical intervention for a disease state.
           Still another exemplary embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method
  for determining medical intervention for a disease state which includes the steps of
 performing at least one molecular test for at least one target from a biological sample of a
 diseased individual, determining whether the target exhibits a change in expression
 compared to a reference, and identifying at least one non-disease specific agent that interacts
 with the target that exhibits a change in expression. The step of identifying at least one non
 diseased specific agent that interacts with the target may include the step of identifying a
 drug therapy from an automated review of an extensive literature base and/or an automated
 review of data generated from clinical trials. In addition, the exemplary embodiment of the
present invention directed to a method for determining medical intervention for a disease
state may also include the step of providing a patient profile report which includes the
patient's test results for various targets and any proposed therapies based on those results.
          The step of performing at least one molecular test for at least one target from a
biological sample of a diseased individual in the exemplary embodiment of the present
invention directed to a method for determining medical intervention for a disease state may
include all of the above-described analyses relating to immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis
and micro array analysis and the genes analyzed using those analyses.
                                                 5

   Brief Description of the Drawings
            FIG. I illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a system for
   determining individualized medical intervention for a particular disease state that utilizes
   molecular profiling of a patient's biological specimen that is non disease specific.
            FIG. 2 is a flowchart of an exemplary embodiment of a method for determining
   individualized medical intervention for a particular disease state that utilizes molecular
   profiling of a patient's biological specimen that is non disease specific.
            FIGS. 3A through 3D illustrate an exemplary patient profile report in accordance
  with step 80 of FIG. 2.
           FIG. 4 is a flowchart of an exemplary embodiment of a method for identifying a drug
  therapy/agent capable of interacting with a target.
           FIGS. 5-14 are flowcharts and diagrams illustrating various parts of an information
  based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method in accordance with the
  present invention.
           FIGS. 15-25 are computer screen print outs associated with various parts of the
  information-based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method shown in
 FIGS. 5-14.
 Detailed Description
           The detailed description of exemplary embodiments herein makes reference to the
 accompanying drawings and pictures, which show the exemplary embodiment by way of
 illustration and its best mode.       While these exemplary embodiments are described in
sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, it should be
understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes
may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, the
detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of
limitation. For example, the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may
be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented. Moreover, any of the
functions or steps may be outsourced to or performed by one or more third parties.
Furthermore, any reference to singular includes plural embodiments, and any reference to
more than one component may include a singular embodiment.
          For the sake of brevity, conventional data networking, application development and
other functional aspects of the systems (and components of the individual operating
components of the systems) may not be described in detail herein.              Furthermore, the
                                                 6

   connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent
  exemplary functional relationships and/or physical couplings between the various elements.
  It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical
  connections may be present in a practical system.
          The various system components discussed herein may include one or more of the
  following: a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing
  digital data; a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data; an input digitizer
  coupled to the processor for inputting digital data; an application program stored in the
  memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the
  processor; a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information
  derived from digital data processed by the processor; and a plurality of databases. Various
  databases used herein may include: patient data such as family history, demography and
 environmental data, biological sample data, prior treatment and protocol data, patient
 clinical data, molecular profiling data of biological samples, data on therapeutic drug agents
 and/or investigative drugs, a gene library, a disease library, a drug library, patient tracking
 data, file management data, financial management data, billing data and/or like data useful
 in the operation of the system. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, user computer may
 include an operating system (e.g., Windows NT, 95/98/2000, OS2, UNIX, Linux, Solaris,
 MacOS, etc.) as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically
 associated with computers.     The computer may include any suitable personal computer,
 network computer, workstation, minicomputer, mainframe or the like. User computer can
 be in a home or medical/business environment with access to a network. In an exemplary
 embodiment, access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially-available
 web-browser software package.
         As used herein, the term "network" shall include any electronic communications
means which incorporates both hardware and software components of such. Communication
among the parties may be accomplished through any suitable communication channels, such
as, for example, a telephone network, an extranet, an intranet, Internet, point of interaction
device, personal digital assistant (e.g., Palm Pilot@, Blackberry@), cellular phone, kiosk,
etc.), online communications, satellite communications, off-line communications, wireless
communications, transponder communications, local area network (LAN), wide area
network (WAN), networked or linked devices, keyboard, mouse and/or any suitable
communication or data input modality.         Moreover, although the system is frequently
described herein as being implemented with TCP/IP communications protocols, the system
                                               7

   may also be implemented using IPX, Appletalk, IP-6, NetBIOS, OSI or any number of
   existing or future protocols. If the network is in the nature of a public network, such as the
   Internet, it may be advantageous to presume the network to be insecure and open to
   eavesdroppers.    Specific information related to the protocols, standards, and application
   software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled in the
                                                                                                art
   and, as such, need not be detailed herein.        See, for example, DILP NAIK,       INTERNET
   STANDARDS AND PROTOCOLS (1998); JAVA           2 COMPLETE, various authors, (Sybex 1999);
   DEBORAH RAY AND        ERIC RAY, MASTERING HTML 4.0 (1997); and LOSHIN, TCP/IP
   CLEARLY EXPLAINED        (1997)  and DAVID GOURLEY AND BRIAN TOTTY, HTTP, THE
  DEFINITIVE GUIDE (2002), the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
           The various system components may be independently, separately or collectively
  suitably coupled to the network via data links which includes, for example, a connection to
  an Internet Service Provider (ISP) over the local loop as is typically used in connection with
  standard modem communication, cable modem, Dish networks, ISDN, Digital Subscriber
  Line (DSL), or various wireless communication methods, see, e.g., GILBERT HELD,
 UNDERSTANDING        DATA COMMUNICATIONS         (1996),   which is hereby incorporated by
 reference. It is noted that the network may be implemented as other types of networks, such
 as an interactive television (ITV) network. Moreover, the system contemplates the use, sale
 or distribution of any goods, services or information over any network having similar
 functionality described herein.
          As used herein, "transmit" may include sending electronic data from one system
 component to another over a network connection. Additionally, as used herein, "data" may
 include encompassing information such as commands, queries, files, data for storage, and
the like in digital or any other form.
          The system contemplates uses in association with web services, utility computing,
pervasive and individualized computing, security and identity solutions, autonomic
computing, commodity computing, mobility and wireless solutions, open
                                                                             source, biometrics,
grid computing and/or mesh computing.
         Any databases discussed herein may include relational, hierarchical, graphical, or
object-oriented structure and/or any other database configurations. Common database
products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM (White Plains,
NY), various database products available from Oracle Corporation (Redwood Shores, CA),
Microsoft Access or Microsoft          SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation (Redmond,
Washington), or any other suitable database product.         Moreover, the databases may be
                                                8

    organized in any suitable manner, for example, as data tables or lookup tables. Each record
    may be a single file, a series of files, a linked series of data fields or any other data structure.
   Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association
   technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example, the association may be
   accomplished either manually or automatically.            Automatic association techniques may
   include, for example, a database search, a database merge, GREP, AGREP, SQL, using a
   key field in the tables to speed searches, sequential searches through all the tables
                                                                                             and files,
   sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup, and/or the like.
  The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function, for example, using
  a "key field" in pre-selected databases or data sectors.
           More particularly, a "key field" partitions the database according to the high-level
  class of objects defined by the key field. For example, certain types of data may be
  designated as a key field in a plurality of related data tables and the data tables may then be
  linked on the basis of the type of data in the key field. The data corresponding to the key
  field in each of the linked data tables is preferably the same or of the same type. However,
 data tables having similar, though not identical, data in the key fields may also be linked by
 using AGREP, for example. In accordance with one embodiment, any suitable data storage
 technique may be utilized to store data without a standard format. Data sets may be stored
 using any suitable technique, including, for example, storing individual files using an
 ISO/lEC 7816-4 file structure; implementing a domain whereby a dedicated file is selected
 that exposes one or more elementary files containing one or more data sets; using data sets
 stored in individual files using a hierarchical filing system; data sets stored as records in a
 single file (including compression, SQL accessible, hashed via one or more
                                                                                      keys, numeric,
 alphabetical by first tuple, etc.); Binary Large Object (BLOB); stored as ungrouped data
 elements encoded using ISO/IEC 7816-6 data elements; stored as ungrouped data elements
encoded using ISO/IEC Abstract Syntax Notation (ASN.1) as in ISO/lEC 8824 and 8825;
and/or other proprietary techniques that may include fractal compression methods, image
compression methods, etc.
          In one exemplary embodiment, the ability to store a wide variety of information in
different formats is facilitated by storing the information as a BLOB. Thus, any binary
information can be stored in a storage space associated with a data set. The BLOB method
may store data sets as ungrouped data elements formatted as a block of binary via a fixed
memory offset using either fixed storage allocation, circular queue techniques, or best
practices with respect to memory management (e.g., paged memory, least recently used,
                                                    9

  etc.).  By using BLOB methods, the ability to store various data sets that have different
  formats facilitates the storage of data by multiple and unrelated owners of the data sets. For
  example, a first data set which may be stored may be provided by a first party, a second data
  set which may be stored may be provided by an unrelated second party, and yet a third data
  set which may be stored, may be provided by a third party unrelated to the first and second
  party. Each of these three exemplary data sets may contain different information that is
  stored using different data storage formats and/or techniques. Further, each data set may
 contain subsets of data that also may be distinct from other subsets.
          As stated above, in various embodiments, the data can be stored without regard to a
 common format. However, in one exemplary embodiment, the data set (e.g., BLOB) may
 be annotated in a standard manner when provided for manipulating the data. The annotation
 may comprise a short header, trailer, or other appropriate indicator related to each data set
 that is configured to convey information useful in managing the various data sets.           For
 example, the annotation may be called a "condition header", "header", "trailer", or "status",
 herein, and may comprise an indication of the status of the data set or may include an
 identifier correlated to a specific issuer or owner of the data. Subsequent bytes of data may
be used to indicate for example, the identity of the issuer or owner of the data, user,
transaction/membership account identifier or the like. Each of these condition annotations
are further discussed herein.
         The data set annotation may also be used for other types of status information as well
as various other purposes.       For example, the data set annotation may include security
information establishing access levels. The access levels may, for example, be configured to
permit only certain individuals, levels of employees, companies, or other entities to access
data sets, or to permit access to specific data sets based on the transaction, issuer or owner of
data, user or the like. Furthermore, the security information may restrict/permit only certain
actions such as accessing, modifying, and/or deleting data sets. In one example, the data set
annotation indicates that only the data set owner or the user are permitted to delete a data
set, various identified users may be permitted to access the data set for reading, and others
are altogether excluded from accessing the data set.         However, other access restriction
parameters may also be used allowing various entities to access a data set with various
permission levels as appropriate. The data, including the header or trailer may be received
by a stand alone interaction device configured to add, delete, modify, or augment the data in
accordance with the header or trailer.
                                                10

           One skilled in the art will also appreciate that, for security reasons,
                                                                                   any databases,
   systems, devices, servers or other components of the system may consist of any combination
   thereof at a single location or at multiple locations, wherein each database or system
   includes any of various suitable security features, such as firewalls, access codes,
   encryption, decryption, compression, decompression, and/or the like.
           The computing unit of the web client may be further equipped with an Internet
  browser connected to the Internet or an intranet using standard dial-up, cable, DSTL or any
  other Internet protocol known in the art. Transactions originating at a web client may pass
  through a firewall in order to prevent unauthorized access from users of other networks.
  Further, additional firewalls may be deployed between the varying components of CMS to
  further enhance security.
          Firewall may include any hardware and/or software suitably configured to protect
 CMS components and/or enterprise computing resources from users of other networks.
 Further, a firewall may be configured to limit or restrict access to various systems and
 components behind the firewall for web clients connecting through a web server. Firewall
 may reside in varying configurations including Stateful Inspection, Proxy based and Packet
 Filtering among others. Firewall may be integrated within an web server or any other CMS
 components or may further reside as a separate entity.
          The computers discussed herein may provide a suitable website or other Internet
 based graphical user interface which is accessible by users. In one embodiment,
                                                                                            the
 Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS), Microsoft Transaction Server (MTS), and
 Microsoft SQL Server, are used in conjunction with the Microsoft operating system,
 Microsoft NT web server software, a Microsoft SQL Server database system, and a
 Microsoft Commerce Server. Additionally, components such as Access or Microsoft SQL
Server, Oracle, Sybase, Informix MySQL, Interbase, etc., may be used to provide an Active
Data Object (ADO) compliant database management system.
         Any of the communications, inputs, storage, databases or displays discussed herein
may be facilitated through a website having web pages. The term "web page" as it is used
herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to
interact with the user. For example, a typical website might include, in addition to standard
HTML documents, various forms, Java applets, JavaScript, active server pages (ASP),
common gateway interface scripts (CGI), extensible markup language (XML), dynamic
HTML, cascading style sheets (CSS), helper applications, plug-ins, and the like. A server
may include a web service that receives a request from a web server, the request including a
                                               11

    URL (http://yahoo.com/stockquotes/ge)        and an IP address (123.56.789.234).         The web
    server retrieves the appropriate web pages and sends the data or applications for the web
    pages to the IP address. Web services are applications that are capable of interacting with
    other applications over a communications means, such as the internet. Web services are
   typically based on standards or protocols such as XML, XSLT, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.
   Web services methods are well known in the art, and are covered in many standard texts.
   See, e.g., ALEx NGHIEM, IT WEB SERVICES: A ROADMAP FOR THE ENTERPRISE (2003),
   hereby incorporated by reference.
           The web-based clinical database for the system and method of the present invention
   preferably has the ability to upload and store clinical data files in native formats and is
   searchable on any clinical parameter. The database is also scalable and may utilize an EAV
  data model (metadata) to enter clinical annotations from any study for easy integration with
  other studies. In addition, the web-based clinical database is flexible and may be XML and
  XSLT enabled to be able to add user customized questions dynamically. Further, the
  database includes exportability to CDISC ODM.
           Practitioners will also appreciate that there are a number of methods for displaying
  data within a browser-based document. Data may be represented as standard text or within a
  fixed list, scrollable list, drop-down list, editable text field, fixed text field, pop-up window,
 and the like. Likewise, there are a number of methods available for modifying data in a web
 page such as, for example, free text entry using a keyboard, selection of menu items, check
 boxes, option boxes, and the like.
          The system and method may be described herein in terms of functional block
 components, screen shots, optional selections and various processing steps. It should be
 appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and/or
 software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example, the
system may employ various integrated circuit components, e-g., memory elements,
processing elements, logic elements, look-up tables, and the like, which may carry out a
variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control
devices.      Similarly, the software elements of the system may be implemented with any
programming or scripting language such as C, C++-,           Macromedia Cold Fusion, Microsoft
Active Server Pages, Java, COBOL, assembler, PERL, Visual Basic, SQL Stored
Procedures, extensible markup language (XML), with the various algorithms being
implemented with any combination of data structures, objects, processes, routines or other
programming elements. Further, it should be noted that the system may employ any number
                                                   12

  of conventional techniques for data transmission, signaling, data processing, network
  control, and the like. Still further, the system could be used to detect or prevent security
  issues with a client-side scripting language, such as JavaScript, VBScript or the like. For a
  basic introduction of cryptography and network security, see any of the following
  references: (1) "Applied Cryptography: Protocols, Algorithms, And Source Code In C," by
  Bruce Schneier, published by John Wiley & Sons (second edition, 1995); (2) "Java
  Cryptography" by Jonathan Knudson, published by O'Reilly & Associates (1998); (3)
  "Cryptography & Network Security: Principles & Practice" by William Stallings, published
 by Prentice Hall; all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
          As used herein, the term "end user", "consumer", "customer", "client", "treating
 physician", "hospital", or "business" may be used interchangeably with each other, and each
 shall mean any person, entity, machine, hardware, software or business. Each participant is
 equipped with a computing device in order to interact with the system and facilitate online
 data access and data input. The customer has a computing unit in the form of a personal
 computer, although other types of computing units may be used including laptops,
 notebooks, hand held computers, set-top boxes, cellular telephones, touch-tone telephones
 and the like. The owner/operator of the system and method of the present invention has a
 computing     unit implemented      in the form    of a computer-server,      although other
 implementations are contemplated by the system including a computing center shown as a
 main frame computer, a mini-computer, a PC server, a network of computers located in the
 same of different geographic locations, or the like. Moreover, the system contemplates the
use, sale or distribution of any goods, services or information over any network having
similar functionality described herein.
         In one exemplary embodiment, each client customer may be issued an "account" or
"account number". As used herein, the account or account number may include any device,
code, number, letter, symbol, digital certificate, smart chip, digital signal, analog signal,
biometric or other identifier/indicia suitably configured to allow the consumer to access,
interact with or communicate with the system (e.g., one or more of an authorization/access
code, personal identification number (PIN), Internet code, other identification code, and/or
the like). The account number may optionally be located on or associated with a charge
card, credit card, debit card, prepaid card, embossed card, smart card, magnetic stripe card,
bar code card, transponder, radio frequency card or an associated account. The system may
include or interface with any of the foregoing cards or devices, or a fob having a transponder
and RFID reader in RF communication with the fob. Although the system may include a
                                                13

   fob embodiment, the invention is not to be so limited. Indeed, system may include any
   device having a transponder which is configured to communicate with RFID reader via RF
   communication. Typical devices may include, for example, a key ring, tag, card, cell phone,
   wristwatch or any such form capable of being presented for interrogation. Moreover, the
   system, computing unit or device discussed herein may include a "pervasive computing
  device," which may include a traditionally non-computerized device that is embedded with a
  computing unit. The account number may be distributed and stored in any form of plastic,
  electronic, magnetic, radio frequency, wireless, audio and/or optical device capable of
  transmitting or downloading data from itself to a second device.
          As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the system may be
  embodied as a customization of an existing system, an add-on product, upgraded software, a
  stand alone system, a distributed system, a method, a data processing system, a device for
 data processing, and/or a computer program product. Accordingly, the system may take the
  form of an entirely software embodiment, an entirely hardware embodiment, or an
 embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware. Furthermore, the system
 may take the form of a computer program product on a computer-readable storage medium
 having computer-readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any
 suitable computer-readable storage medium may be utilized, including hard disks, CD
 ROM, optical storage devices, magnetic storage devices, and/or the like.
         The system and method is described herein with reference to screen shots, block
 diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods, apparatus (e.g., systems), and computer
program products according to various embodiments.           It will be understood that each
functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of
functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, respectively, can be
implemented by computer program instructions.
         Referring now to Figures 2-25 the process flows and screenshots depicted are merely
embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as described herein.
For example, the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed
in any order and are not limited to the order presented. It will be appreciated that the
following description makes appropriate references not only to the steps and user interface
elements depicted in Figures 2-25, but also to the various system components as described
above with reference to Figure 1.
         These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose
computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to
                                              14

   produce a machine, such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other
   programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions
   specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also
   be stored in a computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable
   data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored
   in the computer-readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction
   means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The
   computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable
   data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the
   computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process
  such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus
  provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
           Accordingly, functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations
  support combinations of means for performing the specified functions, combinations of
  steps for performing the specified functions, and program instruction means for performing
  the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block
  diagrams and flowchart illustrations, and combinations of functional blocks in the block
 diagrams and flowchart illustrations, can be implemented by either special purpose
 hardware-based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps, or
 suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further,
 illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user
 windows, webpages, websites, web forms, prompts, etc. Practitioners will appreciate that
 the illustrated steps described herein may comprise in any number of configurations
 including the use of windows, webpages, web forms, popup windows, prompts and the like.
 It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be
combined into single webpages and/or windows but have been expanded for the sake of
simplicity. In other cases, steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be
separated into multiple webpages and/or windows but have been combined for simplicity.
         Benefits, other advantages, and solutions to problems have been described herein
with regard to specific embodiments. However, the benefits, advantages, solutions to
problems, and any element(s) that may cause any benefit, advantage, or solution to occur or
become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical, required, or essential features
or elements of any or all the claims or the invention. The scope of the invention is
accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims, in which reference to
                                               15

   an element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and only one" unless explicitly so
   stated, but rather "one or more." All structural, chemical, and functional equivalents to the
   elements of the above-described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of
   ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be
   encompassed by the present claims. Moreover, it is not necessary for a device or method to
  address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present invention, for it to be
  encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore, no element, component, or method step in
  the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the
  element, component, or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element
  herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112, sixth paragraph, unless the
  element is expressly recited using the phrase "means for." As used herein, the terms
  "comprises", "comprising", or any other variation thereof, are intended
                                                                                 to cover a non
  exclusive inclusion, such that a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of
  elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly
  listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. Further, no element
  described herein is required for the practice of the invention unless expressly described as
  "essential" or "critical".
           FIG. I is a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a system 10 for
  determining individualized medical intervention for a particular disease state that utilizes
 molecular profiling of a patient's biological specimen. System 10 includes a user interface
  12, a host server 14 including a processor 16 for processing data, a memory 18 coupled to
 the processor, an application program 20 stored in the memory 18 and accessible by the
 processor 16 for directing processing of the data by the processor 16, a plurality of internal
 databases 22 and external databases 24, and an interface with a wired or wireless
 communications network 26 (such as the Internet, for example).            System 10 may also
 include an input digitizer 28 coupled to the processor 16 for inputting digital data from data
 that is received from user interface 12.
          User interface 12 includes an input device 30 and a display 32 for inputting data into
system 10 and for displaying information derived from the data processed by processor 16.
User interface 12 may also include a printer 34 for printing the information derived from the
data processed by the processor 16 such as patient reports that may include test results for
targets and proposed drug therapies based on the test results.
          Internal databases 22 may include, but are not limited to, patient biological
sample/specimen information and tracking, clinical data, patient data, patient tracking, file
                                                 16

   management, study protocols, patient test results from molecular profiling, and billing
   information and tracking. External databases 24 nay include, but are not limited to, drug
   libraries, gene libraries, disease libraries, and public and private databases such as UniGene,
   OMIM, GO, TIGR, GenBank, KEGG and Biocarta.
            Various methods may be used in accordance with system 10. FIG. 2 shows a
   flowchart of an exemplary embodiment of a method 50 for determining individualized
   medical intervention for a particular disease state that utilizes molecular profiling of a
  patient's biological specimen that is non disease specific. In order to determine a medical
   intervention for a particular disease state using molecular profiling that is independent of
  disease lineage diagnosis (i.e. not single disease restricted), at least one test is performed for
  at least one target from a biological sample of a diseased patient in step 52. A target is
  defined as any molecular finding that may be obtained from molecular testing. For
                                                                                            example,
  a target may include one or more genes, one or more gene expressed proteins, one or more
  molecular mechanisms, and/or combinations of such. Tests for finding such targets may
  include, but are not limited to an immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis, a micro array
  analysis such as a comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) micro array, a single
 nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) micro array, a fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH), an
 in-situ hybridization (ISH), and a proteomic array, and other molecular tests known to those
 skilled in the art. Accordingly, one or more of the following may be performed: an IHC
 analysis in step 54, a microanalysis in step 56, and other molecular tests know to those
 skilled in the art in step 58.
          Biological samples are obtained from diseased patients by taking a biopsy of a
 tumor, conducting minimally invasive surgery if no recent tumor is available, obtaining a
 sample of the patient's blood, or a sample of any other biological fluid including, but not
 limited to, cell extracts, nuclear extracts, cell lysates or biological products or substances of
biological origin such as excretions, blood, sera, plasma, urine, sputum, tears, feces, saliva,
membrane extracts, and the like.
          In step 60, a determination is made as to whether one or more of the targets that were
tested for in step 52 exhibit a change in expression compared to a normal reference for that
particular target.     In one exemplary method of the invention, an IHC analysis may be
performed in step 54 and a determination as to whether any targets from the IHC analysis
exhibit a change in expression is made in step 64 by determining whether 30% or more of
the biological sample cells were +2 or greater staining for the particular target. It will be
understood by those skilled in the art that there will be instances where -1 or greater
                                                   17

   staining will indicate a change in expression in that staining results may vary depending on
   the technician performing the test and type of target being tested.       In another exemplary
   embodiment of the invention, a micro array analysis may be performed in step 56 and a
   determination as to whether any targets from the micro array analysis exhibit a change in
   expression is made in step 66 by identifying which targets are up-regulated or down
   regulated by determining whether the fold change in expression for a particular target
  relative to a normal tissue of origin reference is significant at p< 0.001. A change in
  expression may also be evidenced by an absence of one or more genes, gene expressed
  proteins, molecular mechanisms, or other molecular findings.
           After determining which targets exhibit a change in expression in step 60, at least
  one non-disease specific agent is identified that interacts with each target having a changed
  expression in step 70. An agent may be any drug or compound having a therapeutic effect.
  A non-disease specific agent is a therapeutic drug or compound not previously associated
  with treating the patient's diagnosed disease that is capable of interacting with the target
  from the patient's biological sample that has exhibited a change in expression. Some of the
 non-disease specific agents that have been found to interact with specific targets found in
 different cancer patients are shown in Table I below.
          Table 1
               Patients                  Target(s) Found            Treatment(s
               Advanced Pancreatic       HER 2/neu                  HerceptinTM
               Cancer                    (IHC/Array)
               Advanced Pancreatic       EGFR (IHC), HIF Ia        ErbituxTM,
               Cancer                                              RapamycinT14
               Advanced Ovarian          ERCC3 (Array)             Irofulvene
               Cancer
               Advanced Adenoid          Vitamin D receptors,      CalcitriolvM,
               Cystic Carcinoma          Androgenreceptors         FlutamideTM
          Finally, in step 80, a patient profile report may be provided which includes the
patient's test results for various targets and any proposed therapies based on those results,
An exemplary patient profile report 100 is shown in FIGS. 3A-3D.            Patient profile report
 100 shown in Fig. 3A identifies the targets tested 102, those targets tested that exhibited
significant changes in expression 104, and proposed non-disease specific agents for
interacting with the targets 106. Patient profile report 100 shown in Fig. 3B identifies the
results 108 of immunohistochemical analysis for certain gene expressed proteins 110 and
whether a gene expressed protein is a molecular target 112 by determining whether 30% or
                                                18

  more of the tumor cells were +2 or greater staining.             Report 100 also identifies
  immunohistochemical tests that were not performed 114. Patient profile report 100 shown
  in Fig. 3C identifies the genes analyzed 116 with a micro array analysis and whether the
 genes were under expressed or over expressed 118 compared to a reference. Finally, patient
 profile report 100 shown in Fig. 3D identifies the clinical history 120 of the patient and the
 specimens that were submitted 122 from the patient.
          FIG. 4 shows a flowchart of an exemplary embodiment of a method 200 for
 identifying a drug therapy/agent capable of interacting with a target.        In step 202, a
 molecular target is identified which exhibits a change in expression in a number of diseased
 individuals.    Next, in step 204, a drug therapy/agent is administered to the diseased
 individuals. After drug therapy/agent administration, any changes in the molecular target
 identified in step 202 are identified in step 206 in order to determine if the drug
 therapy/agent administered in step 204 interacts with the molecular targets identified in step
 202. If it is determined that the drug therapy/agent administered in step 204 interacts with a
 molecular target identified in step 202, the drug therapy/agent may be approved for treating
 patients exhibiting a change in expression of the identified molecular target instead of
 approving the drug therapy/agent for a particular disease.
         FIGS. 5-14 are flowcharts and diagrams illustrating various parts of an information
based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method in accordance with the
present invention. FIG. 5 is a diagram showing an exemplary clinical decision support
system of the information-based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method
of the present invention. Data obtained through clinical research and clinical care such as
clinical trial data, biomedical/molecular imaging data, genomics/proteomics/chemical
library/literature/expert curation, biospecimen tracking/LIMS, family history/environmental
records, and clinical data are collected and stored as databases and datamarts within a data
warehouse. FIG. 6 is a diagram showing the flow of information through the clinical
decision support system of the information-based personalized medicine drug discovery
system and method of the present invention using web services. A user interacts with the
system by entering data into the system via form-based entry/upload of data sets,
formulating queries and executing data analysis jobs, and acquiring and evaluating
representations of output data. The data warehouse in the web based system is where data is
extracted, transformed, and loaded from various database systems. The data warehouse is
also where common formats, mapping and transformation occurs. The web based system
also includes datamarts which are created based on data views of interest,
                                               19

           A flow chart of an exemplary clinical decision support system of the information
   based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention is
   shown in FIG. 7. The clinical information management system includes the laboratory
   information management system and the medical information contained in the data
   warehouses and databases includes medical information libraries, such as drug libraries,
   gene libraries, and disease libraries, in addition to literature text mining. Both the
   information management systems relating to particular patients and the medical information
   databases and data warehouses come together at a data junction center where diagnostic
   information and therapeutic options can be obtained. A financial management system may
  also be incorporated in the clinical decision support system of the information-based
  personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention.
          FIG. 8 is a diagram showing an exemplary biospecimen tracking and management
  system which may be utilized as part of the information-based personalized medicine drug
  discovery system and method of the present invention. FIG. 8 shows two host medical
  centers which forward specimens to a tissue/blood bank. The specimens may go through
  laboratory analysis prior to shipment, Research may also be conducted on the samples via
  micro array, genotyping, and proteomic analysis. This information can be redistributed to
 the tissue/blood bank. FIG. 9 depicts a flow chart of an exemplary biospecimen tracking
 and management system which may be utilized with the information-based personalized
 medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention. The host medical
 center obtains samples from patients and then ships the patient samples to a molecular
 profiling laboratory which may also perform RNA and DNA isolation and analysis.
         A diagram showing a method for maintaining a clinical standardized vocabulary for
 use with the information-based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of
 the present invention is shown in FIG. 10. FIG. 10 illustrates how physician observations
and patient information associated with one physician's patient may be made accessible to
another physician to enable the other physician to utilize the data in making diagnostic and
therapeutic decisions for their patients.
         FIG. II shows a schematic of an exemplary micro array gene expression database
which may be used as part of the information-based personalized medicine drug discovery
system and method of the present invention. The micro array gene expression database
includes both external databases and internal databases which can be accessed via the web
based system. External databases may include, but are not limited to, UniGene, GO, TIGR,
GenBank, KEGG. The internal databases may include, but are not limited to, tissue
                                             20

  tracking, LIMS, clinical data, and patient tracking.       FIG. 12 shows a diagram of an
 exemplary micro array gene expression database data warehouse which may be used as part
 of the information-based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the
 present invention. Laboratory data, clinical data, and patient data may all be housed in the
 micro array gene expression database data warehouse and the data may in turn be accessed
 by public/private release and utilized by data analysis tools.
          Another schematic showing the flow of information through an information-based
 personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention is shown
 in FIG. 13. Like FIG. 7, the schematic includes clinical information management, medical
 and literature information management, and financial management of the information-based
 personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention. FIG. 14
 is a schematic showing an exemplary network of the information-based personalized
 medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention.        Patients, medical
practitioners, host medical centers, and labs all share and exchange a variety of information
 in order to provide a patient with a proposed therapy or agent based on various identified
targets.
         FIGS. 15-25 are computer screen print outs associated with various parts of the
information-based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method shown in
FIGS. 5-14.     FIGS. 15 and 16 show computer screens where physician information and
insurance company information is entered on behalf of a client.          FIGS. 17-19 show
computer screens in which information can be entered for ordering analysis and tests on
patient samples.
         FIG. 20 is a computer screen showing micro array analysis results of specific genes
tested with patient samples.      This information and computer screen is similar to the
information detailed in the patient profile report shown in FIG. 3C. FIG. 22 is a computer
screen that shows immunohistochemistry test results for a particular patient for various
genes. This information is similar to the information contained in the patient profile report
shown in FIG. 3B.
         FIG. 21 is a computer screen showing selection options for finding particular
patients, ordering tests and/or results, issuing patient reports, and tracking current
cases/patients.
         FIG. 23 is a computer screen which outlines some of the steps for creating a patient
profile report as shown in FIGS. 3A through 3D. FIG. 24 shows a computer screen for
ordering an immunohistochemistry test on a patient sample and FIG. 25 shows a computer
                                               21

 screen for entering information regarding a primary tumor site for micro array analysis. It
 will be understood by those skilled in the art that any number and variety of computer
 screens may be utilized to enter the information necessary for utilizing the information
 based personalized medicine drug discovery system and method of the present invention and
 to obtain information resulting from utilizing the information-based personalized medicine
 drug discovery system and method of the present invention.
         It will also be understood that the foregoing description is of preferred exemplary
 embodiments of the invention and that the invention is not limited to the specific forms
 shown or described herein. Various modifications may be made in the design, arrangement,
 and type of elements disclosed herein, as well as the steps of utilizing the invention without
 departing from the scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.
         The present application is a divisional of Australian patent application no.
<removed-apn>, which is incorporated by reference herein.
                                              22

CLAIMS
1.        A method for determining a medical intervention for an individual diagnosed with a
cancer comprising the steps of:
          performing a test for a plurality of molecular targets in a biological sample from the
individual, wherein the molecular targets comprise EGFR, KIT, TOPI, MLHl, PTEN,
PDGFRA and ERRB2;
          determining which molecular targets exhibit a change as compared to a reference;
          identifying at least one therapeutic agent from a listing of available therapeutic agents
for the plurality of molecular targets, wherein the determined change indicates a likely benefit
of the at least one therapeutic agent for treating the cancer in the individual, thereby
determining the medical intervention for the individual.
2.        The method of claim 1 wherein the listing of available therapeutic agents for the
plurality of molecular targets comprises therapeutic agents identified by at least one of an
automated review of an extensive literature database and data generated from clinical trials.
3.        The method of claim 1 wherein the test for the plurality of molecular targets
comprises at least one of an immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis, genotype analysis, and a
micro array analysis.
4.        The method of claim 3 wherein the immunohistochemical analysis is performed on a
tumor sample from the individual and comprises determining whether 30% or more of the
tumor cells in the tumor sample were +2 or greater staining for a particular gene expressed
protein.
5.        The method of claim 3 wherein the micro array analysis is performed on a tumor
sample from the individual and comprises determining which genes are up-regulated or
down-regulated by determining whether the fold change in expression for a particular gene
relative to a normal tissue of origin reference is significant at p < 0.001.
6.        The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a patient profile report listing the
                                                  23
3418416v1

at least one therapeutic agent identified as having a likely benefit for treating the cancer in the
individual.
7.        A system for generating a report identifying at least one therapeutic agent for an
individual with a cancer comprising:
          a. at least one device configured to assay a plurality of molecular targets in a
biological sample from the individual to determine individualized molecular profile test
values for the plurality of molecular targets, wherein the molecular targets comprise EGFR,
KIT, TOPI, MLH1, PTEN, PDGFRA and ERRB2; and
          b. at least one computer database comprising:
                   i.      a reference value for the plurality of molecular targets, and
                   ii.     a listing of available therapeutic agents for the plurality of molecular
targets;
          c. a computer-readable program code comprising instructions to input the
individualized molecular profile test values and to compare the test values with a
corresponding reference value in (b)(i);
          d. a computer-readable program code comprising instructions to access the at least one
computer database and to identify at least one therapeutic agent from the listing of available
therapeutic agents for the plurality of molecular targets wherein the comparison to the
reference in (c) indicates a likely benefit of the at least one therapeutic agent for treating the
cancer in the individual; and
          e. a computer-readable program code comprising instructions to generate a report that
comprises a listing of the molecular targets wherein the comparison to the reference indicated
a likely benefit of the at least one therapeutic agent in (d) along with the at least one
therapeutic agent identified in (d).
8.        The system of claim 7, wherein the individualized molecular profile test values are
input into the system from a location that is remote from the at least one database.
9.        The system of claim 7, wherein the individualized molecular profile test values are
input into the system over an internet connection.
10.       The system of claim 7 wherein the report is in electronic or paper format.
                                                    24
3418416v1

11.       The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one computer database further comprises
data corresponding to at least one clinical trial of a molecular target.
12.       The system of claim 7, wherein the reference value for each of the plurality of
molecular targets comprises a nucleic acid and/or protein.
13.       The system of claim 7, wherein the test values for the plurality of molecular targets in
the individual are determined after the individual has received drug therapy for the cancer.
14.       The system of claim 7, wherein the molecular profile test values are determined by
assessing a cell, tissue sample, blood sample or combination thereof
15.       The system of claim 7, wherein the molecular profile test values are determined by
performing a test for a gene and/or a protein.
16.       The system of claim 7, wherein the reference is obtained from at least one normal
individual without the cancer.
17.       The system of claim 7, wherein the individual has been treated by and failed to
respond to a cancer therapeutic.
18.       The system of claim 7, wherein the individual has been treated by and failed to
respond to at least one cancer therapeutic.
19.       The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one device configured to assay the
plurality of molecular targets is configured to perform at least one of immunohistochemistry
(IHC), an expression microarray, a comparative genomic hybridization (CHU) microarray, a
single nucleotide poly-morphism (SNP) microarray, a fluorescent in-situ hybridization
(FISH), in-situ hybridization QSH), and a proteomic array.
20.       The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one device configured to assay the
plurality of molecular targets is configured to perform at least one of a microarray,
                                                 25
3418416v1

genotyping and proteomic analysis.
21.       The system of any one of claims 7-20, further comprising a device configured for
acquisition of a biological sample.
22.       A method for determining a medical intervention for an individual diagnosed with a
cancer comprising the steps of:
          performing at least one molecular test for a plurality of molecular targets from a
biological sample of the individual, wherein the molecular targets comprise EGFR, KIT,
TOPI, MLH1, PTEN, PDGFRA and ERRB2;
          determining whether at least one molecular target exhibits a change as compared to a
reference; and
          identifying at least one non-cancer specific agent from a listing of available non
cancer specific agents for the plurality of molecular targets, wherein the determined change
indicates a likely benefit of the at least one non-cancer specific agent for treating the cancer in
the individual, thereby determining the medical intervention for the individual.
23.       The method of claim 22 wherein the listing of available non-cancer specific agents
comprises non-cancer specific agents identified byat least one of an automated review of an
extensive literature database and data generated from clinical trials.
24.       The method of claim 22 wherein the at least one molecular test for at least one target
comprises at least one of an immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis, genotype analysis, and a
micro array analysis.
25.       The method of claim 24 wherein the micro array analysis comprises an analysis using
at least one of an expression micro array, a comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) micro
array, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) micro array, a fluorescent in-situ
hybridization (FISH), and in-situ hybridization (ISH), and a proteomic array.
26.       The method of claim 24 wherein the immunohistochemical analysis is performed on a
tumor sample from the individual and comprises determining whether 30% or more of the
tumor cells were +2 or greater staining for a particular gene expressed protein.
                                                 26
3418416v1

27.       The method of claim 24 wherein the micro array analysis is performed on a tumor
sample from the individual and comprises determining which genes are up-regulated or
down-regulated by determining whether the fold change in expression for a particular gene
relative to a normal tissue of origin reference is significant at p < 0.001.
28.       The method of claim 22 further comprising providing a patient profile report which
includes the patient's test results for various targets and any proposed non-disease specific
agents of likely benefit based on those results.
29.       The system of any one of claims 7-21 when used for the method of any one of claims
1-6, or the method of any one of claims 22-28.
                                                  27
3418416v1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
