                                  43
   ABSTRACT
   A computer system for providing digital advertiser referrals
   comprising a third party referral provider operable to maintain
 5 a store of digital referral objects, each digital referral
   object associated with an advertiser for referral to a consumer.
   The third party referral provider being further operable to
   engage with a consumer while the consumer is accessing digital
   content on a publisher site subscribing to the third party
10 referral provider by way of a computer presentation interface,
   such that once the consumer has engaged with the third party
   referral provider, the third party referral provider is operable
   to refer one or more of the advertisers to the consumer through
   presentation of an associated digital referral object on the
15 presentation interface.
    (FIGURE 1)

               1/7
CN          co
   VE
      a.
         U)        a)

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are 33 pages of description only

                    AUSTRALIA
                   PatentsAct 1990 (Cth)
COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        APPLICANT
                    Rokt Pte. Ltd.
                           TITLE
 A Digital Advertisement System and Method
       The invention is described in the following statement:

               A Digital Advertisement System and Method
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates generally to digital advertising
 5 systems and methods.
   Background of the Invention
   Typical digital advertising currently falls under two main
   categories,  namely "search-based" advertising and "display
10 based" adverting. Both forms of digital advertising provide
   advertising relevance through active targeting.
   Search-based advertising involves presenting advertisements to
   computer users  (referred to herein interchangeably as
15 "consumers") based on keyword searches made by the consumers
   whilst performing on-line   searching   (e.g. using GoogleTM,  YahooTM
   and the like).   Advertisers bid on keywords they would like to
   appear alongside   (e.g. in the results page) and are typically
   charged on a performance based model     (e.g. a "cost-per-click"
20 model) when a consumer engages with their advertisement.
   Display-based advertising involves presenting images      and/or
   flash animation to consumers whilst consuming content across
   online and mobile environments.     Normally advertisers using this
25 mode of advertising are charged on a cost-per-impression        (CPM)
   or cost-per-click   (CPC) model. Traditionally, display
   advertisers would target their advertisements in association
   with a type of content currently being consumed by the consumer.
   In recent times, display-based advertising has evolved to
30 additionally evaluate attributes of the consumer in order to
   better target the advertisements    displayed to the consumer.
   While digital search and display-based advertising are currently
   regarded as the most effective way for presenting advertising to
35 consumers of digital content, the actual     consumer engagement
   levels are still very low    (often resulting in less than    0.1% of
   consumers actively following up on the advertisement).

                                   3
   Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there
   is provided a computer implemented method for providing digital
   referrals, the method comprising: maintaining a store of digital
 5 referral objects, each digital referral object associated with
   an advertiser for referral to a consumer; facilitating a
   consumer engagement with a third party referral provider while
   the consumer is accessing digital content on a subscribing
   publisher site; and once the consumer has engaged with the third
10 party referral provider, referring one or more of the
   advertisers to the consumer through presentation of an
   associated digital referral object.
   In an embodiment the engagement is facilitated by way of an
15 engagement offer presented to the consumer while the consumer is
   interfacing with the subscribing publisher site.
   In an embodiment the engagement offer is an offering determined
   to be of interest to the consumer based on one or more of an
20 interfacing context and consumer demographic.
   In an embodiment the presentation of the engagement offer to the
   consumer provides no direct advertising benefit to the
   advertisers referred to the consumer post engagement.
25
   In an embodiment a plurality of different publishers  subscribe
   to the third party referral provider such that the consumer can
   engage with the third party referral provider while accessing
   any one of the different publisher sites.
30
   In an embodiment the digital referral object comprises an
   offering related to goods and/or services provided by the
   advertiser.
35 In an embodiment the method further comprises causing a
   communication to be sent from the subscribing publisher to the

                                   4
   consumer endorsing the advertiser associated with the presented
   digital referral object after the consumer has accepted the
   corresponding offering.
 5 In an embodiment the method further comprises identifying one or
   more attributes of the engagement and wherein each of the
   digital referral objects are associated with one or more
   identifiable engagement attributes.
10 In an embodiment the method further comprises selecting the
   digital referral object for presenting to the consumer based on
   an association with the identified engagement attribute (s).
   In an embodiment the engagement attributes are associated with
15 identifiable consumer attributes selected from the following:
   consumer age, consumer gender, consumer location.
   In an embodiment the engagement attributes are associated with
   identifiable interfacing context parameters, including: time
20 that the consumer is interfacing with the digital content,
   digital content type.
   In an embodiment the association between the digital referral
   object and engagement attribute(s) is specified by the
25 corresponding advertiser.
   In an embodiment the method further comprises deriving revenue
   from the advertiser associated with the digital referral
   presented to the consumer.
30
   In an embodiment the third party referral provider derives
   revenue from an advertiser responsive to the consumer indicating
   that they are interested offering associated with the digital
   referral object.
35

                                    5
   In an embodiment an amount paid by the advertiser for the
   referral is determined, at least in part, based on a number of
   other advertiser referral objects associated with the same
   identifiable engagement attributes.
 5
   In an embodiment the method further comprises determining a
   performance of the digital referral object and wherein the
   performance is evaluated when determining whether to present the
   digital referral object to a consumer during a subsequent
10 engagement with the third party referral provider.
   In an embodiment the performance is determined by evaluating
   whether the consumer accepted an offering associated with the
   digital referral object.
15
   In an embodiment the offering is to find out more about goods
   and/or services provided by the advertiser and wherein following
   acceptance of the offer, the consumer  is contacted by the
   advertiser.
20
   In an embodiment the method further comprises the third party
   referral provider providing contact details of the consumer to
   the advertiser for making the contact.
25 In an embodiment the offering is to receive ongoing
   communications  from the advertiser and wherein following an
   acceptance of the offer, the consumer  is automatically added to
   a mailing list for receiving on-going communications from the
   advertiser.
30
   In an embodiment the offering is a retail related offering for
   goods and/or services sold by the advertiser selected from the
   group comprising:  discounts, coupons, loyalty points, entry into
   a prize draw and free membership.
35

                                   6
   In an embodiment, following an acceptance of the retail related
   offering, the consumer is directed to a website for conducting
   an e-commerce transaction to complete the retail related
   offering.
 5
   In an embodiment in order to accept the offering the consumer is
   required to endorse the advertiser through a social media
   channel.
10 In accordance with a second aspect there is provided a computer
   system for providing digital advertiser referrals, the system
   comprising: a third party referral provider operable to maintain
   a store of digital referral objects, each digital referral
   object associated with an advertiser for referral to a consumer,
15 the third party referral provider being further operable to
   engage with a consumer while the consumer is accessing digital
   content on a publisher site subscribing to the third party
   referral provider by way of a computer presentation interface,
   such that once the consumer has engaged with the third party
20 referral provider, the third party referral provider is operable
   to refer one or more of the advertisers to the consumer through
   presentation of an associated digital referral object on the
   presentation interface.
25 In an embodiment the engagement is facilitated by way of an
   engagement offer presented to the consumer while the consumer is
   interfacing with the subscribing publisher site.
   In an embodiment the engagement offer is determined to be of
30 interest to the consumer based on one or more of an interfacing
   context and consumer demographic determined by the third party
   referral provider.
   In an embodiment the presentation of the engagement offer to the
35 consumer provides no direct advertising benefit to the
   advertisers referred to the consumer post engagement.

                                   7
   In an embodiment the subscribing publisher site is a website and
   wherein the engagement object is presented to the consumer by
   way of script which is communicated with computer code delivered
 5 to the presentation interface by the subscribing publisher site
   for rendering the digital content.
   In an embodiment a plurality of different publisher sites
   subscribe to the third party referral provider such that the
10 consumer can engage with the third party referral provider while
   accessing any one of the different publisher sites.
   In an embodiment the digital referral object comprises an
   offering related to goods and/or services provided by the
15 advertiser.
   In an embodiment the third party referral provider is further
   operable to facilitate a communication from the subscribing
   publisher site to the consumer endorsing the advertiser
20 responsive to the consumer accepting the good and/or services
   related offering.
   In an embodiment the third party referral provider is further
   operable to identify one or more attributes of the engagement
25 and wherein each of the digital referral objects maintained by
   the third party referral provider are associated with one or
   more identifiable engagement attributes.
   In an embodiment the third party referral provider is operable
30 to select the digital referral object for presenting to the
   consumer based on an association with the identified engagement
   attribute (s).
   In an embodiment the engagement attributes are associated with
35 identifiable consumer attributes selected from the following:
   consumer age, consumer gender, consumer location.

                                   8
   In an embodiment the engagement attributes are associated with
   identifiable interfacing context parameters, including: a time
   that the consumer is interfacing with the digital content,
 5 nature of the digital content.
   In an embodiment the association between the digital referral
   object and engagement attribute(s) is specified by the
   corresponding advertiser.
10
   In an embodiment the third party referral provider derives
   revenue from the advertiser associated with the digital referral
   presented to the consumer.
15 In an embodiment an amount paid by the advertiser for the
   referral is determined, at least in part, based on a number of
   other advertiser referral objects associated with the same
   identifiable engagement attributes.
20 In an embodiment the third party referral provider is further
   operable to determine a performance of the digital referral
   object and wherein the performance is evaluated when determining
   whether to present the digital referral object to a consumer
   during a subsequent engagement with the third party referral
25 provider.
   In an embodiment the performance is determined by evaluating
   whether the consumer accepted the corresponding offering.
30 In accordance with a still further aspect there is provided
   computer software which, when implemented by a server computer,
   is operable to cause the server computer to carry out the method
   in accordance with the method as described herein.
35 In the context of the present specification the term  'digital
   content' is to be construed in a broad sense and will be

                                     9
   understood to include within its    scope any form of visible
   and/or audible digital content.     Non-limiting examples   include
   digital content found on online sources     (e.g. web pages, mobile
   applications, etc.)   providing publications   (e.g. news websites),
 5 e-commerce listings   (e.g. eBay listings),   articles, pictures,
   videos  (e.g. YouTube, Vimeo, etc.),   audio files   (e.g. digital
   music downloaded through a website),    charts,  and the like.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
10 Features and advantages of the present invention will become
   apparent  from the following description of embodiments thereof,
   by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying
   drawings, in which:
15 Figure 1 is a schematic of a four dimensional advertisement
   model, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention;
   Figure 2 is a basic process   flow for an embodiment of the
20 present  invention;
   Figure 3 is a schematic of a system for implementing an
   embodiment of the present invention;
25 Figure 4 is an example screen shot illustrating engagement
   points for a survey module, in accordance with an embodiment;
   Figure 5 is a detailed process   flow, according to an embodiment
   of the present   invention;
30
   Figure  6 shows an example engagement journey for a user
   transacting on an e-commerce website, in accordance with an
   embodiment;  and

                                    10
   Figure 7 shows an example engagement journey for a user
   transacting with a poll/survey on a publisher website, in
   accordance with an embodiment.
 5 Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
   Embodiments of the invention described herein relate    to methods
   for presenting advertisements to a computer user    (hereafter
   "consumer") while viewing or otherwise interfacing with any form
   of digital content   (provided by a publisher) on their computer
10 device. Herein, the term "interfacing" is to be   construed in a
   broad sense and includes within its scope scenarios where the
   user is actively interfacing with the digital content    (e.g.
   selecting content, inputting data, entering instructions, or
   otherwise actively interacting with the digital content),    as
15 well as scenarios where the user is simply viewing or otherwise
   passively interfacing with the digital content.
   More particularly, and with reference to Figure   1, embodiments
   of the present invention relate to a four dimensional
20 advertising model hosted by an advertisement system 10 that
   includes a suitable computing system and associated
   hardware/software.    The advertising model takes into
   consideration the interests of the publishers   12,  advertisers 14
   and consumers 16,  as will become evident from the following
25 description.
   Key to the four dimensional advertising model is an "engagement
   offer" 18, which term is used herein to refer to any form of
   offer which is either contextually relevant to how the consumer
30 is interfacing with the digital content and/or relevant to one
   or more user attributes of the consumer.    The engagement
   offer 18 is displayed in association with the digital content
   and aims to encourage the user to engage with the offer, which
   according to embodiments described herein involves, for example,
35 the consumer selecting the engagement offer   (e.g. by way of a
   mouse click, touch screen selection or some other suitable offer

                                     11
   selection).   In this  sense, the engagement offer 18 differs from
   traditional digital advertisements in that     its primary function
   is not to sell a particular product or     service, but instead is a
   mechanism for encouraging the consumer to initially engage with
 5 the advertisement system 10   in a positive sense.
   A non-exhaustive list of the different types of engagement
   offers 18  that may be presented to a consumer according to
   embodiments described herein, include:
10
       e  coupons, discounts, vouchers,    credits for goods/services
       e  simulated "scratch and win" games, potentially revealing
          a prize
       e  transaction relevant offers    (e.g. chance to win back ,   or
15        discounts, etc. on related transactions)
       e  surveys and polls   (which typically display results)
       e  opportunities to participate in audience profiling or
          market research
       e  competitions
20     0  sampling  (products)
       e  video images and/or audio content
       "  free games
       e  access to exclusive/deeper/additional publisher content
       e  award points   (e.g. loyalty points,   frequent flyer points,
25        etc.)
       *  cash back offers
   Responsive to the consumer engaging with the engagement offer
   18, they are taken on an "engagement journey" which involves
30 presenting the consumer with one of more advertisements      (paid
   for by the advertisers   14) that are tailored for the consumer
   based, at least in part, on behavioural,     contextual and/or
   demographic attributes determined by the advertising system 10.

                                    12
   Through extensive testing, it has been found that initiating
   engagement with the advertisement system 10 by way of an
   engagement offer results in a more positive and deeper
   engagement with advertisements subsequently presented to the
 5 consumer   (i.e. during the engagement journey) than if those
   advertisements were presented in the traditional search or
   display based manner, as described in the preamble.      In turn,
   the consumer is more likely to continue to engage with the
   advertisement system 10,   thus creating a sustainable advertising
10 revenue module which is of benefit to each of the advertisement
   system 10,   publishers 12 and advertisers 14.
   According to particular embodiments, the engagement offer 18
   does not directly translate into any advertising revenue
15 (indeed, in particular embodiments where the offer relates to a
   prize or the like, the offer may in fact represent an initial
   cost to the advertisement system 10 and/or the other parties
   shown in the four dimensional model of Figure 1).      In contrast,
   the advertisements presented thereafter    (which may be any
20 suitable form of digital advertisement) will typically result in
   advertisement revenue being generated through presentation to
   the consumer, based on any suitable payment scheme agreed by the
   advertisement system 10 and the individual advertisers 14.       It
   will also be apparent that the presentation of the engagement
25 offer to the consumer does not result in any predetermined or
   correlated direct advertising benefit to the particular
   advertisers of the advertisements subsequently presented to the
   consumer.    This is because the engagement offer selected by the
   system 10 is not tied to any of the paid advertisements      (i.e.
30 the engagement offer is selected by the system 10 in
   independence of the paid advertisements).
   Basic Process Flow
   With additional reference to Figure 2, there is shown a basic
35 process flow 20 for engaging with a consumer who is interfacing
   with digital content provided by a publisher 12     (e.g. by way of

                                    13
   a browser, mobile application, or via some other suitable
   digital medium).
   Step Sl involves determining the interfacing context and/or
 5 consumer attribute(s) data, responsive to the occurrence of an
   engagement trigger.    As will be described in more detail in
   subsequent paragraphs, the interfacing context and/or consumer
   attribute(s) are determined from engagement data collected while
   the consumer is interfacing with the digital content.
10
   The engagement trigger may comprise or be supplied by the
   consumer completing a transaction, uploading or downloading a
   file, submitting a post in a forum, entering a competition,
   loading a webpage, or based on any other predefined identifiable
15 consumer response or action.
   At step S2, the engagement data together with any other data
   deemed relevant for the engagement    (e.g. behavioural data,
   demographic data) is evaluated by the advertisement system 10 to
20 generate a tailored engagement journey for the consumer, that
   can include, for example, an initial engagement offer 18,
   followed by one or more advertisements from am advertiser 14.
   At step S3, the engagement offer 18 is presented to the
25 consumer 16.    The engagement offer may, for example, be
   presented via the display on their computing device as text
    (e.g. in-line with the digital content, or overlayed),   in a
   flash banner, by way of audio content and/or video images,
   messaging   (e.g. text message), or via any other suitable
30 presentation means.    The mechanism used to carry the engagement
   offer 18 is herein referred to as an "asset".
   At step S4, responsive to the consumer 16 engaging with the
   engagement offer 18,   the consumer 16 continues on the engagement
35 journey, during which they are presented with the one or more
   advertisements determined in step S2. The advertisements are

                                   14
   presented to the consumer in a sequence of "modules".    The
   modules may, for example, be pop-up banners, forms or the like
   suitable for conveying the advertisement.    It will be understood
   that each of the modules presented to the consumer 16 during the
 5 journey may have different functional and aesthetic variations.
   Example System Configuration
   With reference to Figure 3, there is a shown an example of a
   computing system 100 in which an embodiment of the invention may
10 be implemented.   The computing system 100 comprises a publisher
   system 102 comprising a web server computer 104 hosting a
   website which presents publisher content.
   One or more consumer computer devices   (in this case being in the
15 form of Internet-enabled smartphones 106 or other consumer
   digital device) communicate with the website via a client
   browser 107 resident thereon.   The communication is made over a
   network in the form of a mobile broadband communications
   network 108.   According to embodiments described herein, the
20 website is optimised for a mobile browser.
   A computer readable script 121, hereafter referred to as a
   "widget script", is placed within the publisher content    (in the
   presently described embodiment, being communicated with the HTML
25 page code for the website).   The widget script 121 is executed
   client-side  (i.e. on the client browser) and is operable to
   gather and communicate the engagement data to the advertisement
   system 10,  and thereafter generate and display engagement
   journey objects on a consumer browser 107.
30
   The widget script 121 is further operable to track behavioural
   metrics which are representative of a level/measure of
   engagement for the consumer during an engagement journey.
   According to one, exemplary illustrated embodiment, the
35 behavioural metrics are tracked by API calls generated by the
   widget script 121 and include the following metrics relevant to

                                    15
   each engagement offer 18, asset, advertisement and module
   (hereafter collectively referred to as "engagement objects")
   presented to the consumer during an engagement journey:
 5    0  asset impressions -  a count for each asset which is
         incremented whenever the asset was displayed in the
         browser 107
      e  asset clicks - a count for each asset which is incremented
         whenever the consumer clicks on   (or otherwise selects) the
10       asset;
      e  engagement offer take-ups - a count for each engagement
         offer which is incremented whenever the consumer accepts
         the engagement offer  (e.g. selects a button agreeing to
         take up the offer);
15    0  engagement offer skips/declines - a count for each
         engagement offer which is incremented whenever the
         consumer exits or continues on the engagement journey
         without taking up the engagement offer;
      e  module impressions - a count for each module which is
20       incremented whenever the module is rendered by the widget
         script 121;
      e  module completions - a count for each module which is
         incremented whenever the consumer completes the module
         (e.g. by transitioning to another module or reaching an
25       exit stage);
      e  advertisement impressions - a count for each advertisement
         which is incremented whenever an advertisement is rendered
         into a module by the widget script 121;
      e  advertisement take-ups - a count for each advertisement
30       which is incremented whenever the consumer accepts an
         advertised offer;
      e  request further information -  a count for each
         advertisement which is incremented whenever the consumer
         requests further information about the advertisement
35       before taking up the offer or passing on the offer;

                                     16
      e  advertisement skips   - a count for each advertisement which
         is incremented every time a consumer does not take up an
         offer;
      e  advertisement declines   - a count for each advertisement
 5       which is incremented each time a consumer actively
         declines an advertised offer     (e.g. selects a reject button
         for the displayed advertised offer);
      e  advertisement shares -   a count for each advertisement or
         engagement offer which is incremented each time a consumer
10       shares the offer/advertisement with another person      (e.g.
         through selection of a share icon which, once      selected, is
         operable to send a URL link for a webpage displaying the
         offer/advertisement to the other person by way of a
         sharing or  social media platform/service such as Twitter,
15       Facebook, SMS or the like)
   With additional reference to Figure     4, there is shown a screen
   shot of an example coupon module     400 illustrating engagement
   points  (in this case  comprising a combination of radio buttons
20 and selectable text) that are selectable by a consumer and which
   are recognisable by the widget script 121,      once selected, to
   increment the count for a particular behavioural metric.        As
   shown in Figure  4, an advertised offer 402 is presented by the
   widget script 121 within the coupon module      400.  At this point,
25 the widget script 121 would have already incremented both a
   module impression and an advertisement impression count for the
   selected coupon module   and advertisement.     A selectable "take   up
   offer" radio button 404 is recognised by the widget script       121
   as an acceptance of the advertised offer.       Also displayed are
30 "more info"  and "pass on offer" radio buttons     406, 408 which,
   once selected, are recognised by the widget script      121 for
   incrementing the "further information" and "advertisement
   declines" counts respectively. Skipping to the next module
   through selection of the "skip" radio button 410 is recognised
35 by the widget script   121 for incrementing the "advertisement
   skip" count.   Equally, closing the module by selecting exit

                                   17
   button 412 is also recognised for incrementing the
   "advertisement skip" count.
   The metrics shown above should not be seen as limiting and it
 5 will be understood that any suitable behavioural metric and
   associated engagement point could be implemented, depending only
   on the desired implementation.
   Returning to Figure 3, the advertisement system 10 comprises a
10 server computer 112 hosting an engagement tracking database 114
    (for storing the engagement data and behavioural metrics as
   afore-described) and an engagement objects database 115 storing
   the particular engagement objects, which can include engagement
   offers, assets, advertisements and modules.   Each of the objects
15 in the database 114 are stored in association with one or more
   relevant interfacing contexts and/or consumer user attributes.
   The server computer 112 additionally implements an engagement
   engine 116 and ranking engine 118 which are communicable with
   the respective databases 114 and 115 for dynamically generating
20 consumer engagement journeys, as will be described in more
   detail below.
   Engagement and Tracking Metrics
   As mentioned above, the widget script 121 is operable to gather
25 engagement data and track behavioural metrics.   A particular
   embodiment illustrating this operation will now be described in
   more detail with reference to process flow diagram of Figure 5.
   According to the embodiment shown in Figure 5, the first
30 step Sla involves identifying the consumer 16.   More
   particularly, each time the consumer accesses the publisher
   website, the widget script 121 is invoked to retrieve a unique
   identifier for the consumer.
35 According to the illustrated example, the unique identifier is
   created when the consumer 16 first engages with the

                                    18
   advertisement system 10 and is held by a cookie in the
   consumer's  client browser 107.   The unique identifier is used by
   the widget script 121 for recording the behavioural metrics
   generated while completing an engagement journey    (which metrics
 5 are subsequently communicated to the engagement engine 116    for
   storing in the tracking database 114,   in association with the
   unique identifier for the consumer).
   In instances where the widget script 121   is unable to locate a
10 unique consumer identifier, the engagement engine 116 may
   instruct the widget script to display a signup module    (selected
   from the objects database  115)  for the purpose of gathering user
   attribute data that may be used to identify the consumer 16.      In
   a particular embodiment, the signup module may ask the consumer
15 to provide an e-mail address which, if matched against a
   consumer e-mail address stored in the tracking database    114,
   overrides any match determined when looking up the consumer via
   the unique identifier in their cookie.
20 In an alternative embodiment, the publisher system 102 may store
   user attribute data for the consumer which can be passed
   directly to the widget script 121 upon request, via an API call.
   Such user attribute data may, for example,   comprise personal
   and/or demographic information entered by the consumer when
25 registering with the publisher system 102,   a history of products
   purchased by the consumer, pages visited by the consumer, among
   others.
   At  step S2a, the widget script  121 determines engagement data
30 representative of the interfacing context.    In a particular
   embodiment, the engagement data determined by the widget
   script 121  comprises at least one of the following:   a URL for
   the website;  a referring URL;  screen content obtained through
   capturing the HTML of a current page for particular keywords and
35 content  (also known in the industry as "scraping");   through API
    (application programming interface) parameters passed directly

                                     19
   to the widget script  121 by the publisher 102;       a current
   location of the consumer;   a time   at the current location; a type
   of network over which the consumer is making the connection
    (e.g. wi-fi hotspot, cellular network, etc.);       and/or any other
 5 data that can be determined in order to glean an understanding
   of how the consumer is interfacing with the digital content.
   By way of example, where the consumer      is interfacing with an e
   commerce website, the engagement data determined by the widget
10 script 121 may include data representative one or more
   attributes relating to a current transaction        (e.g. type, cost,
   location of goods/services) that     the consumer has made or in the
   process of making, collected through scraping the page for
   content.   As another example,  the consumer may be      reading an
15 article or other content displayed on a page of the website.        In
   this case, the engagement data may be      representative of an
   attribute of the content   (e.g. type of content, where the
   content is being displayed, an author of the content, etc.),
   which is provided by the publisher API       (or through any one of
20 the other techniques described above).
   Generating Engagement Journeys
   Still with reference to Figure   5, at step S3 the engagement
   engine 116 determines an engagement trigger from the engagement
25 data communicated from the widget script       121.
   At  step S4a, responsive to determining the engagement trigger,
   the engagement engine 116 retrieves all behavioural metrics
   recorded for that consumer from the tracking database 114.
30 Depending on the desired implementation, the engagement
   engine 116 may additionally or alternatively retrieve
   behavioural metrics  in aggregated form for other consumers who
   have the same or like demographic      (e.g. age, gender, etc.).    In
   a particular embodiment, the engagement engine 116 may limit the
35 behavioural metrics  to be retrieved to     some desired period of
   time  (e.g. within the last 3 months).

                                   20
   At step S5a, the engagement engine 116 passes the retrieved
   behavioural metrics as well as the contextually relevant
   engagement data gathered by the widget script 121 to the ranking
 5 engine 118.   The ranking engine 118 in turn retrieves objects
   from the engagement object database 115 that match    (i.e. are
   stored in association with) an interfacing context and/or
   consumer attribute(s) derived from the engagement data provided
   to the ranking engine 118.
10
   At step S6a, the ranking engine 118 filters the retrieved
   behavioural metrics such that only those metrics relevant to the
   retrieved objects are kept for evaluation.
15 At step S7a, the ranking engine 118 implements a ranking
   algorithm which ranks the retrieved objects by a combination of
   an engagement score and revenue score   (where applicable),  as
   will now be described.
20 As its name suggests, the engagement score is associated with
   how well the consumer engages with the object and is determined
   based on the behavioural metrics recorded for that object.
   According to the illustrated embodiment, each type of
   behavioural metric is assigned a particular positive or negative
25 score per recorded count, such that each consumer interaction
   with that object will result in a positive or negative point
   score.  An example metric score table is shown below in Table 1,
   noting that the example scoring regime should not be seen as
   limiting and that any suitable scoring regime could be
30 implemented for the recorded metrics.
    Metric Type                       Score Per Count
    Asset Impressions                 +1
    Asset Clicks                      +2
    Engagement Offer Take-Ups         +2

                                    21
    Engagement Offer                   -2
    Skips/Declines
    Module Impressions                 +1
    Module Completions                 +2
    Advertisement Impressions          +1
    Further Information                +1
    Advertisement Take-Ups             +2
    Advertisement Skips                -1
    Advertisement Declines             -2
    Engagement Offer/Advertisement     +1
    Shares
                                 Table 1
   The revenue score is determined by the ranking engine 118 by
   evaluating how much revenue resulted through presentation of the
 5 engagement objects to consumers.     In a particular embodiment
   this is achieved by evaluating the revenue resulting from offer
   take-ups which may, for example, be calculated by multiplying
   the take-up count by the commission or fixed fee paid by the
   advertiser 14,  though it will be understood any measure of
10 revenue could equally be utilised for determining revenue
   depending only on the desired implementation.     Once the
   engagement and revenue scores have been determined, the ranking
   engine 118 sums or otherwise combines the two scores to produce
   a combined engagement and revenue score and at step S8a outputs
15 a listing of the highest ranking objects    (based on their
   combined scores) to the engagement engine 116. It will be
   understood that any combination of engagement score and revenue
   score may be evaluated by the ranking engine and need not simply
   be the sum of the two scores.    For example, the ranking
20 algorithm implemented by the ranking engine 118 may apply a
   greater weighting to the determined engagement score than for
   the revenue score, so as to enable selection of engagement
   objects that are more likely to keep a consumer engaged during
   an engagement journey, in turn resulting in greater
25 sustainability of the model.   In this regard, the ranking

                                    22
   engine 118 may be configured to dynamically adjust the
   weightings responsive to determining that levels of consumer
   engagement have fallen below a predefined threshold.      This may
   be applied on an individual basis    (i.e. by an evaluation of the
 5 metrics for a particular consumer) or across the consumer base
   as a whole   (i.e. by an evaluation of the aggregated metrics).
   In a particular object retrieved at step S5a does not have any
   behavioural metrics recorded in association therewith, then the
10 selection of this object for inclusion in the engagement journey
   can be randomised.
   At step S9a the engagement engine 116 selects the highest
   ranking engagement objects for inclusion in the engagement
15 journey.   According to embodiments described herein, each
   engagement journey consists of one engagement offer     (i.e.
   displayed by way of an asset) followed by a number of modules
   and advertisements which is determined based on the determined
   interfacing context and/or consumer attribute (s).    For example,
20 an interfacing context representative of a consumer accessing an
   e-commerce website on their mobile phone may include a lesser
   number of modules/advertisements than for a consumer who is
   reading an article on a desktop computer.     It will be
   appreciated that any number of different module/asset/offer
25 configuration rules may be implemented utilising the gathered
   engagement data and behavioural data, depending only on the
   desired implementation.
   At step S10a, the engagement engine 118 instructs the widget
30 script 121 to present the engagement journey to the consumer as
   afore-described.
   Example Engagement Journeys
   Figure 6 shows four example screen wireframes which serve to
35 illustrate an engagement journey 600,    in this case based on a
   consumer interfacing with an e-commerce website. It will be

                                    23
   understood that the engagement objects shown in Figure 6 are
   only examples of the different engagement objects that might be
   selected by the engagement engine 116 for inclusion in a
   particular journey.
 5
   Wireframe 610 shows a confirmation screen which is presented to
   the consumer in a final stage of a transaction placed with the
   e-commerce website.   As illustrated, the confirmation screen
   includes a transaction confirmation message 612 confirming that
10 the consumer's transaction was successful.     Immediately below
   the transaction confirmation message 612 is an engagement
   offer 614 selected from the objects database 115. In this
   example, the engagement offer 614 is presented in an asset being
   in the form of an inline text box 615.    It will be understood
15 that that other assets may equally be used to present the
   engagement offer  (e.g. by way of a pop-up message, etc.)   and the
   actual placement of the asset may vary depending on the desired
   implementation. Various other items of digital content are also
   displayed on the confirmation screen, including a publisher
20 logo 616, navigation bar 618 and any relevant publisher
   content 619.
   By way of example, the e-commerce website may be an online
   ticket sales website and the consumer may have just completed a
25 ticket purchase for their favourite band.     In this case, the
   engagement data collected by the widget script 121 may, for
   example, comprise details of the transaction (e.g. band name,
   ticket price, etc.) which are derived from the website HTML
   code.  The resultant engagement offer may, for example, be the
30 chance to win VIP backstage passes to the event.
   Responsive to the consumer engaging with the offer by clicking
   in the box 615, the widget script 121 is instructed to display a
   module in the form of a pop-up sign up module 622 which overlays
35 the confirmation screen   (see wireframe 620).   In this case, the
   sign up module 622 prompts the consumer to enter the necessary

                                    24
   details for signing up for the engagement offer. Various fields
   in the sign-up module 622 may be pre-populated by the widget
   script 121 using details entered by the consumer while
   completing the transaction on the e-commerce website    (e.g. name,
 5 address, date of birth, etc.).   Using the example from above, the
   sign up module 622 may prompt the consumer to confirm their
   personal details for entering the VIP backstage pass promotion.
   After having completed the sign up module 622, the widget
10 script 121 is instructed to display a coupon pop-up module 632
   including one or more coupon advertisements selected from the
   engagement objects database 115   (see wireframe 630).   For
   example, the selected coupons may provide discounts on travel
   related services provided by a selection of the advertisers 14.
15
   Wireframe 640 depicts a final module for the engagement journey
   in the form of a survey module 642 which displays one or more
   surveys that the consumer has the option of completing.      For
   example, the survey module 642 may display a political survey
20 with the consumer's answers captured by the widget script 121
   and communicated back to the engagement engine 116 for storing
   in the engagement behavioural database 114.    Although not
   illustrated in the widget screens of Figure 6, each of the
   modules displayed by the widget script 121 include an option for
25 the consumer to skip that module, which is recorded by the
   widget scrip 121 for increment the associated behavioural
   metric.
   With reference to Figure 7, there is illustrated another example
30 engagement journey.  In this example, the consumer is completing
   a poll on a news website which asks the consumer to select their
   favourite travel destination   (e.g. by way of selectable radio
   buttons corresponding to different travel destinations).      Screen
   wireframe 710 shows an example screen layout for the publisher
35 site whereby the poll 712 is positioned between related

                                   25
   publisher content 719.   Again, a logo 716 and navigation bar 718
   are also displayed.
   Responsive to the consumer responding to the poll   (i.e. by
 5 selecting one of the radio buttons),  the widget script 121 is
   triggered to display an engagement offer 714 in an inline text
   box 715 immediately below the results of the poll   (see wireframe
   720).  Using the example from wireframe 710, the engagement
   offer might be the chance to win free flights.
10
   Responsive to the consumer clicking the box 715, the widget
   script 121 is programmed to display a sign-up module 732 for
   confirming the consumer details to enter the promotion, as shown
   in wireframe 730.
15
   Wireframe 740 depicts the final screen presented to the consumer
   as part of the engagement journey, whereby they are presented
   with a market research module 742 asking a series of market
   research questions.
20
   From the above examples, it can be seen that not all modules
   presented to a consumer during the journey need include explicit
   advertising content.   For example, where only a small or no
   behavioural or other consumer attribute data is recorded for the
25 consumer, the engagement engine 116 may present a survey    (as
   depicted in wireframe 740) or the like in one of the modules
   seeking further information about the user, which may then be
   used to dynamically determine the advertising content of
   subsequent modules to be presented in an engagement journey.
30
   Further, according to some embodiments, dependent on a consumer
   response to one or more modules, the number and or advertising
   content or otherwise of subsequent modules may be dynamically
   modified by the engagement engine 116 so as to optimise the
35 relevance of the engagement journey.   For example, where the
   consumer has skipped three modules in a row, the engagement

                                    26
   engine 116 may be programmed to determine that the
   advertisements presented in those modules are not of any value
   to the consumer   (even though they may have achieved high
   engagement and revenue scores from past engagements).     As such,
 5 the engagement engine 116 may subsequently select other
   advertisements for presenting in subsequent module that are
   selected based on one or more different attributes.
   In a particular embodiment, the advertisement system 10 may be
10 configured to serve engagement offers and advertisements to
   consumers that are interacting with digital content by way of a
   native mobile application. In a particular embodiment, this is
   achieved by placing the widget script 121 on an i-frame embedded
   into the mobile application.    It will be understood that other
15 techniques for implementing the data-gatherer script may also be
   utilised and are within the purview of the skilled person.
   In an alternative embodiment to that described above, rather
   than evaluating context data and/or user consumer attribute data
20 for determining which engagement offers to present, the
   advertisement system   (and more particularly the ranking
   engine 118) may instead base the selection on a historical
   performance of the engagement offers stored in the objects
   database 115.   In a particular embodiment, the historical
25 performance may be measured in much the same manner as for the
   engagement score, but focused only on those metrics relating to
   the engagement offer 18.    For example, the historical
   performance may be calculated by summing the engagement offer
   take-ups and engagement offer skips/declines count.     The ranking
30 engine 118 may additionally apply a filter when determining the
   performance score such that only those scores that have recorded
   within some predefined time period are evaluated to keep up to
   date with current trends.
35

                                   27
   Further Detail of System Configuration
   The server computer 112 on which the advertisement system 10 is
   implemented can be any form of suitable server computer that is
   capable of communicating with the consumer devices 106.    The
 5 server 112 may include typical web server hardware including a
   processor, motherboard, memory, hard disk and a power supply.
   The server also includes an operating system which co-operates
   with the hardware to provide an environment in which software
   applications can be executed.   In this regard, the hard disk of
10 the server is loaded with a processing module which, under the
   control of the processor, is operable to implement the various
   afore-described engagement and ranking engines 116, 118 for
   determining engagement offers and advertisements.
15 According to the illustrated embodiment, the mobile devices are
   Internet-enabled smartphones.   The smartphones are equipped with
   the necessary hardware and software to communicate with the web
   service.   The smartphone and web service communicate over a
   network which, in this case, is a mobile broadband network 108.
20 Although not illustrated in Figure 1, the network 108 includes
   standard network elements including a base station controller,
   home location register, mobile switching centre, message centre,
   equipment identity register, and message gateway   (although it
   will be appreciated that any suitable network connection may be
25 utilised including private/public wireless networks, etc.).
   It will be appreciated that the user computer device 106 could
   be any suitable form of network-enabled computing device.    For
   example, the user computer device may be a general purpose
30 computer or a special purpose device including a smart phone    (as
   afore-described), tablet, or the like.   Details of such devices
    (e.g. processor, memory, displays, data storage devices) are
   omitted for the sake of clarity.
35 It will be appreciated that a distinct advantage arising through
   use of a third party advertisement system 10   (as described

                                   28
   above) is the ability to provide a platform which allows
   multiple advertisers 14 to connect to multiple end users 16
   across a range of different subscribing publisher sites 12.
   Thus, the advertising system 10 may provide advertisers 14 with
 5 a broad ranging and immediate set of publisher sites 12 with
   whom they can partner to display their advertisements.   Further,
   the ability to inter-connect stakeholders in this manner allows
   the advertising system 10 to provide a rich and deep pool of
   advertising content that can be drawn on to better match
10 individual consumers with individual advertisers, in turn
   increasing the likelihood of a positive engagement.   It will
   also be appreciated that this rich and deep pool addresses the
   variability in supply and demand of advertising on publisher
   sites.
15
   Yet another advantage arising through such an implementation is
   the ability to maintain a database storing behavioural metrics
   for consumers across a range of different publisher sites.
   Thus, even if a consumer has not previously accessed one of the
20 subscribing publisher sites, the advertisement system 10 may
   still be able to provide tailored advertising to that consumer
   when visiting the new publisher site based on behaviour metrics
   recorded for that consumer based on past engagements while
   visiting other subscribing publisher sites.   Thus, it can be
25 seen that engagement model as described herein advantageously
   meets the needs of all stakeholders, and not just a subset
   thereof  (as is the case for conventional methods).
   DIGITAL REFERRAL MAREKTING
30 In addition to increasing the efficacy of advertiser messages
   (i.e. through increased consumer engagement),  a further
   advantage arising through implementation of the third party
   advertisement system 10 is the ability to provide a digital form
   of "word of mouth advertising" whereby advertisers may
35 advantageously be provided with instant qualified referrals that

                                   29
   are determined to be of interest to the consumer across any of
   the subscribing publisher sites 12.
   Digital referrals can be implemented by the advertising
 5 system 10 in a number of ways depending on the goals of the
   advertising business  (hereafter "advertiser"),  as will now be
   described.  For each of the example embodiments described below,
   the advertiser offers will broadly be referred to as "digital
   referral objects" and the third party advertisement system 10
10 referred to as a "third party referral provider".    It follows
   that the selection, presentation and acceptance of the digital
   referral objects is carried out in the same manner as for the
   advertiser offers, previously described with reference to
   Figures 1 to 7.  According to each of the embodiments described
15 below, the advertiser has the ability to target particular
   customers through specifying particular engagement/attribute
   data they wish to associate with their digital referral object
   (i.e. as previously described with reference to figure 3).
20 Retail Referral Campaign
   This particular embodiment may be advantageous for advertisers
   in the retail space that use offers, sales, promotions and other
   retail related mechanisms for driving sales.    Accordingly, in
   this particular embodiment the digital referral objects take the
25 form of retail related advertising offers   (e.g. coupons,
   promotional codes, and the like) that are presented to the
   consumer on a post-transactional page of the subscribing
   publisher site, effectively acting as a "thank you" for the
   purchase made or action taken by the consumer.
30
   Sales Referral Campaign
   This particular embodiment may be advantageous for advertisers
   with outbound sales capabilities that want potential customers
   'opting in' to receive a person-to-person sales interaction
35 (e.g. via an outbound call, e-mail, etc.).    Accordingly, in this
   particular embodiment, the digital referral object takes the

                                   30
   form of an offer to receive further information from the
   advertiser.   The offer may be accompanied by the chance to win a
   prize, or some other enticement provided by the advertiser.
   Acceptance of the offer may, for example, require the consumer
 5 to enter contact information which is then recorded and passed
   on to the advertiser for making the contact   (i.e. by the widget
   script 121).
   Post acceptance of the advertising offer, the consumer may be
10 contacted by the publisher 12 endorsing the advertiser.     This
   may increase the likelihood of the consumer completing the offer
   (i.e. nurturing a consumer into a customer),   particularly if
   there is some good will or trust between the consumer and
   publisher 12.   Again, this may be facilitated by way of the
15 widget script 121 which passes the contact information to the
   publisher 12 for subsequent contact.   In a particular
   embodiment, the contact from the publisher 12 may be an e-mail
   to the consumer increasing awareness and understanding,
   preparing them for advertiser follow up and helping to improve
20 call-back conversion.   It will be understood that this post
   acceptance publisher endorsement may be implemented for any of
   the digital referral implementations described herein.
   Customer Referral Campaign
25 This particular embodiment may be advantageous for advertisers
   who wish to grow their business by referring consumers to "opt
   in" to receive ongoing advertiser communications.     For example,
   advertisers with ongoing sale activity via e-mail    (e.g.
   businesses in retail or travel industry) may use the customer
30 referral mechanism to build a customer e-mail database for
   subsequent e-mail campaigns.   Accordingly, in this particular
   embodiment, the digital referral object takes the form of an
   offer to receive ongoing communications from the advertiser.
   The offer may be accompanied by the chance to win a prize, or
35 some other enticement provided by the advertiser.     Acceptance of
   the offer may, for example, require the consumer to enter

                                     31
   contact information which is then recorded and passed on to the
   advertiser for making the contact      (i.e. by the widget script
   121).
 5 Traffic Referral Campaign
   This particular embodiment is tailored for advertisers looking
   to refer qualified consumers directly to their website, in turn
   exposing the consumer to the advertiser's content and sales
   processes.   Traffic referrals may be particularly suited for
10 businesses who wish to have the consumer transact      on their own
   website with products and services suited to immediate sales.
   Accordingly, in this particular embodiment, the digital referral
   object takes the form of an offer to receive some particular
   offering from the advertiser that results in the consumer being
15 directed to their website.    This   is achieved by the widget
   scrip  121 that recognises acceptance of the offer and
   subsequently re-directs the consumer's browser to a desired
   landing page   (e.g. product-specific landing page) of the
   website.
20
   Social Referral Campaign
   This particular embodiment is tailored for advertisers looking
   to increase their social media profile by building an audience,
   establishing a social community and a forum of ongoing
25 communications.    Social referrals are particularly suited for
   advertisers without   a direct interface with their customers,
   such as fast moving consumer goods and manufacturers of
   electronics/appliances.    Accordingly, in this particular
   embodiment, the digital referral     object takes the form of an
30 invite to "like"   or otherwise endorse an advertiser brand,
   product or  service in exchange for some offer determined to be
   of interest to the consumer    (e.g. an "instant win" prize, entry
   into a prize  draw, access to member only coupons, discounts,
   etc.).   The widget  script 121 is programmed to recognise
35 acceptance of the offer and in turn direct the user to the
   relevant  social media website   for completing the endorsement.

                                   32
   In a particular embodiment the aforementioned referral objects
   are presented to the consumer once they have engaged with the
   advertising system 10  (i.e. through acceptance of an engagement
 5 offer).  In an alternative embodiment, the consumer may be
   presented with the referral objects without having been exposed
   to an engagement offer, e.g. on a post-transaction page of a
   publisher website, or at some other stage while accessing a
   publisher site.
10
   It will be understood that the advertising system 10 may
   implement various techniques for deriving advertising from the
   above digital referral campaigns.   For example, the campaigns
   may be charged by cost per referral   (CPR), with the rate varying
15 depending on the appeal of the advertiser offer and demand by
   other advertisers for the same target customer.
   While the invention has been described with reference to the
   present embodiment, it will be understood by those skilled in
20 the art that alterations, changes and improvements may be made
   and equivalents may be substituted for the elements thereof and
   steps thereof without departing from the scope of the invention.
   In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt the
   invention to a particular situation or material to the teachings
25 of the invention without departing from the central scope
   thereof.  Such alterations, changes, modifications and
   improvements, though not expressly described above, are
   nevertheless intended and implied to be within the scope and
   spirit of the invention.   Therefore, it is intended that the
30 invention not be limited to the particular embodiment described
   herein and will include all embodiments falling within the scope
   of the independent claims.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of
35 the invention, except where the context requires otherwise due
   to express language or necessary implication, the word

                                  33
  "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
  used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the
  stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
  further features in various embodiments of the invention.
5

                                   34
   THE CLAIMS  DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.     A computer implemented method for providing digital
   referrals, the method comprising:
 5        maintaining a store of digital referral objects, each
   digital referral object associated with an advertiser for
   referral to a consumer;
          facilitating a consumer engagement with a third party
   referral provider while the consumer is accessing digital
10 content on a subscribing publisher site; and
          once the consumer has engaged with the third party
   referral provider, referring one or more of the advertisers to
   the consumer through presentation of an associated digital
   referral object.
15
   2.     A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the
   engagement is facilitated by way of an engagement offer
   presented to the consumer while the consumer is interfacing with
   the subscribing publisher site.
20
   3.     A method in accordance with claim 2, wherein the
   engagement offer is an offering determined to be of interest to
   the consumer based on one or more of an interfacing context and
   consumer demographic.
25
   4.     A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the
   presentation of the engagement offer to the consumer provides no
   direct advertising benefit to the advertisers referred to the
   consumer post engagement.
30
   5.     A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein a plurality of different publishers subscribe to
   the third party referral provider such that the consumer can
   engage with the third party referral provider while accessing
35 any one of the different publisher sites.

                                   35
   6.     A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the digital referral object comprises an
   offering related to goods and/or services provided by the
   advertiser.
 5
   7.     A method in accordance with claim 6, further comprising
   causing a communication to be sent from the subscribing
   publisher to the consumer endorsing the advertiser associated
   with the presented digital referral object after the consumer
10 has accepted the corresponding offering.
   8.     A method in accordance with claims 6 or 7, further
   comprising identifying one or more attributes of the engagement
   and wherein each of the digital referral objects are associated
15 with one or more identifiable engagement attributes.
   9.     A method in accordance with claim 8, further comprising
   selecting the digital referral object for presenting to the
   consumer based on an association with the identified engagement
20 attribute (s).
   10.    A method in accordance with claim 8 or 9, wherein the
   engagement attributes are associated with identifiable consumer
   attributes selected from the following: consumer age, consumer
25 gender, consumer location.
   11.    A method in accordance with claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein the
   engagement attributes are associated with identifiable
   interfacing context parameters, including:  time that the
30 consumer is interfacing with the digital content, digital
   content type.
   12.    A method in accordance with any of claims 8 to 11,
   wherein the association between the digital referral object and
35 engagement attribute(s) is specified by the corresponding
   advertiser.

                                   36
   13.    A method in accordance with any one of claims 8 to 12,
   further comprising deriving revenue from the advertiser
   associated with the digital referral presented to the consumer.
 5
   14.    A method in accordance with claim 13, wherein the third
   party referral provider derives revenue from an advertiser
   responsive to the consumer indicating that they are interested
   offering associated with the digital referral object.
10
   15.    A method in accordance with claim 13 or 14, wherein an
   amount paid by the advertiser for the referral is determined, at
   least in part, based on a number of other advertiser referral
   objects associated with the same identifiable engagement
15 attributes.
   16.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, further comprising determining a performance of the
   digital referral object and wherein the performance is evaluated
20 when determining whether to present the digital referral object
   to a consumer during a subsequent engagement with the third
   party referral provider.
   17.    A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein the
25 performance is determined by evaluating whether the consumer
   accepted an offering associated with the digital referral
   object.
   18.    A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the offering
30 is to find out more about goods and/or services provided by the
   advertiser and wherein following acceptance of the offer, the
   consumer is contacted by the advertiser.
   19.    A method in accordance with claim 18, further comprising
35 the third party referral provider providing contact details of
   the consumer to the advertiser for making the contact.

                                   37
   20.    A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the offering
   is to receive ongoing communications from the advertiser and
   wherein following an acceptance of the offer, the consumer is
 5 automatically added to a mailing list for receiving on-going
   communications from the advertiser.
   21.    A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the offering
   is a retail related offering for goods and/or services sold by
10 the advertiser selected from the group comprising: discounts,
   coupons, loyalty points, entry into a prize draw and free
   membership.
   22.    A method in accordance with claim 21, wherein following
15 an acceptance of the retail related offering the consumer is
   directed to a website for conducting an e-commerce transaction
   to complete the retail related offering.
   23.    A method in accordance with any one of claims 21 or 22,
20 wherein in order to accept the offering the consumer is required
   to endorse the advertiser through a social media channel.
   24.    A computer system for providing digital advertiser
   referrals, the system comprising:
25        a third party referral provider operable to maintain a
   store of digital referral objects, each digital referral object
   associated with an advertiser for referral to a consumer, the
   third party referral provider being further operable to engage
   with a consumer while the consumer is accessing digital content
30 on a publisher site subscribing to the third party referral
   provider by way of a computer presentation interface, such that
   once the consumer has engaged with the third party referral
   provider, the third party referral provider is operable to refer
   one or more of the advertisers to the consumer through
35 presentation of an associated digital referral object on the
   presentation interface.

                                   38
   25.    A computer system in accordance with claim 24, wherein
   the engagement is facilitated by way of an engagement offer
   presented to the consumer while the consumer is interfacing with
 5 the subscribing publisher site.
   26.    A computer system in accordance with claim 25, wherein
   the engagement offer is determined to be of interest to the
   consumer based on one or more of an interfacing context and
10 consumer demographic determined by the third party referral
   provider.
   27.    A computer system in accordance with claim 26, wherein
   the presentation of the engagement offer to the consumer
15 provides no direct advertising benefit to the advertisers
   referred to the consumer post engagement.
   28.    A computer system in accordance with any one of claims 25
   to 27, wherein the subscribing publisher site is a website and
20 wherein the engagement object is presented to the consumer by
   way of script which is communicated with computer code delivered
   to the presentation interface by the subscribing publisher site
   for rendering the digital content.
25 29.    A computer system in accordance with any one of claims 24
   to 28, wherein a plurality of different publisher sites
   subscribe to the third party referral provider such that the
   consumer can engage with the third party referral provider while
   accessing any one of the different publisher sites.
30
   30.    A computer system in accordance with any one of claims 24
   to 29, wherein the digital referral object comprises an offering
   related to goods and/or services provided by the advertiser.
35 31.    A computer system in accordance with claim 30, wherein
   the third party referral provider is further operable to

                                   39
   facilitate a communication from the subscribing publisher site
   to the consumer endorsing the advertiser responsive to the
   consumer accepting the good and/or services related offering.
 5 32.    A computer system in accordance with claims 30 or   31,
   wherein the third party referral provider is further operable to
   identify one or more attributes of the engagement and wherein
   each of the digital referral objects maintained by the third
   party referral provider are associated with one or more
10 identifiable engagement attributes.
   33.    A computer system in accordance with claim 32, wherein
   the third party referral provider is operable to  select the
   digital referral object for presenting to the consumer based on
15 an association with the identified engagement attribute (s).
   34.    A computer system in accordance with claim 32 or 33,
   wherein the engagement attributes are associated with
   identifiable consumer attributes selected from the following:
20 consumer age, consumer gender, consumer location.
   35.    A computer system in accordance with claim 32,  33 or 34,
   wherein the engagement attributes are associated with
   identifiable interfacing context parameters, including:   a time
25 that the consumer  is interfacing with the digital content,
   nature of the digital content.
   36.    A computer system in accordance with any one of claims 32
   to 35, wherein the association between the digital referral
30 object and engagement attribute(s) is specified by the
   corresponding advertiser.
   37.    A computer system in accordance with any one of claims 32
   to 36, wherein the third party referral provider derives revenue
35 from the advertiser associated with the digital referral
   presented to the consumer.

                                    40
   38.    A computer system in accordance with claim 37, wherein an
   amount paid by the advertiser for the referral is determined, at
   least in part, based on a number of other advertiser referral
 5 objects associated with the same identifiable engagement
   attributes.
   39.    A computer system in accordance with claim 24 to 38,
   wherein the third party referral provider is further operable to
10 determine a performance of the digital referral object and
   wherein the performance is evaluated when determining whether to
   present the digital referral object to a consumer during a
   subsequent engagement with the third party referral provider.
15 40.    A computer system in accordance with claim 39, wherein
   the performance is determined by evaluating whether the consumer
   accepted the corresponding offering.
   41.    A computer program comprising one or more instructions
20 which, when implemented by a computer system cause the computer
   system to implement the method in accordance with any one of
   claims 1 to 23.
   42.    A computer implemented method for presenting advertising
25 to a computer user interfacing with digital content via a
   presentation interface, the method comprising the steps of:
         determining one or more of   (a) context data representative
   of how the computer user is interfacing with the digital content
   and  (b) user attribute data representative of one or more
30 attributes of the computer user;
          selecting an engagement offer from a pool of different
   engagement offers based, at least in part, on the determined
   context data and/or user attribute data;
         presenting the selected engagement offer to the computer
35 user; and

                                     41
         responsive to the computer user accepting the engagement
   offer, presenting the computer user with one or more digital
   advertisements.
 5 43.    A computer system for presenting advertising to a
   computer user interfacing with digital content via a
   presentation interface, the system comprising:
         a user computer implementing the presentation interface;
         a server processing module connected to the user computer
10       and operable to:
                communicate with the presentation interface to
         determine one or more of   (a) context data representative
         of how the computer user is interfacing with the digital
         content and  (b) user attribute data representative of one
15       or more attributes of the computer user;
                select an engagement offer from a pool of different
         engagement offers based, at least in part, on the
         determined context data and/or user attribute data;
                facilitate presentation of the selected engagement
20       offer to the user computer; and
                responsive to the computer user accepting the
         engagement offer, facilitate presentation of one or more
         digital advertisements to the user computer.
25 44.    A computer implemented method for presenting advertising
   by a third party advertising system to a computer user
   interfacing with digital content on a subscribing publisher
   site, the method comprising the steps of:
          determining a historical performance of one or more of
30 engagement offers that have been previously presented to the
   computer user and/or another computer user while accessing
   digital content on the subscribing publisher site and/or another
   publisher site subscribing to the third party advertising
   system;

                                   42
          selecting the engagement offer that achieved the best
   historical performance for presenting to the computer user while
   interfacing with the digital content; and
         responsive to the computer user accepting the engagement
 5 offer, presenting the computer user with one or more digital
   advertisements.
   45.    A computer implemented method for presenting advertising
   to computer users while interfacing with digital content
10 provided by one of a plurality of different publisher sites
   subscribing to a third party advertising system, the third party
   advertising system being operable to:
          maintain a database of digital advertisements; and
          present one or more of the digital advertisements to a
15 computer user responsive to determining an engagement trigger
   resulting from the computer user interfacing with digital
   content provided by one of the plurality of subscribing
   publisher sites.
20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$&       $       $
%
         !
     "
     #

                         <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
-   $#
          )      *
                               ,
           + "
                                               &
         / 0 *
                     %   ! .       $#

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                       <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
          2!             .         !                         $
                                                     "
                                                             $
                                       "
               +             !             . .               $
                *                                "
                                                                        ,
               $ !           . .            *
!                                                            $4
                                       "
                     !             "            #
     "                                                       $
          1                                 "            #
    0 .
                                            0

  <removed-apn> <removed-date>
  &
&

    <removed-apn> <removed-date>
    &
  &
,

