ABSTRACT
          Suture constructs and methods are provided for securing soft tissue to bone. One
exemplary embodiment of a construct includes a first limb, a second limb, a coaxial region,
and a collapsible snare defined by the first and second limbs. The coaxial region can be
formed by a portion of the second limb being disposed in a volume of the first limb, which
allows for a low profile construct that is useful in various soft tissue repair procedures.
The construct can be configured to be disposed in tissue to draw the tissue toward bone,
and the coaxial region can be deconstructed so that the first and second limbs can be used
to help secure the desired location of the tissue with respect to the bone. Various features
of the construct and methods for using the same in a surgical procedure are also provided.

             1/3
          FIG. IA
          Itoa
i2,FI         .I
                  40
      4-4

                                                 1
SURGICAL CONSTRUCTS AND METHODS FOR SECURING TISSUE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           The present disclosure relates to surgical constructs and methods for
securing soft tissue to bone, and more particularly relates to surgical constructs having
reduced profiles for use in securing soft tissue while minimizing or eliminating the tying of
knots to tension and secure the tissue.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           A common injury, especially among athletes and people of advancing age,
is the complete or partial detachment of tendons, ligaments, or other soft tissues from bone.
Tissue detachment may occur during a fall, by overexertion, or for a variety of other
reasons. Surgical intervention is often needed, particularly when tissue is completely
detached from its associated bone. Currently available devices for tissue attachment
include screws, staples, suture anchors, and tacks. Currently available devices for patients
of advancing age can be particularly insufficient due to soft and weak bones leading to
inadequate fixation between the anchor and bones and the anchors and filaments with
which the anchors are coupled.
[0003]           Repair constructs made from one or more surgical filaments are typically
used in soft tissue repair procedures to secure the tissue in a desired location. The repair
constructs are typically disposed through one or more portions of the tissue to be repaired,
which can cause trauma to the tissue, and are often coupled to anchors disposed in bone to
which the tissue is to be approximated. While devices and techniques have been
developed to help minimize trauma associated with passing repair constructs through
tissue, there is still room for further improvement. For example, some repair constructs
typically include a sleeve disposed around at least a portion of the limbs of filament of the
construct. The sleeve can assist in minimizing trauma to tissue, and also in managing the
limbs of suture while the construct is being disposed through tissue. However, the sleeve
still adds extra size and cost to the construct. Additionally, there remains a desire to
minimize the number of knots used in conjunction with the repair construct when

                                                 2
performing soft tissue repair procedures. A variety of different knots, such as sliding
knots, can be used to help draw and secure soft tissue with respect to bone. Although the
tying of knots at a surgical site is common, in some instances knots can have a tendency to
slip, which in turn can cause a loss of tension between the tissue and bone. This drawback
is sometimes referred to as a loss of "loop security." In addition to this "loop security"
issue, conventional knots typically have an overall size that can be obstructive or intrusive,
especially in tight joints, which may damage cartilage or other tissue by abrasion with the
knot.
[0004]          It is therefore desirable to provide repair constructs and methods that reduce
the amount of trauma associated with using repair constructs while maintaining or
improving the holding strength such constructs and methods can provide. It is also
desirable to provide constructs and methods for use in soft tissue repair that minimize or
eliminate the number and size of knots to be tied by a surgeon, particularly during
arthroscopic repair procedures.
SUMMARY
[0005]          Surgical constructs and methods are generally provided for securing soft
tissue to bone. In one exemplary embodiment the surgical construct includes a first limb, a
second limb that is shorter than the first limb, a coaxial region, and a collapsible snare
defined by the first limb and the second limb. The coaxial region can be formed by a
terminal end of the second limb being disposed within a volume of the first limb, with the
snare being located on one side of the coaxial region and a terminal end of the first limb
being disposed on the other side of the coaxial region. The first and second limbs can be
from the same surgical filament. In other embodiments the first and second limbs can be
from separate surgical filaments. The surgical filament(s) can include, for example,
braided suture. The collapsible snare can include a slidable knot that adjusts a size of an
opening defined by the snare by moving towards and away from the coaxial region. In one
embodiment, the size of the opening defined by the snare decreases when the slidable knot
moves away from the coaxial region and increases when the slidable knot moves towards
the coaxial region.

                                                 3
[0006]           The first limb of the construct can be cannulated at the coaxial region. A
length of the coaxial region can be substantially shorter than a length of the first limb
extending from the other side of the coaxial region. The length of the coaxial region can
also be substantially shorter than lengths of the first and second limbs on the side of the
coaxial region on which the snare is located. The coaxial region can be configured to be
deconstructed after placement of the suture construct at a surgical location. This can allow
the first and second limbs to be used to secure a location of the suture construct, for
instance after tissue coupled to the suture construct has been advanced to a desirable
location proximate to bone.
[0007]           The suture construct can also include a suture anchor having a filament
engagement feature. A portion of the construct can be slidably disposed around a portion
of the filament engagement feature. In some embodiments the snare can extend from one
side of the anchor and the coaxial region can extend from another side of the anchor. In
some other embodiments the portion of the first limb that is disposed on the other side of
the coaxial region can engage the filament engagement feature of the anchor such that this
portion of the first limb extends from both sides of the anchor.
[0008]           One exemplary embodiment of a surgical repair method includes selecting a
surgical repair construct having a snare defined by a first filament limb and a second
filament limb, and a coaxial region formed by a terminal end of the second filament limb
being disposed within a volume of the first filament limb. The method can further include
fixing an anchor in bone in proximity to detached soft tissue. Further, a terminal end of the
first filament limb can be passed through a portion of the detached soft tissue and around
an engagement feature of the anchor. The resulting configuration can be one in which the
snare extends from one side of the anchor and the terminal end of the first filament limb
extends from another side of the anchor. Still further, the method can include passing the
terminal end of the first filament limb through the snare, collapsing the snare to engage the
soft tissue, advancing the collapsed snare distally to bring the tissue into proximity with the
bone, and removing the terminal end of the second filament limb from the volume of the
first filament limb to eliminate the coaxial region. The first and second filament limbs can
then be used to tie one or more knots proximate to the collapsed snare to maintain the
tissue at a desired location in proximity to the bone. The passing, collapsing, and

                                                4
advancing steps, however, can be effected without tying a knot in the first or second
filament limbs.
[0009]           In some embodiments at least one of a first end of the surgical repair
construct and a second end of a surgical repair construct can be passed through a surgical
cannula. Further, in some embodiments the method can include passing the terminal end
of the first filament limb through a second portion of the detached soft tissue. The step of
collapsing the snare can include collapsing the snare around the first filament limb
extending from the coaxial region and disposed on an opposite side of the coaxial region
from the snare. Alternatively, in some embodiments the step of passing the terminal end of
the first filament limb through the snare can include passing the coaxial region through the
snare and then collapsing the snare can include collapsing the snare around the first
filament limb and the second filament limb disposed therethrough.
[0010]           The anchor that is fixed in bone can include a suture shuttle filament
slidably coupled to the engagement feature. The suture shuttle filament can have a free
end and a receiving end and can be coupled to the anchor prior to the step of passing a
terminal end of the first filament limb through a portion of the detached soft tissue. In such
embodiments, the step of passing a terminal end of the first filament limb through a portion
of the detached soft tissue and around an engagement feature of the anchor can rely on the
suture shuttle filament to assist in moving the surgical repair construct. More particularly,
the terminal end of the first filament can be coupled to the receiving end of the suture
shuttle filament and a force can be applied to the free end of the suture shuttle filament to
move the receiving end of the suture shuttle filament, and thus the terminal end of the first
filament limb, toward and then around the engagement feature of the anchor. The suture
shuttle filament can then pass around and out of contact with the engagement feature of the
anchor, thereby allowing the surgical repair construct to be in direct contact with the
engagement feature. Eventually, the resulting configuration is the same as described
above, with the snare extending from one side of the anchor and the coaxial region
extending from another side of the anchor. In some embodiments the suture shuttle
filament can be disposed through the detached soft tissue in two locations. As a result, the
surgical repair construct can also be disposed through the detached soft tissue in two

                                                5
locations following the step of applying a force to the free end of the suture shuttle
filament.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0011]           This invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0012]           FIG. 1A is a schematic view of one exemplary embodiment of a surgical
repair construct;
[0013]           FIG. 1B is a detail view of a coaxial region of the surgical repair construct
of FIG. 1A;
[0014]           FIG. IC is a schematic view of the surgical repair construct of FIG. 1A
illustrating one non-limiting example of potential lengths of portions of the construct;
[0015]           FIG. 2 is a schematic view of the surgical repair construct of FIG. 1A
coupled to a suture anchor;
[0016]           FIG. 3 is schematic view of a suture shuttle filament coupled to the suture
anchor of FIG. 2; and
[0017]           FIGS. 4A-41 are sequential view of one exemplary embodiment for using
the surgical repair construct of FIG. 1A to secure tissue to bone.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0018]           Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
constructs and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the
constructs and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying
drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present

                                               6
invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in
connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the
scope of the present invention. Additionally, to the extent that linear or circular
dimensions are used in the description of the disclosed constructs and methods, such
dimensions are not intended to limit the types of shapes that can be used in conjunction
with such constructs and methods. A person skilled in the art will recognize that an
equivalent to such linear and circular dimensions can easily be determined for any
geometric shape. Sizes and shapes of the constructs, and the components thereof, can
depend at least on the anatomy of the subject in which the constructs will be used, the size
and shape of components with which the constructs will be used, and the methods and
procedures in which the constructs will be used.
[0019]          The figures provided herein are not necessarily to scale. Further, to the
extent arrows are used to describe a direction a component can be tensioned or pulled,
these arrows are illustrative and in no way limit the direction the respective component can
be tensioned or pulled. A person skilled in the art will recognize other ways and directions
for creating the desired tension or movement. Likewise, while in some embodiments
movement of one component is described with respect to another, a person skilled in the
art will recognize that other movements are possible. By way of non-limiting example, in
embodiments in which a sliding knot is used to help define a snare, a person skilled in the
art will recognize that different knot configurations can change whether moving the knot in
one direction will cause a size of an opening defined by the snare will increase or decrease.
Additionally, a number of terms may be used throughout the disclosure interchangeably
but will be understood by a person skilled in the art. By way of non-limiting example, the
terms "suture" and "filament" may be used interchangeably.
[0020]          Surgical repair constructs and methods for soft tissue repair are generally
provided and they generally involve the use of surgical filaments that are configured in a
variety of manners to minimize and/or eliminate the tying of knots during a surgical
procedure. The constructs described herein provide superior strength for use in a number
of different surgical procedures, such as rotator cuff and instability repair procedures and
other types of tendon and tissue repair procedures. The designs of the constructs described

                                                7
herein are such that they have a particularly low profile, thereby allowing a construct to
pass through the tissue with minimal trauma to the tissue and to become associated with
the tissue without tying knots. The low profile results from inserting one limb of filament
into another and eliminating any sort of sleeve, which is often used to assist in shuttling
limbs of filament through tissue. Further, the designs of the constructs are such that they
limit the number of filaments that are used to feed the construct through the tissue, or
otherwise associate the construct with tissue. As described, a single limb of filament can
be used to associate the construct with tissue that is being attached to bone, thereby
assisting a surgeon with suture management.
[0021]          As shown by one exemplary embodiment of a surgical repair construct 10 in
FIG. 1A, the constructs of the present disclosure are generally formed from a single
elongate filament that is folded to form a first limb 12 and a second limb 14. The first limb
12 can generally be longer than the second limb 14, and the two limbs can be used to form
both a snare 20 and a coaxial region 30 as described in greater detail below. The snare 20,
which is disposed on a first end 10a of the construct 10, can be configured to receive an
opposite end 10b of the construct 10 and is operable to collapse around a portion of the
construct disposed in an opening 22 thereof. The coaxial region 30 is generally configured
to allow the shorter second limb 14 to be disposed within a volume of the first limb 12,
thereby eliminating any additional component for suture management, such as a sleeve.
The first limb 12 can then extend beyond the coaxial region 30 to form a tail 40 of the
construct 10. The tail 40 can assist a surgeon with inserting the construct 10 to a desired
location for a surgical procedure.
[0022]          The collapsible snare 20 can be formed using any number of techniques
known to those skilled in the art. In the illustrated embodiment the first and second limbs
12, 14 are formed to include a sliding knot 24. The sliding knot 24 is configured such that
as it moves toward the coaxial region 30, a size of the opening 22 defined by the snare 20
increases, and as the knot 24 moves away from the coaxial region 30, the size of the
opening 22 decreases. Some exemplary knot types include a Buntline Hitch, a Tennessee
Slider, a Duncan Loop, and a Hangman's Noose. A person skilled in the art will
understand that in other configurations, a size of the opening defined by the snare may be
adjusted in different manners, depending on the type of knot, desired use, etc. Some

                                                 8
exemplary snare and formations thereof are described in U.S. Published Patent Application
No. 2012/0130424of Sengun et al. and U.S. Application No. 13/465,288, entitled
"Systems, Devices, and Methods for Securing Tissue, and filed May 7, 2012, the content
of which is incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0023]           Further, in some embodiments a snare-retaining member (not shown) can be
disposed across the first and second limbs 12, 14, between the snare 20 and the coaxial
region 30, for instance to prevent the unintentional collapse of the opening 22 of the snare
20, such as while the construct 10 is being moved through tissue. A snare-retaining
member can include a flexible member or pin, such as the flexible members and pins
described in U.S. Application No. 13/465, 299, entitled "Systems, Devices, and Methods
for Securing Tissue" and filed May 7, 2012, the content of which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
[0024]           The coaxial region 30 in the illustrated embodiment is formed by passing
terminal end 14t of the second limb 14 into a volume of the first limb 12. As shown in
FIG. IB, at least a portion of the first limb 12 can be cannulated, and an opening 16 on a
side of the first limb 12 allows the second limb 14 to be disposed in the first limb 12. The
opening 16 can be created manually by forming a hole in the side of the first limb 12 and
removing a core of the first limb 12 so that there is space to receive the second limb 14.
Alternatively, the filament of the first limb 12 can be a braided suture with a core removed
from at least the portion of the first limb 12 that is part of the coaxial region 30, thereby
allowing the first limb 12 to receive the second limb 14. In other embodiments a core of a
filament, braided or otherwise, is not removed and the second limb 14 is still disposed in
first limb 12 using techniques known to those skilled in the art. The junction 18 at which
the second limb 14 engages the first limb 12 can be a self-maintaining junction. As a
result, pulling on the tail 40 of the surgical construct 10 does not cause the second limb 14
to pull out of the first limb 12. Rather, pulling on the tail 40 can actually force the first
limb 12 to collapse around the second limb 14, thereby providing sufficient friction
between the two limbs 12 and 14 to hold them together. The two limbs 12 and 14,
however, can be separated manually at the junction 18 by applying a sufficient amount of
force. Although in the illustrated embodiment the junction 18 is formed by inserting the
terminal end 14t of the second limb 14 into a portion of the first limb 12, a person skilled

                                                 9
in the art will understand other ways by which the junction can be formed without
departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.
[0025]           The tail 40 of the construct 10 is formed by the remaining portion of the first
limb 12 that extends beyond the coaxial region 30. The tail 40 can be used to help lead
insertion of the construct 10 in tissue, coupling the construct 10 to a suture anchor, and
leading the second end 10b of the construct 10 into the opening 22 of the snare 20 during
tissue repair procedures, among other things. Accordingly, a length and thickness of the
tail 40 can be such that it ensures robust shuttling of the construct 10 during a surgical
procedure.
[0026]           The filament used to form the first and second limbs 12 and 14 can be any
type and material typically used as filaments, including a cannulated filament, a braided
filament, and a mono filament. The type and strength of the filament can depend, at least
in part, on the other materials of the construct, if any, such as an anchor, the tissue and
other components through which it will be passed or coupled to, and the type of procedure
in which it is used. In one exemplary embodiment the filament is a #0 filament (about 26
gauge to about 27 gauge), such as an OrthocordTM filament that is commercially available
from DePuy Mitek, Inc., DePuy Mitek Inc., 325 Paramount Drive, Raynham,
Massachusetts 02767, or an EthibondTM filament that is commercially available from
Ethicon, Inc., Route 22 West, Somerville, NJ 08876. A portion of the core of the filament
can be removed to form a cannulated portion of the first limb 12 for use in the coaxial
region 30. The thickness of the filament should provide strength in the connection but at
the same time minimize the trauma caused to tissue through which it passes. In some
embodiments the filament can have a size between about a #5 filament (about 20 gauge to
about 21 gauge) and about a #3-0 filament (about 29 gauge to about 32 gauge).
OrthocordTM suture is approximately fifty-five to sixty-five percent PDSTM polydioxanone,
which is bioabsorbable, and the remaining thirty-five to forty-five percent ultra high
molecular weight polyethylene, while EthibondTM suture is primarily high strength
polyester. The amount and type of bioabsorbable material, if any, utilized in the filaments
of the present disclosure is primarily a matter of surgeon preference for the particular
surgical procedure to be performed. Additionally, although in the illustrated embodiment a
single filament is used to form the first and second limbs 12 and 14, a separate filament can

                                                 10
be used for each of the first and second limbs 12 and 14 without departing from the spirit
of the disclosures provided herein.
[0027]           The lengths of the various portions of the construct 10 can likewise depend,
at least in part, on the other materials of the construct, if any, the tissue and other
components through which it will be passed or coupled to, the lengths of the various
portions of the construct, and the type of procedure in which the construct is used. The
various portions include the portions of the first and second limbs 12 and 14 on the side of
the coaxial region 30 the snare 20 is located, the coaxial region 30, and the tail 40. In the
illustrated embodiment the coaxial region 30 is substantially shorter than both the tail 40
and the portions of the first and second limbs 12 and 14 on the side of the coaxial region 30
the snare 20 is located. FIG. IC provides one schematic representation of a possible
proportional length scheme comparing a length Li of a region between the knot 24 and one
end 30a of the coaxial region 30, a length L2 of the coaxial region 30, and a length L3 from
the other end 30b of the coaxial region 30 to a terminal end 12t of the first limb 12. As
shown the length Li can be about 17 inches, the length L2 can be about 2 inches, and the
length L3 can be about 14 inches. A person skilled in the art will recognize that these
lengths can change during the course of a procedure. For example, as the sliding knot 24 is
selectively moved toward or away from the coaxial region 30, the length Li will change.
Likewise, a surgeon may be able to manually adjust the lengths L2 and L3. Further, the
lengths provided in the illustrated embodiment of FIG. IC in no way limit values of the
lengths Li, L2, and L3. Generally, the length Li can be approximately in the range of about
5 inches to about 30 inches, the length L2 can be approximately in the range of about 0.5
inches to about 8 inches, and the length L3 can be approximately in the range of about 6
inches to about 40 inches.
[0028]           As shown in FIG. 2, the construct 10 can be coupled to a suture anchor 50.
The suture anchor 50 can include one or more filament engagement features, such as the
filament engagement feature 52 disposed at a distal end 50d of the anchor 50. In the
illustrated embodiment, the snare 20 extends from one side of the anchor and the coaxial
region 30 extends from the other side of the anchor. However, in other embodiments the
tail 40 can be engaged with the filament engagement feature 52 of the anchor 50 such that
the tail 40 extends from both sides of the anchor, for instance as illustrated in FIG. 4D and

                                                11
described further below. Such a configuration can allow the portion of the first and second
limbs 12 and 14 extending between the knot 24 and the coaxial region 30 to not be within
joint space, thereby assisting with suture management by minimizing the number of limbs
emanating from the anchor 50.
 [0029]         As described in greater detail below, in some embodiments the construct 10
can be pre-loaded on the suture anchor 50 prior to insertion of the anchor 50 to a surgical
location, while in other embodiments the construct 10 is loaded onto the suture anchor 50
after the anchor is positioned at the surgical location. One skilled in the art will appreciate
that a variety of suture anchor types can be used in conjunction with the constructs
provided herein. For example, in some embodiments the anchor can be a GryphonTM
anchor that is commercially available from DePuy Mitek, Inc. The constructs described
herein can be single-loaded or double-loaded onto a Gryphon TM anchor.
 [0030]         As a result of the configurations of the construct 10 described herein,
anchors used in conjunction with the construct 10 can be smaller than previous anchors
used in tissue repairs at least because a smaller diameter or thickness of construct can be
associated with the anchor. Further, Gryphon TM anchors are merely non-limiting examples
of anchor types that can be used in conjunction with the disclosures provided herein. Other
types of hard and soft anchors can also be used. Some examples of such anchors include a
Healix TiTM anchor, which is commercial available from DePuy Mitek, Inc., as well as
anchors described in U.S. Application No. 13/465,376, entitled "Systems, Devices, and
Methods for Securing Tissue Using Snare Assemblies and Soft Anchors," filed May 7,
2012, and U.S. Application No. 13/623,429, entitled "Systems, Devices, and Methods for
 Securing Tissue Using Hard Anchors," filed September 20, 2012, the content of which is
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
 [0031]         FIG. 3 illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a suture shuttle filament 60
coupled to the suture anchor 50. Again, virtually any type of suture anchor can be used in
conjunction with the shuttles and constructs provided herein, but the illustrated anchor 50
is a HealixTM anchor. The shuttle 60 can be slidably engaged with the anchor 50 at the
filament engagement feature 52 such that a first end 60a of the shuttle 60 extends from one
side of the anchor 50 and a second end 60b of the shuttle 60 extends from the other side of

                                               12
the anchor 50. The first end 60a can be configured to be coupled to a repair construct, such
as the repair construct 10 of FIG. 1A. As shown, the first end 60a includes a fixed loop 62,
but any other suitable coupling mechanism can be used at the first end 60a without
departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. For example, the first end 60a can
include a clip or a like element to clamp around a repair construct. In other embodiments
the loop 62 can be a collapsible snare. Once the repair construct 10 is coupled to the first
end 60a, the second end 60b can be used to position the repair construct 10 in a desired
location as described below with respect to FIGS. 4A-4D.
[0032]           One exemplary embodiment of a method for performing a rotator cuff repair
using the repair construct 10 of FIG. 1A in conjunction with the suture shuttle filament 60
of FIG. 3 is illustrated in FIGS. 4A-41. A surgical opening can be formed through skin 100
and a cannula can be passed therethrough to create a surgical repair site in a manner well
known to those skilled in the art. Although cannulas are often used to define a channel
through which the procedure can be performed, the cannula is not shown in FIGS. 4A-41
for ease of illustration. Accordingly, to the extent the figures show components of the
construct passing through skin 100, these components would typically be extending
through the cannula, which itself is passed through the skin 100. Further, although the
constructs and methods described herein are particularly useful for minimally invasive
surgery, such as arthroscopic surgery, they can also be used in open surgical procedures.
[0033]           As shown in FIG. 4A, the anchor 50 and suture shuttle filament 60
illustrated in FIG. 3 can be fixated into bone 102 using ordinary techniques, such as by
using a driver to screw or tap the anchor 50 into place. In the illustrated embodiment the
suture shuttle filament 60, which includes the first end 60a having the loop 62 formed
therein, is already coupled thereto, although in other embodiments the suture shuttle
filament 60 can be slidingly coupled to the anchor 50 after the anchor 50 is positioned at its
desired location.
[0034]           As shown in FIG. 4B, the first and second ends 60a, 60b of the suture
shuttle filament 60 can be passed through detached soft tissue, such as tendon 104. As
shown in FIG. 4C, a portion of the tail 40 of the repair construct 10 of FIG. 1A can be
passed through the loop 62, thereby, at least temporarily, coupling the repair construct 10

                                                13
to the shuttle 60. A force approximately in the direction A can then be applied to the
second end 60b to pull the first end 60a, and thus the repair construct 10, through the
tendon 104 at a first location, around the filament engagement feature 52, and through the
tendon 104 at a second location. As a result, as shown in FIG. 4D, the tail 40 can be
disposed around the filament engagement feature 52 and, depending on the length of the
tail 40, can extend on both sides of the anchor 50. Once the suture shuttle filament 60 has
moved the construct 10 to a location that allows a surgeon to grasp the tail 40, either
manually or by the use of a surgical tool, the suture shuttle filament 60 can be de-coupled
from the repair construct 10. The tail 40 can then be used to continue to shuttle the
construct 10 to a desired location, for instance by applying a force in a direction B.
Alternatively, the shuttle 60 can continue to be used to shuttle the construct 10 to a desired
location for the construct 10 before the shuttle 60 is de-coupled from the construct 10. One
non-limiting, exemplary location for the construct 10 is shown in FIG. 4E, in which the
snare 20 is disposed on one side of the anchor 50 and the coaxial region 30 is disposed on
the other side of the anchor 50, with portions of the first and second limbs 12, 14 that are
disposed between the snare 20 and the coaxial region 30 in sliding engagement with the
filament engagement feature 52.
[0035]          As shown in FIG. 4F, the tail 40 and the coaxial region 30 can be passed
through the snare 20 such that portions of the first and second limbs 12, 14 that are
disposed between the snare 20 and the coaxial region 30 are disposed within the opening
22 of the snare 20, thereby allowing the tendon 104 through which the construct 10 is
disposed to be captured. The snare 20 can then be collapsed or dressed around the portions
of the first and second limbs 12, 14 disposed therethrough, with the snare 20 remaining
distal of the coaxial region 30. In embodiments in which a snare-retaining member is
disposed through a portion of the construct 10 to prevent the intentional collapse of the
snare 20, the snare-retaining member can be removed prior to collapsing the snare 20.
[0036]          Alternatively, in other embodiments just the tail 40 can be passed through
the snare such that only a portion of the first limb 12 is disposed within the opening 22 of
the snare 20, thereby allowing the tendon 104 through which the construct 10 is disposed
to be captured. The snare 20 can then be collapsed or dressed around the portion of the tail
40 disposed therethrough. Although in such an embodiment the coaxial region 30 is distal

                                               14
of the snare 20, the snare 20 can be subsequently slid distally toward the tendon to allow
the coaxial region 30 to become proximal of the snare 20, as described below with respect
to FIG. 4G.
[0037]           As shown in FIG. 4G, tension can be applied to the second end 1Ob of the
construct 10 by pulling approximately in a direction C, thereby causing the collapsed snare
20 to slide distally toward the tendon 104 in a zip-line like manner until the snare 20 is
adjacent to the tendon 104. Alternatively, tension can be applied to the second end 10b
before the snare 20 is dressed and after the snare 20 is adjacent to the tendon 104, or some
combination of the two actions can be used, such as partially dressing the snare 20 before
zip-lining it toward the tendon 104.
[0038]           As shown in FIG. 4H, the coaxial region 30 can be disassembled such that
the terminal end 14t of the second limb 14 is no longer disposed in a volume of the first
limb 12. The disassembly can occur at the junction 18, for instance by untucking or
pulling out the second limb 14 from the first limb 12. Alternatively, the coaxial region 30
can be removed entirely by cutting the limbs 12 and 14 at a location distal of the coaxial
region 30, thereby leaving a portion of the limbs 12 and 14. In either instance, the limbs
12 and 14 can then be cinched or otherwise tied together to assist in securing a location of
the collapsed snare 20, and thus the tendon 104 with respect to the bone, as illustrated in
FIG. 41. In the illustrated embodiment, a half-hitch 19 is formed by the surgeon using the
first and second limbs 12, 14. A second half-hitch can be formed to lock the location of
the first half-hitch 19.
[0039]           Although in the illustrated embodiment the construct 10 is passed through
two portions of tendon 104, alternatively the construct 10 can be passed through only one
portion of tendon or tissue while the second portion of the construct 10 can be free of the
tendon or tissue. Such an embodiment can be used, for example, during a labral repair.
Either of the two ends 1Oa, 1Ob can be the end that is not passed through the tendon or
tissue, although in some embodiments it may be useful to have the end 1Oa on which the
snare 20 is located to not pass through tissue to minimize the possibility of unintentional
collapse of the snare 20. Further, in some embodiments, rather than passing through tissue,

                                               15
a repair construct 10 can be coupled to tissue using other techniques, such as, for example,
by wrapping the construct around the tissue.
[0040]          Still further, although the method described with respect to FIGS. 4A-41
uses the suture shuttle filament 60 to locate the construct 10 in a desired location with
respect to the anchor 50, in other embodiments the construct 10 can be pre-coupled to the
anchor 50 that is inserted through the cannula and to the surgical location. In such
embodiments, exemplary methods can begin at FIG. 4D or 4E, with the construct 10
already being coupled to the anchor 50 and the anchor 50 being fixated into bone 102 using
ordinary techniques, such as by using a driver to screw or tap the anchor 50 into place.
[0041]          One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the
invention based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to
be limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by the
appended claims. Further, although the constructs and methods provided for herein are
generally directed to surgical techniques, at least some of the constructs and methods can
be used in applications outside of the surgical field. All publications and references cited
herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[0042]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0043]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0044]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013273654. The full disclosure of AU 2013273654 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                16
CLAIMS
1.       A suture construct, comprising:
          a first limb having a first length;
          a second limb having a second length that is shorter than the first length;
          a coaxial region formed by a terminal end of the second limb being disposed
within a volume of the first limb; and
          a collapsible snare defined by the first limb and the second limb, the collapsible
snare being located on one side of the coaxial region and a terminal end of the first limb
being disposed on the other side of the coaxial region.
2.        The suture construct of claim 1, wherein the collapsible snare includes a slidable
knot such that a size of an opening defined by the snare is able to be decreased by moving
the slidable knot away from coaxial region and the size of the opening is able to be
increased by moving the slidable knot towards the coaxial region.
3.        The suture construct of claim 1, wherein a length of the coaxial region is
substantially shorter than a length of the first limb extending from the other side of the
coaxial region.
4.        The suture construct of claim 3, wherein the length of the coaxial region is
substantially shorter than lengths of the first and second limbs on the side of the coaxial
region on which the snare is located.
5.        The suture construct of claim 1, wherein the coaxial region is configured to be
deconstructed after placement of the suture construct at a surgical location so the first and
second limbs can be used to secure a location of the suture construct.
6.        The suture construct of claim 1, further comprising a suture anchor having a
filament engagement feature, a portion of the construct being slidably disposed around a
portion of the filament engagement feature.

                                                17
7.        The suture construct of claim 6, wherein the snare extends from one side of the
anchor and the coaxial region extends from another side of the anchor.
8.        The suture construct of claim 6, wherein the portion of the first limb disposed on
the other side of the coaxial region engages the filament engagement feature of the anchor
such that the portion of the first limb disposed on the other side of the coaxial region
extends from both sides of the anchor.
9.        The suture construct of claim 1, wherein the first limb is cannulated at the coaxial
region.
10.       The suture construct of claim 1, wherein the first limb and the second limb are
portions of one surgical filament.
11.       The suture construct of claim 10, wherein the surgical filament comprises a
braided suture.
12.       A surgical repair method, comprising:
          selecting a surgical repair construct comprising:
                   a collapsible snare defined by a first filament limb and a second filament
limb; and
                   a coaxial region formed by a terminal end of the second filament limb
being disposed within a volume of the first filament limb;
          fixing an anchor in bone in proximity to detached soft tissue;
          passing a terminal end of the first filament limb through a portion of the detached
soft tissue and around an engagement feature of the anchor such that the snare extends
from one side of the anchor and the terminal end of the first filament limb extends from
another side of the anchor;
          passing the terminal end of the first filament limb through the snare;
          collapsing the snare to engage the soft tissue;
          advancing the collapsed snare distally to bring the tissue into proximity with the
bone; and

                                                18
           removing the terminal end of the second filament limb from the volume of the
first filament limb to eliminate the coaxial region.
13.        The method of claim 12, further comprising tying the first and second filament
limbs into one or more knots proximate to the collapsed snare after the coaxial region has
been eliminated to maintain the tissue at a desired location in proximity to the bone.
14.        The method of claim 12, further comprising passing at least one of a first end of
the surgical repair construct and a second end of a surgical repair construct through a
surgical cannula.
15.        The method of claim 12, wherein the passing, collapsing, and advancing steps are
effected without tying a knot in the first or second filament limbs.
16.        The method of claim 12, further comprising passing the terminal end of the first
filament limb through a second portion of the detached soft tissue.
17.        The method of claim 12, wherein collapsing the snare further comprises
collapsing the snare around the first filament limb extending from the coaxial region and
disposed on an opposite side of the coaxial region from the snare.
18.        The method of claim 12, wherein passing the terminal end of the first filament
limb through the snare further comprises passing the coaxial region through the snare, and
wherein collapsing the snare further comprises collapsing the snare around the first
filament limb and the second filament limb disposed therethrough.
19.        The method of claim 12, wherein the anchor in bone further comprises a suture
shuttle filament having a free end and a receiving end, the suture shuttle filament being
slidably coupled to the engagement feature of the anchor prior to the step of passing a
terminal end of the first filament limb through a portion of the detached soft tissue, the step
of passing a terminal end of the first filament limb through a portion of the detached soft
tissue and around an engagement feature of the anchor further comprising:
           coupling the terminal end of the first filament limb to the receiving end of the
suture shuttle filament; and

                                                19
          applying a force to the free end of the suture shuttle filament to move the
receiving end of the suture shuttle filament, and thus the terminal end of the first filament
limb, toward and then around the engagement feature of the anchor such that the suture
shuttle filament passes around and out of direct contact with the engagement feature of the
anchor and the surgical repair construct is in direct contact with the engagement feature.
20.       The method of claim 19, wherein the suture shuttle filament is disposed through
the detached soft tissue in two locations such that the surgical repair construct is also
disposed through the detached soft tissue in two locations following the step of applying a
force to the free end of the suture shuttle filament.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
