ABSTRACT
A supplementary support assembly for a modular scaffold system formed from a matrix of
interconnecting scaffold bays. The assembly including a pair of spaced apart transoms (88)
adapted to be cantilevered outwardly from the scaffold bays and one or more decking boards
(90) extending between the pair of transoms, thereby providing a supplementary support
platform (85).
FIGURE 8

                 8/39
                           24
22                          44
            23\                  40
     38
                                  44
  20
       23--                    24
     38                 O40
   231
22~'
                            24
               FIGURE 8

                                                 -1
    CANTILEVERED SUPPLEMENTARY SUPPORT PLATFORM FOR MODULAR
                                            SCAFFOLD
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014214551, the
entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The present invention relates generally to scaffolding and more particularly to an
improved method, apparatus and system for erecting or extending scaffolding. The invention
has been developed primarily for use in the erection of scaffolding around curved, complex or
irregularly shaped architectural, building or civil engineering structures and will be described
predominantly in that context. It should be appreciated, however, that the invention is not
limited to these specific applications.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     The following discussion of the prior art is intended to facilitate an understanding of
the invention and to enable the advantages of it to be more fully understood. It should be
appreciated, however, that any reference to prior art throughout the specification should not be
construed as an express or implied admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part
of common general knowledge in the field.
[0004]      Scaffolding is a form of temporary framing typically used to support people and
materials during the construction or maintenance of buildings or other large structures. It is
usually modular, based on a combination of elongate tubes or rods and associated connecting
elements. Most modern scaffolding is assembled from a combination of tubular metal framing
elements - usually formed from steel or aluminium - in predetermined lengths and
incorporating complementary end fittings. Decking boards, typically formed from timber or
metal (steel or aluminium), are positioned to extend horizontally between the framing
elements, to provide a working surface, platform or "decking" for workers on the scaffold.
[0005]     The primary framing elements of a typical scaffold include "standards", "ledgers",
"transoms" and "cross braces". Standards are upright or vertical support elements that transfer
loads resulting from the mass of the structure to the ground, a base or some other suitable

                                                 -2
supporting platform. Ledgers are horizontal members connected so as to extend between the
standards. Transoms are typically shorter elements, positioned to extend horizontally between
the ledgers, to provide support for the decking boards. Cross braces are typically positioned to
extend diagonally between adjacent standards, to increase the rigidity of the scaffold structure.
Various types of complementary special purpose end fittings or "couplers" are typically used to
 releaseably connect the various framing and decking elements together in a range of different
orientations and configurations.
 [0006]     For a general-purpose scaffold, the modular elements are usually assembled to form
a contiguous matrix of rectangular prismatic "bays". The dimensions of these bays can vary
according to the intended application and design loading. However, for typical applications, the
 bay length is usually around 2.4 m. The bay width is also determined by the intended use of
the scaffold, which in turn affects the number and width of the associated decking boards. The
 minimum acceptable width is usually 440 mm. Platform widths typically extend beyond that
 minimum in discrete multiples of approximately 220 mm, this distance corresponding to the
width of a standard decking board. Thus, a typical four-board scaffold would be around 880
 mm in width, from standard to standard. The height or "lift" of each bay is typically around 2 m,
although the base lift can sometimes be larger. Transom spacing is determined by the length
and strength of the decking boards to be supported, but usually ranges from 1.2 m to 3.5 m.
 [0007]     Modular scaffolding can be assembled in a variety of ways according to the intended
application. However, the spacing and positioning of the primary structural elements tends to
 be relatively standardised for particular applications according to prevailing safety standards,
 building and construction codes, manufacturers' recommendations and established best
 practice. These factors are well known and understood by those skilled in the art, and so need
 not be described in further detail.
 [0008]     Conventional scaffolding is based around the interconnection of a series of discrete
 rectangular prismatic scaffold bays in substantially contiguous relationship to form the
composite scaffold matrix structure. Hence, there are fundamental limitations around the
overall positions, orientations and directional changes that can be readily achieved in practice.
 For example, scaffold bays can be joined end-to-end to follow a straight line in a given
direction, joined side-to-end to create a 900 change of direction, or joined side-to-side to create
a discrete lateral displacement in the same direction. Adjoining scaffold bays can also be
joined end-to-end in a partially offset relationship so as to create smaller lateral displacements

                                                   -3
at defined points, although this substantially complicates the process of assembly and also
substantially impedes the safe passage of workers between the partially offset scaffold bays.
[0009]      With traditional rectangular or at least generally orthogonally designed building
profiles, these limitations of the prior art do not necessarily manifest as major problems.
However, known scaffold systems are not readily able to be adapted in a safe, reliable and
cost-effective manner to more complex, irregular or curved building profiles, which are
becoming increasingly prevalent in contemporary architectural design and civil engineering
projects.
[0010]      Known techniques for constructing scaffold bays in such circumstances, even if
workable to some extent, are time-consuming, difficult, cumbersome and costly. They are also
potentially dangerous as movement of workers between non-aligned scaffold bays is often
impeded, and even with the benefit of some forms of edge protection, gaps are created
through which workers can inadvertently fall, as a result of the nonstandard and relatively more
complex geometries involved. Moreover, in some circumstances, it is necessary to introduce a
complete break between adjacent scaffold bays, which further impedes movement of people
and materials between the bays, heightens safety risks if workers attempt to move between
separated or "broken" bays, and can also compromise the overall rigidity of the scaffold matrix.
[0011]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome or substantially ameliorate one or
more of these deficiencies of the prior art, or at least to provide a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]      Accordingly, in a first aspect, the invention provides a scaffold connection assembly
for use with modular scaffolding of the type formed from a matrix of interconnected scaffold
bays, the connection assembly being adapted to connect a first scaffold bay to a second
scaffold bay, and including:- a first connecting element including a first pair of connecting
formations spaced apart by a first distance and adapted for connection to adjacent inner
portions of the respective first and second scaffold bays;
            a second connecting element including a second pair of connecting formations
spaced apart by a second distance and adapted for connection to adjacent outer portions of
the respective first and second scaffold bays;
            the first distance being different from the second distance, such that upon
engagement of the connection assembly between the first and second scaffold bays, the first
scaffold bay is oriented obliquely with respect to the second scaffold bay.

                                                 -4
[0013]     The terms "inner", "innermost" and the like as used herein are generally intended to
denote the side of a scaffold or scaffold bay closest to a building structure, whereas the terms
"outer", "outermost" and the like are generally intended to indicate the opposite side, furthest
away from the building structure. However, it should be understood that these terms are used
primarily for convenience, merely to distinguish one side of a scaffold structure or scaffold bay
from another, and beyond that distinction these terms are essentially arbitrary and are not
intended to be limiting in any way. Similarly, the terms "first", "second" and the like are likewise
essentially arbitrary, intended simply to differentiate one component from another, and should
not be regarded as having any sequential, hierarchical, or other significance or limiting import.
It should also be understood that one or both of the "first" and" second" distances may be
equal to zero.
[0014]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are intended to be construed in an
inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0015]     In one preferred embodiment, each of the first and second scaffold bays is formed
from a combination of primary framing elements including a pair of spaced apart inner vertical
supports or "standards", a corresponding pair of spaced apart outer standards, a series of
ledgers connected to extend generally horizontally between the standards, at least two
transoms extending horizontally between the standards at each end of the bay, and a series of
decking boards disposed in contiguous side-by-side relationship to form a working platform
extending between the transoms. Diagonally oriented cross-braces may also be attached.
[0016]     Preferably, these primary elements are releasably interconnected by means of
special purpose end-fittings, couplers and clamps, which vary between the different proprietary
scaffold systems. In one embodiment, the connection mechanism is based on the "V-press"
system, whereby V-shaped apertures formed by lugs on the standards are engaged by
corresponding spigots extending downwardly from the ledgers and transoms. It should be
understood, however, that a wide variety of other scaffolding systems and component
connection mechanisms may alternatively be used.
[0017]     In one preferred embodiment, the connecting formations on the first connecting
element are adapted for engagement with the adjacent inner standards on the respective first
and second scaffold bays. In one embodiment, each connecting formation on the first

                                               -5
connecting element includes an upper and lower flange extending outwardly from a central
bridge section, and adapted respectively to be positioned above and below a corresponding V
press fitting extending transversely from the inner standard of the corresponding scaffold bay.
Upon engagement, a locking wedge for each connecting formation is preferably positioned to
extend downwardly through the upper flange, through the V-press fitting and through the
corresponding lower flange, thereby releasably to lock the connecting formation to the
associated inner standard of the respective scaffold bay.
[0018]      In one embodiment, the first connecting element is formed from a pair of "C" shaped
brackets effectively joined back-to-back, such that the mutually opposed upper arms define the
upper flanges of the respective first and second connecting elements, and the mutually
opposed lower arms define the lower flanges of the respective first and second connecting
elements.
[0019]      In one embodiment, the connecting formations on the second connecting element
are adapted for engagement with the adjoining outer standards on the respective first and
second scaffold bays. In one embodiment, each connecting formation on the second
connecting element includes a downwardly depending spigot, adapted for engagement with a
corresponding V-press fitting extending transversely from the outer standard of the
corresponding scaffold bay, whereby upon engagement a locking wedge extends downwardly
through the V-press fitting, so as releaseably to lock the connecting formation to the
associated outer standard of the respective scaffold bay. Preferably, the connecting formations
on each second connecting element define the terminal ends of an intermediate bridge portion.
In one embodiment, the bridge portion of the second connecting element comprises a bar,
tube, beam, rod or plate. In certain embodiments, the bridge portion may be straight, outwardly
curved, or inwardly curved.
[0020]      In one embodiment, the assembly further includes a pair of double-sided transom
elements, each adapted to extend between the adjacent inner standard and the outer standard
of a respective one of the first and second scaffold bays. In this way, the inner end of each
transom element is adapted for connection with the outwardly depending V-press fitting of the
associated inner standard, and the outer end of each transom element is adapted for
connection with the inwardly depending V-press fitting of the associated outer standard.
[0021]      Because the first and second connecting elements are of different effective lengths,
the double-sided transom elements preferably define non-parallel radial sides of a wedge-

                                                  -6
shaped gap formation between the adjacent sides of the first and second scaffold bays. In this
case, the assembly preferably further includes a complementary wedge plate adapted to
extend between the transom elements, so as substantially to cover or close the gap formation
defined between the adjoining scaffold bays.
[0022]      It will be appreciated that the included angle subtended by the transom elements
determines the oblique angle defined between the first and second scaffold bays, and is also
directly related to the difference in effective length between the first connecting element and
the second connecting element.
[0023]      In some embodiments, multiple connecting assemblies may be installed contiguously
between the same first and second scaffold bays, in order to increase (in discrete multiples)
the oblique angle defined between the bays.
[0024]      In some embodiments, the transom elements are permanently connected to, or
integrally formed with, the wedge plate. Similarly, in some embodiments, the first and second
connecting elements may be permanently connected to, or formed integrally with, the transom
elements and/or the wedge plate. In some embodiments, the wedge plate may be formed from
multiple panels, sections, boards or plates, including textured or perforated plates.
[0025]     According to a second aspect, the invention provides a scaffold system for use with
modular scaffolding formed from a matrix of interconnecting scaffold bays, the system
including a plurality of scaffold connection assemblies as previously defined, adapted
respectively for connection between adjoining first and second scaffold bays, whereby the
adjoining scaffold bays are securely connectable at oblique angles, enabling the scaffold
matrix to conform closely to irregular building profiles.
[0026]      In some embodiments, the system includes a series of different connection
assemblies, defining a range of different wedge angles, enabling the oblique connection
angles defined between adjacent scaffold bays to be selectively adjusted.
[0027]      In some embodiments, the system includes cantilever truss modules or hop-up
assemblies adapted for connection to the inner or outer sides of the first or second scaffold
bays, and/or to the inner or outer sides of the connecting assemblies. For ease of reference,
the term hop-up (or supplementary support assembly) will be used throughout the following
description. However, it will be appreciated that the terms hop-up and cantilever truss modules

                                                 -7
can be used interchangeably, regardless of the duty rating requirements (e.g. light, medium or
heavy duty) for a particular scaffold application.
[0028]      Accordingly, in a further aspect, the invention provides a supplementary support
assembly for a modular scaffold system formed from a matrix of interconnecting scaffold bays,
the assembly including:
            a pair of spaced apart transoms adapted to be cantilevered outwardly from the
scaffold bays; and
            one or more decking boards extending between the pair of transoms, thereby
providing a supplementary support platform.
[0029]      In various preferred embodiments, the cantilevered transoms may be adapted for
connection to the inner or outer sides of the scaffold bays, and/or to the inner or outer sides of
a connecting assembly of the scaffold system.
[0030]      In some embodiments, the support platform is narrower than the scaffold bay or
connecting assembly from which the cantilevered transoms extend.
[0031]      In certain embodiments, the pair of cantilevered transoms is configured to contain
from one to five decking boards. In some embodiments, the effective length of each transom is
adjustable in discrete increments, by means of a movable board retaining bracket and
complementary adjustment holes formed in the cantilevered transoms. It will be appreciated
that, in other embodiments, alternative means for adjusting the effective length of the
cantilevered transoms may be used.
[0032]      In some embodiments, each transom has a respective connecting formation adapted
for connection with an adjacent standard of the scaffold system to which the transom is to be
connected. Each connecting formation may be directly or indirectly connected to the respective
transom.
[0033]      In one embodiment, the proximal ends of the cantilevered transoms are adapted for
engagement with V-press fittings on the scaffold standards.
[0034]      In some embodiments, each transom has a main support bar, the proximal end of
which includes a downwardly depending spigot formation adapted for engagement with the V
press fittings.

                                               -8
[0035]     In certain embodiments, the pair of transoms include respective left-handed and
right-handed cantilevered hop-up transom elements, each hop-up transom including a main
support bar in the form of an L-shaped channel section defining a lower board support flange,
adapted to receive and locate the appropriate number of hop-up platform decking boards.
[0036]     In some embodiments, the pair of cantilevered transoms is adapted to support a
second support assembly such that the second support assembly is cantilevered outwardly
from the pair of transoms cantilevered from the scaffold bays. In certain embodiments, the
second support assembly may be adapted to support a third support assembly in a
cantilevered manner. In some embodiments, it may be possible to connect one or more further
consecutive support assemblies in a cantilevered manner to provide the supplementary
support platform with a desired size, within the constraints of the load rating of the scaffold
system and various support assemblies.
[0037]     In some embodiments, the support assembly includes at least one supplementary
support strut associated with each transom, the supplementary support strut extending from
the respective transom at one end and positively engaging the respective scaffold standard at
its other end.
[0038]     In certain embodiments, the supplementary support strut includes an inclined
support element positioned to extend downwardly at an angle, for engagement with the
standard below the connecting formation, such that the cantilevered transom bar is supported
in the horizontal position.
[0039]     In some embodiments, the supplementary support struts include one or more
intermediate bracing elements extending between the supplementary support strut and the
respective cantilevered transom.
[0040]     In some embodiments, the supplementary support struts form a hop-up extension
module in the form of a relatively heavy-duty cantilevered truss arrangement, with multiple
connecting formations on each side. In some embodiments, the connecting formations formed
on the proximal side of the truss arrangement facilitate engagement of the transoms with the
standards, and wherein the connecting formations on the distal end are adapted to support a
second support assembly, to thereby provide a composite hop-up configuration. In certain
embodiments, the second (and any further) support assembly may also have supplementary
support struts.

                                                 -9
[0041]      In some embodiments, the distal end of one or both hop-up transom elements may
be trimmed, cut, configured or otherwise shaped to avoid fouling and to ensure a close fitting
alignment between the two adjacent distal ends.
[0042]      In a further aspect, the invention provides a kit of parts including a plurality of
connection assemblies as defined, or components therefor, enabling the system of the
invention to be implemented.
[0043]      In one embodiment, the kit optionally further includes a comprehensive suite of
complementary scaffold components including standards, ledgers, transoms and decking
elements, compatible with the plurality of connection assemblies.
[0044]      According to a further aspect, the invention provides a method of forming a matrix of
interconnecting scaffold bays, the method comprising the steps (not necessarily sequentially)
of:
            forming a first scaffold bay;
            forming a second scaffold bay;
            providing a scaffold connection assembly as previously defined;
            connecting the first connecting element to adjacent inner portions of the first and
second scaffold bays by means of the first pair of connecting formations; and
            connecting the second connecting element to adjacent outer portions of the first and
second scaffold bays by means of the second pair of connecting formations;
            whereby the first scaffold bay is connected obliquely with respect to the second
scaffold bay, by means of the scaffold connection assembly positioned therebetween.
[0045]      According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a scaffold connection
assembly for use with modular scaffolding of the type formed from a matrix of interconnected
scaffold bays supported on a base, the connection assembly being adapted to connect a first
scaffold bay to a second scaffold bay, and including:- a first connecting element including a
first pair of connecting formations laterally spaced apart by a predetermined first distance and
adapted for connection to adjacent inner standards of the respective first and second scaffold
bays;
            a second connecting element including a second pair of connecting formations
respectively defining terminal ends of an intermediate bridge section and being laterally
spaced apart by a predetermined second distance, the second pair of connecting formations

                                                 - 10
being adapted for connection to adjacent outer standards of the respective first and second
scaffold bays;
           the first distance being different from the second distance, such that upon
engagement of the connection assembly between the first and second scaffold bays, the first
scaffold bay is oriented obliquely with respect to the second scaffold bay;
           wherein the outer standards of the corresponding first and second scaffold bays
include respective lugs of a V-press fitting, each of the lugs defining a generally V-shaped
aperture adapted for releasable engagement by a corresponding generally wedged shaped
locking pin, whereby upon engagement each of the locking pins extends downwardly through
the aperture of the respective lug so as releaseably to lock the corresponding connecting
formation to the respective outer standard;
           the lugs being aligned with the respective first and second scaffold bays and the
connecting formations of the second pair being fixedly secured to the bridge section at a
predetermined oblique angle relative to one another, such that upon engagement of the
second connecting element the connecting formations of the second pair are substantially
aligned with the respective lugs while accommodating the oblique orientation between the
adjoining first and second scaffold bays.
[0046]     In some embodiments, each of the connecting formations of the second pair includes
a downwardly depending spigot adapted for releasable engagement with a corresponding one
of the apertures defined by the respective lug on the adjacent outer standard of the
corresponding first or second scaffold bay, each of the spigots being securely locked in place
upon engagement of the corresponding locking pin.
[0047]     In certain preferred embodiments, the bridge section of the second connecting
element supports the spigots at the oblique angle relative to one another, whereby in use the
spigots are substantially aligned with the respective lugs formed on the adjacent outer
standards, so as to accommodate the oblique orientation between the adjoining first and
second scaffold bays. In other embodiments, the bridge section may be curved, bent, shaped
or otherwise configured to support the connecting formations at the oblique angle relative to
one another, so as to accommodate the oblique orientation between the adjoining first and
second scaffold bays.
[0048]     In some embodiments, a pair of transom elements, each adapted to extend between
the adjacent inner standard and the adjacent outer standard of a respective one of the first and
second scaffold bays, the transom elements in use thereby defining a generally wedge-shaped

                                                 - 11
gap formation between adjacent sides of the adjoining first and second scaffold bays; and a
wedge plate adapted to extend generally between the transom elements thereby substantially
to cover the gap formation.
[0049]     In some preferred embodiments, each of said transom elements is a double-sided
transom element adapted to extend between the adjacent inner standard and the adjacent
outer standard of a respective one of the first and second scaffold bays, each of the transom
elements including a first longitudinal supporting ledge extending laterally inwardly from the
transom element to support the wedge plate, and a second longitudinal supporting ledge
extending laterally outwardly toward the adjacent scaffold bay to support decking boards of the
adjacent scaffold bay.
[0050]     It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, that in those embodiments employing
hop-ups (arranged at the same height/level) on obliquely oriented first and second scaffold
bays, a lateral clearance space will be formed between adjacent hop-ups. The oblique
orientation of adjacent hop-ups will typically result in a generally triangular shaped lateral
clearance space. It will also be understood that, in other scaffold applications, a clearance
space could also be formed between adjacent hop- ups which are arranged in an orthogonal
side-by-side manner. In such applications, the lateral clearance space may be generally
rectangular in shape.
[0051]     Accordingly, in yet a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a lap plate for a
modular scaffold system formed from a matrix of interconnecting scaffold bays, the lap plate
including:
           a body mountable to the scaffold system, the body being of a predetermined size to
substantially cover a lateral space defined between a pair of adjacent hop-ups mounted
respectively to adjacent bays of the scaffold system; and
           engaging means for releasably engaging the body with the scaffold system, wherein
the engaging means is configured in use to locate and captively retain the body in a desired
position so as substantially to cover the lateral space.
[0052]     Preferably, the engaging formation includes a pair of mutually opposed cutouts at
one end of the body of the lap plate. Each cut-out is preferably sized to enable close-fitting
engagement with a respective standard of the scaffold system. Preferably, each cut-out is in
the form of a C-shaped or scalloped formation. It should be understood that the term "cut-out"
as used in this context is not intended to be limited to any particular mode of fabrication, such

                                                 - 12
as physical cutting, although that is one fabrication possibility. The cut-outs may alternatively
be integrally formed, and/or fabricated by other means such as pressing, stamping, drilling,
bending, moulding or the like.
[0053]      It will be appreciated that the two cut-outs result in a generally T-shaped formation at
that end of the body of the panel. This resulting T-shaped formation prevents, when the lap
plate is in position, undesired sliding movement of the panel which would expose the lateral
space it is covering. In particular, the two cut-outs enable engagement with two separate
standards of the adjacent scaffold bays such that the body is restrained from rotational
movement about either standard, as well as lateral movement between the standards. In
addition, the "arms" of the T-formation (or upper limbs of the C-shaped formations) bear
against the standards to prevent axial or longitudinal movement of the panel in one direction,
whilst the lower limbs of the C-shaped formations prevent axial or longitudinal movement in the
opposite direction.
[0054]     This configuration preferably defines a "twist-lock" engagement mechanism, whereby
the lap plate must be inclined toward the vertical orientation, by rotation about a generally
longitudinal axis of the plate, in order to be installed or removed. Hence, advantageously, once
engaged with the adjacent standards in a substantially horizontal orientation, the plate cannot
be inadvertently removed or dislodged from the intended position.
[0055]     Advantageously also, in embodiments where the lap plate extends across the upper
surfaces of the decking boards of the adjacent hop-ups, the thickness of the plate is relatively
small so as to form only a small step between the lap plate and the underlying decking boards,
thereby reducing the risk of a trip hazard being created by the panel. Preferably, the body of
the lap plate is of substantially uniform thickness. In certain preferred embodiments, the lap
plate has a thickness of approximately 3mm. In some embodiments, there may be regions of
reduced thickness, such as around the periphery of the body, to further reduce any trip hazard.
[0056]      Preferably, the body and the engaging means of the lap plate are integrally formed
as a one-piece unit. In some preferred embodiments, the lap plate is formed from a rigid plate
material such as, for example, treaded metal checker plate or other suitable materials.
[0057]      In some embodiments, the lap plates may be configured to extend between adjacent
scaffold bays (as distinct from adjacent hop-ups) that are spaced apart, and thereby to cover
the respective clearance spaces defined between the adjacent bays, whether oriented

                                                - 13
orthogonally or obliquely. In some embodiments, particularly in this situation, respective
engagement means may be formed at opposite ends of the lap plate, for engagement with the
adjacent inner standards and outer standards respectively.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0058]     Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0059]     Figure 1A to 1G a show of a series of standard scaffolding components of a
conventional modular scaffold system, of a type adapted for use in connection with the
invention;
[0060]     Figure 2 is an enlarged perspective view showing the V-press spigot and locking
wedge from the scaffold ledger of figure 1C in more detail;
[0061]     Figure 3 is an enlarged perspective view showing the V-press spigot and locking
wedge from the scaffold transom of figure 1D in more detail;
[0062]     Figures 4A and 4B are enlarged perspective views showing the mechanisms of
engagement of the ledger and transom of figures 2 and 3, with the V-press fittings of the
scaffold standard shown in figure 1A, in more detail;
[0063]     Figure 5 is a perspective view showing a conventional linear scaffold assembly,
comprising a series of scaffold bays joined end to end, and formed from the standard
components shown in figures 1 to 4;
[0064]     Figures 6A to 6F show a series of conventional scaffold matrix configurations in plan
view, each formed from a series of scaffold bays connected in different orthogonal or partially
broken configurations, according to the prior art;
[0065]     Figure 7 is a front elevation view showing a matrix of three scaffold bays,
interconnected at oblique angles by intermediate connecting assemblies, in accordance with
one embodiment of the present invention;
[0066]     Figure 8 is a plan view of the scaffold matrix of figure 7;

                                               - 14
[0067]     Figure 9 is an enlarged exploded perspective view showing one of the oblique
connecting assemblies from the scaffold matrix of figures 7 and 8, according to the invention;
[0068]     Figure 10 is an enlarged perspective view showing the components of the
connecting assembly of figure 9, in the assembled configuration;
[0069]     Figure 1 1 is an enlarged exploded perspective similar to figure 9, as viewed from
the opposite side of the scaffold matrix;
[0070]     Figure 12 is a further enlarged perspective view of the connecting assembly of
figures 9 to 11, as seen from the inner side of the scaffold matrix;
[0071]     Figure 13 is a plan view showing another embodiment of an oblique connecting
assembly and adjoining scaffold bays, according to the invention;
[0072]     Figure 14 is an exploded perspective view showing series of connecting assemblies,
of the type shown in figures 9 to 12; interconnected in contiguous side-by-side relationship to
form a radiused corner for positioning between adjoining scaffold bays;
[0073]     Figure 15 is an exploded perspective view showing a further embodiment of the
connecting assembly according to the invention, adapted to accommodate variable scaffold
widths;
[0074]     Figure 16 is an enlarged perspective view showing the connecting assembly of figure
15 in more detail, as seen from the outer side of the scaffold matrix;
[0075]     Figures 17A to 17E show a series of diagrammatic plan views of a range of different
scaffold matrix configurations, based on the modular oblique connecting assemblies according
to the invention;
[0076]     Figures 18A to 18E are a series of perspective views showing different hop-up
modules, according to a further aspect of the invention;
[0077]     Figure 19 is a perspective view showing a further hop-up module;
[0078]     Figure 20 is a perspective view showing a composite hop-up assembly, formed from
the hop-up modules shown in figures 18 and 19;

                                              -15
[0079]     Figures 21 A and 21 B show a pair of complementary left-handed and right-handed
hop-up transom elements according to the invention;
[0080]     Figure 22 is a plan view showing hop-ups utilising the transom elements of figure 21,
in conjunction with an irregularly shaped scaffold matrix erected using oblique connecting
assemblies in accordance with the invention;
[0081]     Figure 23 is a plan view showing two alternative embodiments of a lap plate covering
a lateral clearance space between the hop-ups of Figure 22;
[0082]     Figures 24A to 24D show various embodiments of lap plate for use with obliquely
oriented hop-ups, according to a further aspect of the invention;
[0083]     Figures 25A to 25C show various steps of the method of installing the lap plate of
Figure 23;
[0084]     Figures 26A to 26C show an embodiment of a connecting element with a pair of tube
clamp connecting formations;
[0085]     Figures 27A to 27C show an embodiment of a connecting element with a pair of C
shaped connecting formations, with locking wedge;
[0086]     Figures 28A to 28C show an embodiment of a connecting element with a pair of
connecting formations having a downwardly depending spigot and locking wedge;
[0087]     Figures 28D and 28E show an alternative embodiment of a connecting element with
a pair of connecting formations comprising generally C-shaped slotted brackets, similar to
those shown in figures 27A to 27C, but fixedly secured at oblique angles to a substantially
straight section of ledger bar;
[0088]     Figure 28F shows a variation on the embodiment of Figures 28D and 28E, wherein
the generally C-shaped slotted brackets are connected in alignment with the substantially
straight section of ledger bar extending therebetween, but the slots themselves are disposed at
predetermined oblique angles;
[0089]     Figure 28G shows a further embodiment of a connecting element having three
releasably connectable components, including a ledger bar and a tube clamp at either end, the

                                                 - 16
ledger bar having a downward depending spigot at each end for connection with a V-press
fitting on the respective tube clamp;
[0090]      Figure 28H shows a front elevation of the connecting element of Figure 28G;
[0091]      Figure 281 shows a variation on the embodiment of Figure 28G, wherein the ledger
bar has a C-shaped slotted bracket at either end, the slots in this embodiment being straight so
as to be substantially aligned with the longitudinal axis of the ledger bar;
[0092]      Figure 28J shows a front elevation of the connecting element of Figure 281;
[0093]      Figures 29A to 29C show an embodiment of a connecting element for use with a
locking-cup coupling mechanism;
[0094]      Figure 30 shows the connecting element of Figure 29 secured between two
standards with the locking-cup coupling mechanism;
[0095]      Figures 31 A to 31 C show another embodiment of a connecting element for use with
a locking-cup coupling mechanism;
[0096]      Figure 32 shows the connecting element of Figure 31 secured between two
standards with the locking-cup coupling mechanism;
[0097]      Figure 33A shows an embodiment of hop-up transom elements which have been
configured to avoid fouling, Figures 33B and 33C show two alternative embodiments of lap
plates for use with the hop-up transom elements of Figure 33A, and Figure 33D shows an
embodiment of modified hop-up transom elements which come together in close mating
relation to cover at least a portion of the lateral clearance space; and
[0098]      Figure 34 shows a perspective view of an embodiment of lap plate having
downwardly depending side legs.
PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0099]      Referring to the drawings, the invention provides a scaffold connection assembly 1
system adapted for use with scaffolding 2. While the connection assembly is adaptable to

                                                 - 17
virtually any system of scaffolding, it will be most commonly applicable to prefabricated
modular scaffolding and will be described predominantly in that context.
[00100]    Prefabricated modular scaffolding is typically composed of a combination of primary
framing elements including upright supports or "standards" 2, adjustable base feet 3 for the
standards, horizontal supports or "ledgers" 4, "transoms" 5, decking boards 6 and tube clamps
7 (see figures 1A to 1G). Diagonal cross-braces, toe board brackets, temporary edge
protection frames and various other specific fixtures and fittings (not shown) are also typically
provided. These primary elements are releaseably connected together by means of special
purpose end-fittings, couplers, brackets and clamps, which vary between the different
proprietary scaffold systems.
[00101]    In the particular form of scaffolding illustrated, the connection mechanism is known
as the "V-pressing" system. As best seen in Figures 1 to 4, it is based on a combination of
generally V-shaped or U-shaped apertures 9 formed by lugs 10 on the upright posts or
standards 2 (see figures 1A and 1 F), which are engaged by complementary spigots 12
extending downwardly from the ends of ledgers, transoms and other elements of the system.
Wedge-shaped locking pins 14 are also installed through each of the apertures 7, so as to
releaseably tighten the connection within the V-pressing (see figures 4A and 4B).
[00102]    These various components are typically assembled to form a series of modular
scaffold bays 15. The bays themselves are connected together, typically end to end, in a
matrix arrangement, which can be extended horizontally or vertically as required, by the
addition of further bays. A basic arrangement of conventional scaffold bays 15 is shown in
figure 5. A series of more complex prior art scaffold matrix configurations is shown in figures
6A to 6F. These configurations show in plan view, respectively, a linear bay array, a 900 bend,
a T-Junction, a staggered or offset Junction, separated "broken bays" and partially connected
broken bays.
[00103]    It will be appreciated from this overview that the prior art is reasonably well adapted
for positioning adjacent straight walls, right-angled bends and generally orthogonal building
structures. However, major problems are encountered with more complex surface profiles or
building structures including particularly curved surfaces, non-orthogonal junctions, irregular
projections and the like. Such building configurations typically result in a multitude of broken
bays of the type illustrated in figures 6E and 6F. This compromises the assembly process and
the overall integrity of the scaffold matrix, impedes movement of workers and materials

                                                  -18
between the broken bays, compromises access to the adjacent building structure at some
points, and potentially increases safety risks as a result of the gaps between the broken bays.
Some of these issues also arise in connection with staggered or offset bays of the type shown
in figures 6C and 6D.
[00104]      To address at least some of these deficiencies of the prior art, and with reference
initially to figures 7 and 8, the connection assembly 1 of the present invention is adapted to
connect a first scaffold bay 20 with a second scaffold bay 22 at an oblique angle. In the
particular configuration of figures 7 and 8, a pair of second scaffold bays 22 are shown, one on
either side of the first bay 20. It should be noted, however, that these designations are entirely
arbitrary in the sense that a second bay could equally be regarded as a first bay, as the bays
themselves are usually either identical or interchangeable, both with each other and with the
connection assemblies.
[00105]      As best seen in figure 8, each of the scaffold bays has an inner side 23 and an outer
side 24, the inner side generally referring to the side of the scaffold nearest the adjacent
building structure (not shown). Again, however, it should be understood that these terms are
used arbitrarily, primarily for internal consistency and convenience of explanation, as the
scaffolding in general and the connection assembly in particular may be used in any
orientation.
[00106]      As best seen in figures 9 to 1 1 , the connection assembly 1 in a first embodiment
includes a first connecting element 30 including a first pair of connecting formations 31
effectively spaced apart by first distance "A" and adapted for connection to adjacent inner
portions of the first and second scaffold bays 20 and 22. A second connecting element 40
includes a second pair of connecting formations 41 spaced apart by a second distance "B" and
adapted for connection to adjacent outer portions of the respective first and second scaffold
bays. The first distance "A" is less than the second distance "B" such that upon engagement of
the connection assembly between the first and second scaffold bays, the first bay is oriented
obliquely with respect to the second bays, as best seen in figure 8.
[00107]      In the embodiment illustrated, and as best seen in figures 9 and 12, the first
connecting element 30 is formed from a pair of "C"-shaped brackets effectively joined back-to
back, to define the first connecting formations 31, adapted for engagement with the V-press
fittings on the adjacent inner standards of the respective first and second scaffold bays.

                                                   -19
[00108]      More specifically, each of the first connecting formations 31 includes a pair of
vertically spaced apart upper and lower arms, respectively defining an upper flange 32 and a
lower flange 34. These flanges extend outwardly from a central bridge section 36, and are
adapted respectively to be positioned above and below the lug 10 on the adjacent V-press
fitting. In this way, upon engagement, the associated wedge pin 14 extends downwardly
through the upper flange 32, through the aperture 9 of the V-pressing and through the
corresponding lower flange 34, thereby releaseably locking the first connecting formation 31 to
the associated inner corner post or standard 38 of the respective scaffold bay (see figure 12).
[00109]      In other embodiments, if a greater effective distance "A" between the first mutually
opposing connecting formations 31 is required, the C-shaped brackets need not be joined
back-to-back, but may alternatively be spaced apart by a longer intermediate bridge section
36, which may, for example, be formed from an appropriate length of bar, tube, rod, plate or
other suitable section. Alternative configurations of the first connecting formations 31, such as
ring clamps, may also be used as required, depending upon the particular form of proprietary
or modular scaffold system with which the connection assembly is being used.
[00110]      Similarly, as best seen in figure 9, the second connecting formations 41 on the
second connecting element 40 are adapted for engagement with the adjoining outer posts or
standards 44 on the respective first and second scaffold bays. Each of the second connecting
formations 41 includes a downwardly depending spigot 12 adapted to extend through the
aperture 9, defined by the adjacent lug 10, of the V-pressing on the respective outer standard
44. In this way, the spigot 12 and hence the associated connecting element is securely locked
into place, upon installation of the corresponding locking wedge 14. The second connecting
formations 41 on the second connecting element 40 define the terminal ends of an
intermediate bridge section 46, which in this case is substantially longer (i.e. effectively
distance B) than the bridge section 36 of the first connecting element (i.e. effectively distance
A).
[00111]      In this case, the bridge section 46 of the second connecting element takes the form
of a relatively short length of ledger bar, which is ideally bent or curved to approximate the
radius of curvature of the "wedge" formation defined by the overall connecting assembly 1.
Advantageously, this bend or curvature in the short ledger bar forming the bridge section 46 of
the second connecting element allows the associated second connecting formations 41 to be
correctly aligned with the respective V-press fittings on the outer standards 44 to which they

                                                - 20
attach, thereby effectively compensating for the change of direction between the adjoining
scaffold bays.
[00112]     In alternative embodiments, this angular alignment may be achieved in different
ways and the bridge portion 46 may take a variety of other forms, including sections of bar,
tube, beam, channel, rod or plate, and may be straight, curved or formed in other suitable
shapes of configurations as appropriate to particular installations. It should also be understood
that in some alternative embodiments, the connecting formations may be adapted to attach to
scaffold elements other than the standards, such as ledgers, transoms or other fittings,
components or fixtures associated with the first and second scaffold bays. It will be
appreciated that in those embodiments employing a straight bridge portion (between either or
both of the first and second connecting formations) the respective connection formations can
be attached or configured so as to provide the desired angular alignment between the
adjoining scaffold bays. It is preferred that the connecting formations are fixedly secured to the
respective ends of the bridge portion.
[00113]    As best seen in figures 9 to 11, the connecting assembly 1 in this embodiment
further includes a pair of double-sided transom elements 50. Each of these transom elements
50 is adapted to extend between the adjacent inner standard 38 and the corresponding outer
standard 44 of the respective first or second scaffold bay. More specifically, as best seen in
figure 9, the inner end of each transom element 50 is adapted for connection to the outwardly
depending V-press fitting of the associated inner standard 38, and the outer end of each
transom element 50 is adapted for connection with the inwardly depending V-press fitting of
the associated outer standard 44. In this way, the longitudinal supporting ledge 52 of each
transom element that extends laterally outwardly toward the adjacent scaffold bay, is adapted
to support decking boards 6 at the proximal end of the associated scaffold bay.
[00114]     It will be appreciated that because the first and second connecting elements 30 and
40 are of different effective lengths, the double-sided transom elements 50 form the non
parallel radial arms of a generally wedge-shaped gap formation 56, defined between the
adjacent sides of the first and second scaffold bays. The included angle defined by the major
arms of this wedge formation, and hence the oblique angle defined between the first and
second scaffold bays, will be directly related to the difference in effective length between the
first and second connecting elements.

                                                - 21
[00115]    The assembly preferably further includes a complementary wedge plate 60, adapted
to extend generally between the transom elements 50. More specifically, this wedge plate 60
rests on the supporting ledges 62 extending laterally inwardly from the respective transom
elements 50, so as substantially to cover or close the wedge-shaped gap formation 56 defined
between the adjoining scaffold bays. The wedge plate 60 is preferably formed from steel or
aluminium "checkerplate" with integral tread grip. It optionally includes an integral vertical kick
panel 65, also preferably formed from checkerplate, for added safety. Advantageously, the
wedge plate arrangement in this embodiment substantially eliminates trip hazards that may
arise in some circumstances if the wedge-shaped gap were left open, and also obviates the
need to custom-form and lash down individual timber lap boards, as may otherwise be
required.
[00116]     In some embodiments, however, depending upon specific configurational,
geometrical and safety constraints, the wedge plate 60 may take a variety of alternative forms
including bars, grills, grates, panels or boards, and in appropriate circumstances may be
omitted altogether.
[00117]     It should also be understood that in further variations of the invention, the transom
elements may be permanently connected to, or be integrally formed with one another, and/or
with the wedge plate. Similarly, in other embodiments, the first and second connecting
elements and associated connecting formations may be permanently connected to, or formed
integrally with, the transom elements and/or the wedge plate.
[00118]     Kickboard locating bracket assemblies 68 are adapted for connection to the
respective outer standards 44 of the first and second scaffold bays. Each bracket assembly 68
includes a vertically oriented channel section 69 adapted to receive and captively retain a
vertically oriented outer kick board 70 for the respective first or second scaffold bay, and a tube
clamp 71 adapted for connection to the respective standard 44, as best seen in figures 9 to 11.
[00119]    A further embodiment of the connecting assembly 1 is shown in figure 13. In this
arrangement, it will be seen that the first and second scaffold bays 20 and 22 on the inner side
23 share a common standard 38, which defines the apex of the oblique injunction between the
bays. In this instance, the first connecting element is effectively integral with the wedge plate
60 and the connecting formations 31 of the first connecting element 30 are essentially
combined into a single component, in the form of a tube clamp 75 adapted for secure
engagement with the shared standard 38. Hence, the delineation or separation between the

                                                 - 22
first connecting formations 31 is conceptual rather than physical (or in other words the distance
"A" is zero), as the same component essentially performs the dual function of engagement with
both the first and second scaffold bays.
[00120]     Similarly, the second connecting element 40 is also effectively integral with the
wedge plate 60 and the second connecting formations 41 similarly comprise tube clamps 76
adapted respectively for secure engagement with the adjacent outer standards of the first and
second bays. In further variations, one or more of the tube clamps 75 and 76 may include
special-purpose lugs or fittings, appropriately angled or otherwise adapted for direct
engagement with the V-pressings of the respective standards 38 and 44. In this embodiment,
the transoms 50 defining the wedge-shaped gap 56 between the bays may optionally also be
integrally formed with the wedge plate 60.
[00121]     Because of the modular nature of the scaffolding and the complementary
components of the invention, multiple connecting assemblies 1 may be installed side-by-side
or contiguously between the same first and second scaffold bays, in order to increase, in
discreet multiples, the oblique angle defined between the bays. This composite configuration is
shown in figure 14, wherein similar features are denoted by corresponding reference numerals,
and the adjoining scaffold bays themselves are omitted for clarity.
[00122]     In this context, it should be understood that some of the connecting formations
adapted for engagement with the scaffold bays, may also or alternatively be adapted for
connection with other compatible connecting elements or connecting assemblies. Angular
adjustability may additionally or alternatively be provided by appropriate specification, selection
or provision of first and second connecting elements from a range of different effective lengths,
so as to define a range of different subtended angles of obliqueness between the adjoining
bays. In one embodiment, a kit of such components in a range of different lengths and
configurations, is provided.
[00123]     In another embodiment, the length of the first and/or second connecting elements
may be adjustable (e.g. a telescopic arrangement). In these adjustable embodiments, a means
for locking the connecting elements at a predetermined fixed length is preferably provided. For
example, the locking means may be in the form of a locking pin or screw. Similarly, in certain
embodiments, the connecting formations of the first and second connecting elements may be
rotatably mounted such that the relative angle between the connecting formations can be
selectively adjusted. Again, a locking element such as a locking pin or screw is preferably

                                                  - 23
provided to lock the connecting formations at a predetermined angle to accommodate the
oblique orientation of the respective scaffold bays. In some embodiments, the angle of
orientation of one of the connecting formations of a particular connecting element may be
adjustable. In other embodiments, the angle of orientation of both connecting formations may
be adjustable.
[00124]    Figure 15 shows a further embodiment adapted to facilitate a change in width of
scaffold bays. In this case, the transom elements 50 of the connecting assembly 1 are sized to
accommodate scaffold bays that are four boards in width. It may sometimes be desirable to
use the system with larger bays, for example bays that are five boards in width, with minimal
modification.
[00125]    To allow this flexibility, radial extension elements 80 are provided. In this example,
the radial extension elements take the form of C-shaped brackets joined back-to-back to form
respective radial connecting flanges compatible with the V-press fittings on the scaffold
standards, in a manner similar to that previously described in relation to the first connecting
elements 30. In this instance, however, the inner flanges engage with the outer standards 44,
while the outer flanges of the respective extension elements engage with further standards 44',
positioned radially outwardly therefrom.
[00126]    As shown in more detail in figure 16, an additional second connecting element 40' is
then positioned to extend between the outer standards 44', such that the second connecting
elements 40 and 40' are substantially parallel. In this way, a wider five board scaffold
configuration can be readily accommodated with minimal modification to the componentry of
the basic connecting assembly. It will also be appreciated that other dimensional changes or
transitions may be accommodated in a similar manner. For example, a five board connection
assembly may be readily extended to accommodate six or seven board scaffold bays, and so
on. It should also be understood that in some embodiments, variations or transitions in scaffold
width may be accommodated by substitution of transom elements 50 of different length, as
required.
[00127]    Figures 17A to 17E show a series of different configurations of scaffold bays and
associated connecting assemblies, to illustrate the wide variety of scaffold profiles that can be
achieved using the system of the present invention. These range from simple non-orthogonal
changes of direction, through to sharp or gradual bends, switchback turns and changes in
width. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that this flexibility readily allows the

                                                - 24
scaffolding to be configured so as to closely hug highly complex, irregularly contoured or
curved building profiles with continuity, structural integrity, ease of movement between the
bays, and without the need for broken bays.
[00128]    In a further aspect, as best seen in figures 18A to 18E, the invention provides a
method and system for forming "hop-ups" in a variety of configurations, for use in conjunction
with the connecting assemblies 1.
[00129]    As will be understood by those skilled in the art, hop-ups are essentially
supplementary support platforms cantilevered outwardly from a primary scaffold structure or
scaffold bay. They are usually, although not always, narrower than the main bays from which
they extend. They may be erected on the inner or outer sides or ends of the main bays, as
required for particular purposes. However, in the case of the curved or obliquely angled
scaffold structures enabled by the present invention, conventional hop-up components and
techniques may not be viable in all circumstances.
[00130]    These hop-ups of the present invention can be used as an integral part of a
comprehensive overall system to facilitate building access, to enable storage of building
equipment or materials, or for other specific purposes, in the context of non-orthogonal scaffold
configurations.
[00131]    Figures 18A to 18E show a series of hop-ups 85. In each case, the hop-up assembly
85 includes a pair of spaced apart hop-up transoms 88 adapted to be cantilevered from the
main scaffold structure and a series of hop-up decking boards 90. Hop-ups may be configured
to contain anywhere from one to five or more decking boards 90. However, one to three board
configurations are relatively common.
[00132]    The proximal ends of the hop-up transoms 88 may be adapted for engagement with
the V-press fittings on the scaffold standards in the manner previously described (see figures
18A and 18B), or may be attached by tube clamps (figure 18C) or other suitable means. With
relatively narrow hop-up configurations comprising only two or three decking boards, a simple
cantilevered arrangement may be adequate, as shown in figures 18A to 18C. With wider hop
ups involving additional boards, supplementary support struts 92 may also be provided, as
shown in figures 18D and 18E. In some embodiments, the width of the hop-up is adjustable in
discrete increments, by means of movable board retaining brackets 94 and complementary
adjustment holes 95 formed in the hop-up transoms 88 (see figures 18D and 18E).

                                                  - 25
[00133]    If wider or more extensive hop-ups are required, hop-up extension modules 98 are
provided, as shown in figure 19. The extension module 98 takes the form of a relatively heavy
duty cantilevered truss arrangement, with multiple V-press fittings on each side. These
modules may be used independently, or in conjunction with a variety of other hop-ups 85 of the
type previously described, as shown for example in the composite hop-up configuration of
figure 20. That is, each hop-up may be adapted to support one or more additional hop-ups,
connected in a sequential series in a cantilevered manner.
[00134]    As previously noted, these various hop-up arrangements may be positioned on
either side of the scaffold as required, to facilitate access to adjacent buildings in the case of
more complex architectural geometries and also to facilitate storage of tools, equipment and
building materials. However, if there is an oblique change of direction or a curvature in the
scaffold profile arising from the utilisation of one or more of the oblique connecting assemblies
as previously described, it can be advantageous for the hop-ups to be as compact or as self
contained as possible, particularly near the inner radius of an oblique junction.
[00135]    To this end, one embodiment of the invention as shown in figures 21 A and 21 B
provides respective left-handed and right-handed cantilevered hop-up transom elements 88A
and 88B. Each hop-up transom includes a main support bar in the form of an L-shaped
channel section 101 defining a lower board support flange 102, adapted to receive and locate
the appropriate number of hop-up platform decking boards (typically two, three or four). The
proximal end of the main support bar includes a downwardly depending spigot formation
adapted for engagement with a V-press fitting on the adjacent standard to which the hop-up is
to be connected. For wider hop-up platforms, an inclined support element may be positioned to
extend downwardly at an angle, for engagement with the standard below the V-press fitting,
such that the main transom bar is supported in the horizontal position (similar to the
configuration shown in figures 18D and 18E). The other end of the hop-up is supported by a
similar but complementary left-handed or right-handed transom element, such that the
mutually opposing board support flanges 102 are oriented laterally inwardly, facing toward one
another.
[00136]    As best seen in the plan view of figure 22, these directionally oriented onesided
transom arms avoid any unnecessary or redundant lateral extension or overhang of the hop-up
structure, beyond the decking boards. The directional transoms thereby maximise the lateral
clearance space 100 between adjacent hop-ups converging toward one another on the inside
edge of a curved or oblique scaffold junction, adjacent one or more of the connecting

                                                - 26
assemblies. This in turn allows the hop-ups of the various embodiments as described to be
used more flexibly, in a broader range of situations, to accommodate more complex
architectural and building geometries. If desired, the generally triangular lateral clearance
spaces 100 defined between the obliquely oriented hop-ups may be covered over by lap plates
as described more fully below, optionally also formed from metal checkerplate or other suitable
materials. It should be noted that the complementary directionally oriented left-handed and
right-handed hop-up transom arms 88A and 88B may also be used in conjunction with the
larger cantilevered hop-up truss modules 98, as and when required.
[00137]    As shown in Figure 23, the generally triangular lateral clearance spaces 100 defined
between the obliquely oriented hop-ups are preferably covered over by metal checkerplate lap
plates 101. It will be appreciated that the lap plates 101 advantageously provide, in
combination with the decking boards of the respective hop-ups, a continuous uninterrupted
substantially level platform along which workers can safely move between adjacent hop-ups
without concern of stepping into the lateral spaces, or of equipment falling through these
spaces.
[00138]    Figure 23 shows two differently sized lap plates 101 for covering lateral clearance
spaces of varying size, as determined by the oblique angle between the adjacent scaffold
bays. In this regard, it will be appreciated that the length and width of the body 102 of the lap
plate 101 can be selected such that the body covers the lateral clearance space 100, as well
as overlying a portion of the decking of each hop-up of the adjacent pair of hop-ups with which
it is associated. The width of the lap plate determines the extent of the overlying portion which
readily facilitates face-to-face abutment with the hop-up decking, thereby to locate and support
the lap plate 101 in a horizontal orientation at the desired working height.
[00139]    The length of the lap plate 101 is preferably selected to be a discrete multiple of the
width of the decking boards of the hop-ups. In Figure 23, the two illustrated lap plates have a
length suitable for use with a five-board hop-up.
[00140]    Figures 24A to 24C show lap plates having lengths suitable for two-board, three
board, and four-board hop-ups, respectively. Figure 24D shows a lap plate for four-board hop
ups, but of greater width to that shown in figure 24C for covering wider lateral clearance
spaces 100.

                                                 - 27
[00141]    As most clearly shown in the various embodiments of Figure 24, the lap plate 101
has engaging means in the form of a generally T-shaped formation at the proximal end of the
body 102 of the panel. The T-shaped formation is formed by two mutually opposed U- or C
shaped cut-outs 103 (one being a mirror image of the other) on opposite sides of the body of
the panel.
[00142]     Each C-shaped cut-out 103 is sized to enable close-fitting engagement with a
respective standard of the scaffold system such that, when the lap plate is mounted in position
(Figure 23), undesired sliding movement of the panel, which would expose the lateral space it
is covering, is prevented. In particular, the two cut-outs enable engagement with two separate
standards of the adjacent scaffold bays such that the body is restrained from rotational
movement about either standard, as well as lateral displacement between the standards (i.e.
this undesired movement is indicated by the arrows shown in broken line in Figure 25C). In
addition, the "arms" of the T-formation (or upper limbs of the C-shaped formations) bear
against the standards to prevent axial or longitudinal movement of the panel in one direction,
whilst the lower limbs of the C-shaped formations prevent movement in the opposite direction.
[00143]    Advantageously, the thickness of the in-fill is relatively small so as not to create a trip
hazard. In the illustrated embodiments, the lap plate has a substantially uniform thickness of
approximately 3mm.
[00144]     Referring now to Figures 25A to 25C, the "twist-lock" method of installing the lap
plate 101 is described. To mount the lap plate 101 over the lateral clearance space 100, the
panel is first rotated or twisted about its longitudinal axis onto its side toward the vertical
orientation as shown in Figure 25A, so that it may be fed, in the direction of arrow TV, through
the adjacent pair of standards to which the lap plate is to be secured. Next, as shown in Figure
25B, when the C-shaped apertures 103 are aligned with the pair of standards, the lap plate
101 is rotated back in the direction of arrow 'B', into a substantially horizontal orientation, such
that the standards are received within the respective C-shaped formations. Finally, with
reference to Figure 25C, the lap plate 101 is allowed to drop in the direction of arrow 'C until it
comes to rest on the decking boards of the adjacent hop-ups, whereby it is supported in a
horizontal orientation covering the lateral clearance space 100. In order to disassemble the lap
plate, the above process is performed in reverse order.
[00145]    Thus, it will be appreciated that the T-shaped engaging formation at the proximal end
of the lap plate thus provides a twist-lock mechanism which enables quick and efficient

                                                  - 28
installation of the lap plate, whilst securely retaining the panel in place during use, and
preventing inadvertent misalignment or removal.
[00146]     With reference to Figures 33A to 33D, the size of the oblique angle between
adjacent hop-ups, together with the length of the hop-up transom elements, can in some
instances result in fouling between the ends of the adjacent hop-up transom elements. To
address this issue, the distal end of one or both hop-up transom elements can be trimmed or
otherwise shaped to avoid fouling and to ensure a close fitting alignment between the two
adjacent distal ends. In the illustrated embodiments, the hop-up transom elements are cut at a
predetermined angle to ensure that the distal ends do not clash. In other embodiments, a
square cut can be made at the distal ends to remove a portion of the inner arm of the angle
plate, to thereby avoid a clash between the adjacent elements. In some embodiments, the
upright or vertical arm of the angle plate may also be trimmed to avoid fouling. The inner or
bottom angle may partially overlap the vertical arms of the angles of the transom element of
the adjoining hop-up.
[00147]     As shown in Figures 33B and 33C, suitably shaped lap plates can be mounted over
the lateral clearance space. The lap plates are preferably shaped to complement the mating
trimmed distal ends of the hop-up transom elements. In some embodiments, the side edges of
the lap plates are folded downwardly to form a leg 120 having length equating approximately to
the thickness of the hop-up decking boards, thereby providing the same effective thickness to
the lap plates as shown in Figure 34. In the embodiment of Figure 33B, the lap plate has a
similar T-shaped engaging formation for engaging a pair of adjacent standards in the manner
described above. In other embodiments, such as that shown in Figure 33C, the lap plate body
may terminate before the pair of standards from which the adjacent hop-ups extend. In such
embodiments, the lap plate may have alternative engaging means for engaging the standards
or other portion of the scaffold system, or may simply rest in position with the transom element
inhibiting movement of the panel. In these embodiments, the lap plate does not actually
overlap with the adjacent hop-up boards and hence the plate could also be described as a
horizontally oriented in-fill plate or panel. It should be understood, however, that the term "lap
plate" as used herein is also intended to encompass such configurations.
[00148]     The embodiments of the lap plates illustrated in Figures 33B, 33C and 34 are
configured for use with an outwardly curved building or wall (i.e. one having a convex profile).
It will be appreciated that the lap plates could be readily adapted for use with an inwardly
curved building or wall (i.e. one having a convex profile). That is, the side edges of the lap

                                                  - 29
plates may diverge away from each other such that the distal end (i.e. the point further from
the adjacent standards) is the widest portion of the lap plate, as opposed to converging as
shown in the illustrated embodiments. In other embodiments, the side edges of the lap plate
can be substantially parallel so as to form a generally square or rectangular plate.
[00149]     In other embodiments, the lap plate may not take the form of a separate element as
described above with reference to Figures 23 to 25. Rather, the hop-up transom elements 88
of adjacent hop-ups may be adapted to extend across the lateral clearance space so as
effectively to act (at least in part) as an inbuilt lap plate. The pairs of hop-up transom elements
88 may be shaped or otherwise configured to come together in close mating relation, such that
one portion 88C of the first element 88 forms a portion of the inbuilt panel and the other
element 88 has a second portion 88D which forms the remainder of the inbuilt panel (Figure
33D). For example, in some forms, the pairs of hop-up transom elements 88 may at least
partially overlap, thereby covering the lateral clearance space (e.g. the inner or bottom angle
can partially overlap the vertical arms of the angles of the transom element of the adjoining
hop-up).
[00150]     In alternative embodiments to those illustrated in Figures 8 to 22, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that various other connecting formations could be used
with the first and second connecting elements of the scaffold connection assembly described
herein and/or with the various embodiments of the hop-up modules. A number of these
alternative connecting elements and formations are illustrated, by way of example, in Figures
26 to 32. It will be appreciated that each of these examples could be employed as the first
and/or second connecting elements and/or as the connecting elements for the hop-ups.
[00151]     Figures 26A to 26C show one alternative embodiment of a connecting element
having a curved, bent or otherwise angled rigid bar or tube 104. The tube is of a predetermined
fixed length, with a pair of tube clamps 105 fixedly attached at the respective ends. As clearly
shown in Figure 26A, each tube clamp 105 is arranged perpendicularly to the respective end of
the tube. It will be appreciated that the tube clamps 105 are not limited to connection at the
extreme end of the tube 104, but could alternatively be connected to the side face, or about the
outer surface, of the tube 104 at a point adjacent to the respective end.
[00152]     Figures 26B and 26C show an enlarged view of the tube clamp 105 in an unlocked
configuration and a locked configuration, respectively. Each tube clamp 105 has a first
member 106 fixedly connected to the end of the tube and a second member 107 hingedly

                                               - 30
connected to one end of the first member so as to be movable between an open and a closed
position. A locking element in the form of a threaded bar 108 and locking nut 109 is hingedly
connected to the other end of the first member and adapted to move between a free position
and a retained position within a corresponding receiving formation at the distal end of the
second member. The first and second members of the tube clamp have mutually opposed
concave mating surfaces 110 for mating engagement with a standard of the scaffold system.
[00153]     In other embodiments, (not shown) the pair of tube clamps 105 may be fixedly or
releasably connected to the ends of a straight section of ledger bar. In such embodiments, the
arcuate inner surfaces 110 of the tube clamps 105 enable the connecting element to
accommodate the oblique orientation between the adjoining scaffold bays by effectively self
aligning the respective tube clamps 105 at the appropriate oblique angles with respect to the
scaffold bays.
[00154]     In another embodiment (also not shown), the connecting formation at each end of
the tube 104 may be formed as a pair of tube clamps 105 coupled together (e.g. back-to-back
and oriented at 90 degrees to one another), rather than as a single tube clamp 105 as
illustrated in Figures 26A to 26C. In such embodiments, one of the coupled tube clamps 105 of
each pair is adapted for connection to a corresponding substantially vertical standard while the
other tube clamp is connected to a substantially horizontal ledger bar of the connection
assembly. Each pair of tube clamps 105 may be pivotally coupled together, for example by
means of a swivel connection, to enable movement therebetween so as to accommodate the
oblique orientation of the scaffold bays. Alternatively, the tube clamps of each pair may be
coupled in a fixed angular orientation (including but not limited to a 900 orientation) as
appropriate to the particular oblique connection geometry and methodology.
[00155]     Figures 27A to 27C show another alternative embodiment of a connecting element
having a curved, bent or otherwise angled bar or tube 104. The tube is again rigid and of a
predetermined fixed length. In this embodiment, the pair of connecting formations are in the
form of C-shaped brackets 1 11 fixedly attached at the respective ends of the tube 104. As
clearly shown in Figure 27A, each C-bracket is again arranged perpendicularly to the
respective end of the tube. Each C-bracket has an aperture 112 in its upper and lower limbs
and formed so as to be aligned with the axis of the tube at the respective end, thereby
facilitating alignment with the adjacent scaffold bay, in use. As shown in Figures 27B and 27C,
the apertures 112 are adapted to receive a locking wedge 14 for securing the connecting
element to a standard of the scaffold system.

                                               - 31
[00156]   Figures 28A to 28C show yet further alternative embodiments of a connecting
element having a bar or tube 104 of predetermined fixed length. In these embodiments, each
connecting formation includes a downwardly depending spigot 12 for engaging a
corresponding lug 10 of a standard 2 of the scaffold system. Each connection formation also
has an aperture 112 adjacent each spigot 12 for receiving a locking wedgel4 to securely retain
the connecting element to the lug 10 of the respective standard 2. In the embodiment of Figure
28A, the spigots 12 and apertures 112 are aligned with the corresponding ends of the
interconnecting tube or ledger 104, and the predetermined relative oblique orientation is
achieved by a bend in the tube itself. In the embodiment of figures 28B and 28C, the
interconnecting tube or ledger bar 104 is substantially straight, and the connection formations
are arranged obliquely with respect to the longitudinal axis of the tube. In this way, again, the
connection formations are fixedly supported at a predetermined oblique angle, relative to each
other. The oblique orientation of the connecting formations is such that they are aligned with
the respective scaffold bays immediately adjacent to the connecting element.
[00157]   Figures 28D and 28E show a further embodiment of a connecting element with a pair
of connecting formations comprising generally C-shaped slotted brackets 111, similar to those
shown in Figures 27A to 27C, fixedly secured at predetermined oblique angles to a
substantially straight section of ledger bar 104, which defines the intermediate bridge section.
These C-shaped brackets or C-couplings 111 are adapted for direct connection to the V
shaped lugs 10 on the adjacent scaffold standards, as previously described.
[00158]   Figure 28F shows a variation on the embodiment of Figures 28D and 28E. Once
again, the interconnecting section of ledger bar 104 is substantially straight. In this case, the C
shaped slotted brackets or C-couplings 111 are secured in straight alignment with the
intermediate ledger bar 104. However, the slots 1 12 themselves are disposed at
predetermined oblique angles, to accommodate the oblique orientation of the adjoining
scaffold bays.
[00159]   In this embodiment, it should be understood that the functional elements of the
connecting formations are effectively defined by the slots 112 themselves, which are oriented
to ensure that the associated locking wedges 14 engage the respective V-lugs 10 on the
adjacent standards 2 in the appropriate orthogonal orientation. In that sense, the embodiment
of Figure 28F can be regarded as a functional equivalent of the embodiment of Figures 28D
and 28E, since in both cases, the connecting formations are secured such that the operative
slots 112 and locking wedges 14 are maintained at the desired oblique angle of orientation,

                                               - 32
relative to one another, for optimal engagement with the respective scaffold standards 2.
Hence, in the context of the present invention, in the arrangement of Figure 28F and similar
embodiments, the connecting formations should be regarded as being secured to the
intermediate bridge section at a predetermined oblique angle relative to one another,
notwithstanding the fact that the C-couplings 111 themselves are secured at a substantially
straight angle. In other words, the operative portions of these connecting formations are
effectively oriented obliquely, even though the C-coupling brackets themselves are not.
[00160]     Figure 28G and Figure 28H show plan and front elevation views respectively of a
further embodiment of a connecting element. In this embodiment, the connecting formations
and the intermediate bridge section comprise an assembly of three separate and distinct
components. Each connecting formation comprises a tube clamp 105 adapted for releasable
connection to the cylindrical part of the associated standard 2, substantially independently of
the V-lugs on the standard. The third component is a short ledger bar 104 that extends in a
predetermined orientation between the two tube clamps 105. In this way, the short ledger bar
in use defines the intermediate bridge section, but can be disconnected from the tube clamps
105 at either end.
[00161]     Each of the tube clamps has a single V-press fitting or V-lug 10' welded to it, which
avoids the need for the short ledger bar 104 to attach directly to the V-press fittings 10 on the
scaffold standards 2. Because the tube clamps 105 can be fitted in any rotational orientation
when connected to the respective standards, the V-press fittings 10' on the tube clamps 105
can be aligned with one another (although consequently misaligned with the V-press fittings 10
on the standards 2, which are essentially bypassed altogether in this embodiment).
[00162]    This means that the short ledger bar 104 no longer needs to be bent or curved
(although could be if desired), and the connection fittings on the opposite ends of the short
ledger bar 104 no longer need to be obliquely oriented with respect to each other (although
again could be if desired). Rather, the oblique angle between the adjacent scaffold bays is
effectively accommodated by mounting the tube clamps 105, and hence their associated V
press lugs 10', obliquely on the respective standards 2. That is, the V-press lugs 10' of the tube
clamps 105, which essentially define their directionality, are angled obliquely with respect to
the V-press lugs 10 of the standards 2, which essentially define their directionality, at a
predetermined angle which corresponds to the oblique angle between the adjoining scaffold
bays.

                                                 - 33
[00163]     In the embodiment of Figures 28G and 28H, the connection fittings on the ends of
the ledger bar are essentially the same as shown in Figure 1C. It should be noted in this
context that the locking wedges and corresponding slots at opposite ends of the short ledger
bar are configured such that upon secure engagement, a predetermined (substantially straight)
angle of connection is maintained between the ledger bar and the tube clamps at either end. In
this way, the predetermined degree of oblique angularity is maintained, to ensure the overall
rigidity, stability, dimensional consistency and structural integrity of the connection assembly.
[00164]     Figures 281 and 28J respectively show plan and front elevation views of a variation
on the embodiment of Figures 28G and 28H. In this embodiment, the ledger bar 104 is again
straight. However, the connection fittings on the ends of the ledger bar are in the form of C
shaped slotted brackets 111, secured in straight alignment with the intermediate ledger bar
104. In this case, the slots 1 12 are not disposed at predetermined oblique angles, but rather
are configured as straight slots substantially aligned with the longitudinal axis of the ledger bar.
The oblique angle between the adjacent scaffold bays is thus accommodated by the oblique
mounting of the tube clamps 105 (at predetermined angles with respect to the standards 2) as
described above in relation to Figures 28G and 28H.
[00165]     Once again, the locking wedges and corresponding slots at opposite ends of the
short ledger bar are configured such that upon secure engagement, a predetermined
(substantially straight) angle of connection is maintained between the ledger bar and the tube
clamps at either end, to ensure that the overall rigidity, stability, dimensional consistency and
structural integrity of the system are effectively maintained. However, in the embodiments of
Figures 28G to 28J, it will be appreciated that if required the ledger bars 104 can be
conveniently removed, while the associated tube clamps 105 (and hence their respective V
press fittings 10') remain in place, clamped to the scaffold standards 2.
[00166]     It will also be appreciated that the ability of the tube clamps to be mounted at
different heights on the respective standards, provides a convenient mechanism for
accommodating transitions or differentials in height between adjoining scaffold bays, which
might otherwise cause undesirable stresses or misalignments within the oblique connection
assembly or elsewhere in the scaffolding.
[00167]     Figures 29 to 32 show embodiments of the connecting elements adapted for use
with a locking-cup type coupling mechanism (as opposed to a V-press fitting). As shown in

                                                  - 34
Figures 29A and 31 A, the coupling mechanism has a lower cup 113 fixed (e.g. welded) at a
predetermined height on the standard.
[00168]    In the embodiment illustrated in Figures 29A to 29C, the connecting element has a
straight bar or tube 104 of predetermined fixed length. In this embodiment, the connecting
formations are in the form of a spacer or a blade-type member 114 arranged obliquely relative
to the tube, and thus each other. The oblique arrangement of the connecting formations
enables the oblique orientation between the adjacent first and second scaffold bays.
[00169]    Each blade 114 has a lower portion 115 extending below the tube to be received
within the lower cup 113 and an upper portion 116 configured to be engaged by a locking ring
117. A locking lug 1 18 is fixed to the standard, and the locking ring has a corresponding
bulged area 1 19 adapted to slide over the locking lug, whereafter rotation of the locking ring
brings the locking ring into secure locking engagement between the upper portion of the blade
and the locking lug (see Figure 29A and 30).
[00170]    Figure 30 shows the straight connecting element secured in placed, between
adjacent standards, by locking-cup type couplings.
[00171]    In the embodiment illustrated in Figures 31A to 31C, the connecting element has a
curved, bent or otherwise angled bar or tube 104 of predetermined fixed length. In this
embodiment, the connecting formations are again in the form of blade-type members 114, but
in this case are oriented perpendicularly to the respective end of the tube. The predetermined
curve or angle of the tube results in the blade members being arranged obliquely relative to
each other, to precisely accommodate the oblique orientation between the adjacent first and
second scaffold bays.
[00172]    Figure 32 shows the curved connecting element secured in placed, between
adjacent standards, by locking-cup couplings.
[00173]    The lower cup 113 of the locking-cup couplings is configured to receive two or more
(preferably three or four) blade or spacer members, whereby a connecting element, a transom,
and a ledger can be securely retained by a single lower cup and locking ring.
[00174]    Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the use of connecting elements
of predetermined fixed length, together with the fixed securing (e.g. welding) of the connecting
formations at a predetermined angle, provides significant advantages to the scaffold

                                                 - 35
connection assembly in terms of stability and dimensional accuracy as well as enhancing the
overall structural integrity of the assembly.
 [00175]    It will be appreciated that the invention in its various embodiments provides a safe,
simple, convenient, efficient, and secure method, apparatus and comprehensive system for
securely connecting scaffold bays at oblique angles and thereby permitting the construction of
scaffolding in a variety of non-orthogonal geometrical configurations including oblique
junctions, curves, contours and a wide variety of irregular profiles. This greatly facilitates the
erection of scaffolding around increasingly more complex architectural, building and civil
engineering structures, leading to increased flexibility and functionality, reduced cost and
 reduced risk.
 [00176]    Advantageously, the system is readily adaptable to a wide variety of proprietary
 modular scaffolding systems with minimal modification and can be readily adapted to comply
with current safety standards. In these and other respects, the invention represents both a
 practical and commercially significant improvement over the prior art.
 [00177]    Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will
 be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other
forms.

                                                 - 36
CLAIMS
1.        A scaffold connection assembly for use with modular scaffolding of the type formed
from a matrix of interconnected scaffold bays supported on a base, the connection assembly
being adapted to connect a first scaffold bay to a second scaffold bay, and including:- a first
connecting element including a first pair of connecting formations laterally spaced apart by a
predetermined first distance and adapted for connection to adjacent inner standards of the
respective first and second scaffold bays;
           a second connecting element including a second pair of connecting formations
respectively defining terminal ends of an intermediate bridge section and being laterally
spaced apart by a predetermined second distance, the second pair of connecting formations
being adapted for connection to adjacent outer standards of the respective first and second
scaffold bays;
           the first distance being different from the second distance, such that upon
engagement of the connection assembly between the first and second scaffold bays, the first
scaffold bay is oriented obliquely with respect to the second scaffold bay;
           wherein the outer standards of the corresponding first and second scaffold bays
include respective lugs of a V-press fitting, each of the lugs defining a generally V-shaped
aperture adapted for releasable engagement by a corresponding generally wedged shaped
locking pin, whereby upon engagement each of the locking pins extends downwardly through
the aperture of the respective lug so as releaseably to lock the corresponding connecting
formation to the respective outer standard;
           the lugs being aligned with the respective first and second scaffold bays and the
connecting formations of the second pair being fixedly secured to the bridge section at a
predetermined oblique angle relative to one another, such that upon engagement of the
second connecting element the connecting formations of the second pair are substantially
aligned with the respective lugs while accommodating the oblique orientation between the
adjoining first and second scaffold bays.
2.        A scaffold connection assembly according to claim 1, wherein each of the connecting
formations of the second pair includes a downwardly depending spigot adapted for releasable
engagement with a corresponding one of the apertures defined by the respective lug on the
adjacent outer standard of the corresponding first or second scaffold bay, each of the spigots
being securely locked in place upon engagement of the corresponding locking pin.
3.        A scaffold connection assembly according to claim 2, wherein the bridge section of
the second connecting element supports the spigots at the oblique angle relative to one

                                                - 37
another, whereby in use the spigots are substantially aligned with the respective lugs formed
on the adjacent outer standards, so as to accommodate the oblique orientation between the
adjoining first and second scaffold bays.
4.          A scaffold connection assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further
including; a pair of transom elements, each adapted to extend between the adjacent inner
standard and the adjacent outer standard of a respective one of the first and second scaffold
bays, the transom elements in use thereby defining a generally wedge-shaped gap formation
between adjacent sides of the adjoining first and second scaffold bays; and a wedge plate
adapted to extend generally between the transom elements thereby substantially to cover the
gap formation.
5.          A scaffold connection assembly according to claim 4, wherein each of said transom
elements is a double-sided transom element adapted to extend between the adjacent inner
standard and the adjacent outer standard of a respective one of the first and second scaffold
bays, each of the transom elements including a first longitudinal supporting ledge extending
laterally inwardly from the transom element to support the wedge plate, and a second
longitudinal supporting ledge extending laterally outwardly toward the adjacent scaffold bay to
support decking boards of the adjacent scaffold bay.
6.          A scaffold connection assembly according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein one
or more cantilevered supplementary support assembly are adapted for connection to the inner
or outer sides of the first or second scaffold bays, and/or to the inner or outer sides of the
connecting assembly.
7.          A scaffold connection assembly according to claim 6, including a lap plate adapted to
cover a lateral clearance space defined between adjacent supplementary support assemblies.
8.          A scaffold connection assembly according to claim 7, wherein the lap plate is
releasably mountable over the lateral clearance space.
9.          A supplementary support assembly for a modular scaffold system formed from a
matrix of interconnecting scaffold bays, the assembly including:
            a pair of spaced apart transoms adapted to be cantilevered outwardly from the
scaffold bays; and

                                               - 38
            one or more decking boards extending between the pair of transoms, thereby
providing a supplementary support platform.
10.        A support assembly according to claim 9, wherein the cantilevered transoms are
adapted for connection to the inner or outer sides of the scaffold bays, and/or to the inner or
outer sides of a connecting assembly of the scaffold system.
11.        A support assembly according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the support platform is
narrower than the scaffold bay or connecting assembly from which the cantilevered transoms
extend.
12.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the pair of
cantilevered transoms is configured to contain from one to five decking boards.
13.        A support assembly according to claim 12, wherein the effective length of each
transom is adjustable in discrete increments, by means of a movable board retaining bracket
and complementary adjustment holes formed in the cantilevered transoms.
14.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein each transom
has a respective connecting formation adapted for connection with an adjacent standard of the
scaffold system to which the transom is to be connected.
15.        A support assembly according to claim 14, wherein each connecting formation is
directly or indirectly connected to the respective transom.
16.        A support assembly according to claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the proximal ends of
the cantilevered transoms are adapted for engagement with V-press fittings on the scaffold
standards.
17.        A support assembly according to claim 16, wherein each transom has a main
support bar, the proximal end of which includes a downwardly depending spigot formation
adapted for engagement with the V-press fittings.
18.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 17, wherein the pair of
transoms include respective left-handed and right-handed cantilevered hop-up transom
elements, each hop-up transom including a main support bar in the form of an L-shaped

                                             - 39
channel section defining a lower board support flange, adapted to receive and locate the
appropriate number of hop-up platform decking boards.
19.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 18, wherein the pair of
cantilevered transoms is adapted to support a second support assembly such that the second
support assembly is cantilevered outwardly from the pair of transoms cantilevered from the
scaffold bays.
20.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 19, including at least one
supplementary support strut associated with each transom, the supplementary support strut
extending from the respective transom at one end and positively engaging the respective
scaffold standard at its other end.
21.        A support assembly according to claim 20, wherein the supplementary support strut
includes an inclined support element positioned to extend downwardly at an angle, for
engagement with the standard below the connecting formation, such that the cantilevered
transom bar is supported in the horizontal position.
22.        A support assembly according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the supplementary
support struts include one or more intermediate bracing elements extending between the
supplementary support strut and the respective cantilevered transom.
23.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the
supplementary support struts form a hop-up extension module in the form of a relatively heavy
duty cantilevered truss arrangement, with multiple connecting formations on each side.
24.        A support assembly according to claim 23, wherein the connecting formations
formed on the proximal side facilitate engagement of the transoms with the standards, and
wherein the connecting formations on the distal end are adapted to support a second support
assembly, to thereby provide a composite hop-up configuration.
25.        A support assembly according to any one of claims 9 to 24, wherein the distal end of
one or both hop-up transom elements can be trimmed or otherwise shaped to avoid fouling
and to ensure a close fitting alignment between the two adjacent distal ends.

                                                 - 40
26.        A lap plate for a modular scaffold system formed from a matrix of interconnecting
scaffold bays, the lap plate including:
            a body mountable to the scaffold system, the body being of a predetermined size to
substantially cover a lateral space defined between a pair of adjacent hop-ups mounted to
adjacent bays of the scaffold system; and
            engaging means for releasably engaging the body with the scaffold system, wherein
the engaging means is configured so as to facilitate locating, and captively retaining, the body
in a desired position relative to the lateral space, in use.
27.        A lap plate according to claim 26, wherein the engaging formation includes a pair of
mutually opposed cut-outs at one end of the body of the lap plate.
28.        A lap plate according to claim 27, wherein each cut-out is sized to enable close
fitting engagement with a respective standard of the scaffold system.
29.        A lap plate according to claim 27 or claim 28, wherein each cut-out has a C-shaped
or scalloped formation.
30.        A lap plate according to any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein the cut-outs are
integrally formed, and/or fabricated by cutting, pressing, stamping, drilling, bending, moulding
or the like.
31.        A lap plate according to any one of claims 27 to 30, wherein the two cut-outs result in
a generally T-shaped formation at that end of the body of the panel, the resulting T-shaped
formation preventing, when the lap plate is in position, undesired sliding movement of the
panel which would expose the lateral space it is covering.
32.        A lap plate according to claim 31, wherein the two cut-outs enable engagement with
two separate standards of the adjacent scaffold bays such that the body is restrained from
rotational movement about either standard, as well lateral movement between the standards.
33.        A lap plate according to 31 or claim 32, wherein the arms of the T-shaped formation
bear against the standards to prevent axial or longitudinal movement of the panel in one
direction, whilst the lower limbs of the C-shaped formations prevent axial or longitudinal
movement in the opposite direction.

                                                - 41
34.        A lap plate according to any one of claims 26 to 33, wherein the engaging formation
defines a twist-lock engagement mechanism, whereby the lap plate must be inclined toward
the vertical orientation, by rotation about a generally longitudinal axis of the plate, in order to
be installed or removed and, once engaged with the adjacent standards in a substantially
horizontal orientation, the plate cannot be inadvertently removed or dislodged from the
intended position.
35.        A lap plate according to any one of claims 26 to 34, wherein the body and the
engaging means of the lap plate are integrally formed as a one-piece unit.
36.        A lap plate according to claim 26 which is configured to extend between adjacent
scaffold bays that are spaced apart, and thereby to cover the respective clearance space
defined between the adjacent bays, whether oriented orthogonally or obliquely.
37.        A lap plate according to any one of claims 26 to 36, wherein an engagement means
is formed at opposite ends of the lap plate, for engagement with the adjacent inner standards
and outer standards respectively.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
