                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention is in the field of immunotherapy, in particular tumor immunotherapy.
The present invention provides pharmaceutical formulations for delivering RNA to antigen
presenting cells such as dendrite cells (DCs) in the spleen after systemic administration. In
particular, the formulations described herein enable to induce an immune response after
systemic administration of antigen-coding RNA.

                                                 1
RNA FORMULATION FOR IMMUNOTHERAPY
This is a divisional of 2013242512, which is the Australian National Phase of International
Patent Application No. PCT/EP2013/00902, which claims priority from European Patent
Application      No.    PCT/EP2012/001319        entitled    "RNA       FORMULATION        FOR
IMMUNOTHERAPY" filed on 26 March 2012. The entire contents of that application are
hereby incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention is in the field of immunotherapy, in particular tumor immunotherapy.
The present invention relates to the provision of pharmaceutical formulations for delivering
RNA with high selectivity to antigen presenting cells such as dendrite cells (DCs) in the
spleen after systemic administration. In particular, the formulations described herein enable to
induce an immune response after systemic administration of antigen-coding RNA.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Nucleic acids like DNA, siRNA or RNA are of interest for various therapeutic interventions
in patients. A relatively new immunological approach in tumor therapy is based on tumor
antigen expression by coding RNA in antigen presenting cells (APCs) in order to induce a T
cell response to the tumor (Weide, B. et al. (2008) Journal of Immunotherapy 31(2): 180-188;
Weide, B. et al. (2009) Journal of Immunotherapy 32(5): 498-507; Kreiter, S. et al. (2010)
Cancer Res 70(22): 9031-9040; Kuhn, A. N. et al. (2010) Gene Ther 17(8): 961-971). Target
cells for such intervention are dendritic cells (DCs) which reside, for example, in the lymph
nodes (LNs) or in the spleen.
In order to provide sufficient uptake of the RNA by DCs, local administration of RNA to
lymph nodes has proven to be successful. However, such local administration requires
specific skills by the physician. Therefore, there is a need for RNA formulations which can be
administered     systemically,   for  example    intravenously    (i.v.), subcutaneously  (s.c.),
intradermally (i.d.) or by inhalation. From the literature, various approaches for systemic
administration of nucleic acids are known. In non-viral gene transfer, cationic liposomes are
used to induce DNA/RNA          condensation and to facilitate cellular uptake. The cationic

                                                  2
liposomes usually consist of a cationic lipid, like DOTAP, and one or more helper lipids, like
DOPE. So-called 'lipoplexes' can be formed from the cationic (positively charged) liposomes
and the anionic (negatively charged) nucleic acid. In the simplest case, the lipoplexes form
spontaneously by mixing the nucleic acid with the liposomes with a certain mixing protocol,
however various other protocols may be applied. Electrostatic interactions between the
positively charged liposomes and the negatively charged nucleic acid are the driving force for
the lipoplex formation. Besides the lipid composition, the charge ratio between cationic and
anionic moieties plays a key role for efficient condensation and transfection. Generally, an
excess positive charge of the lipoplexes is considered necessary for efficient transfection
(Templeton, N. S. et al. (1997) Nature Biotechnology 15(7): 647-652; Zhdanov, R. I. et al.
(2002) Bioelectrochemistry 58(1): 53-64; Templeton, N. S. (2003) Current Medicinal
Chemistry 10(14):      1279-1287). Most natural membranes are negatively charged, and
therefore the attractive electrostatic interaction between the positively charged lipoplexes and
the negatively charged biomembrane may play a role in cell binding and uptake of the
lipoplexes. Typical ranges of +/- ratios which are considered optimal for transfection are
between 2 and 4. With lower excess positive charge, the transfection efficacy goes drastically
down to virtually zero. Unfortunately, for positively charged liposomes and lipoplexes
elevated toxicity has been reported, which can be a problem for the application of such
preparations as pharmaceutical products.
The above described lipolexes have proven to enable transfection in various organs. The
detailed organ distribution of expression depends on the formulation and administration
parameters (lipid composition, size, administration route) in a complex manner. So far,
selective expression in a given target organ or cellular moiety, avoiding expression in off
target organs, could not be realized sufficiently. Using luciferase DNA or RNA as a reporter,
for example, transfection in lung, liver, spleen, kidneys, and heart has been reported.
Avoiding targeting of lung and liver has proven to be particularly difficult, because, in many
cases, lung and liver targeting are predominant. Lung has a very large surface and it is the first
organ which the i.v. injected compounds pass after administration. Liver is a typical target
organ for liposomes and formulations with lipophilic compounds like the lipids present in the
lipoplexes.
For RNA based immunotherapy, lung or liver targeting can be detrimental, because of the risk
of an immune response against these organs. Therefore, for such therapy, a formulation with

high selectivity only for the DCs, such as in the spleen is required. Certain ligands have been
proposed to improve targeting selectivity. For example, liposomes which comprise mannose
functionalized lipids are considered to improve macrophage targeting. However, such
components make the formulations more complex, which makes practical pharmaceutical
development more complicated. Furthermore, the selectivity is limited and a certain fraction
of the liposomes is still taken up by other organs. Another problem is serum interactions and
RNA degradation in serum, which is favored by positively charged lipoplexes. Also, for
therapeutic applicability, requirements for pharmaceutical products such as chemical and
physical stability, need to be fulfilled. In addition, products for intraperitoneal application
need to be sterile and have to fulfill certain requirements regarding particle characteristics.
Additionally, the products have to be suitable for manufacturing.
Summarizing, the problem of development of an injectable RNA formulation with high spleen
selectivity, which fulfills the criteria for products for application to patients, still needs to be
solved.
The present invention provides a solution to the above described problem. According to the
invention, nanoparticulate RNA formulations with defined particle size are provided wherein
the net charge of the particles is close to zero or negative. In one particularly preferred
embodiment, said RNA nanoparticles are RNA lipoplexes. Surprisingly it was found that
electro-neutral or negatively charged lipoplexes from RNA and liposomes lead to substantial
RNA expression in spleen DCs after systemic administration. A strong expression of reporter
gene in the target cells (spleen) was determined while the expression in other organs was low.
Furthermore, a strong immune response against a model antigen could be induced. This was
unexpected, because usually, excess positive charge is considered a prerequisite for successful
uptake and expression. Here we have found that, although the absolute amount of expression
decreases with decreasing excess of positive charge, the expression is still sufficiently high to
provide therapeutic efficacy of the lipoplexes after systemic administration.
According to the invention it was possible to form the lipoplexes with a well-defined particle
size distribution profile as measured by dynamic light scattering and with low fraction of
subvisible particles, which is required for intravenous administration to patients. If formed by
incubation of liposomes with RNA by self-assembly, the particle size of the original
liposomes is only little affected, and no undesired moieties of large aggregates are found.

                                               4
Different sizes can be obtained by selecting the size of the precursor liposomes and the
mixing conditions. This was surprising because usually formation of large aggregates on
incubation of RNA with cationic liposomes is observed. This aggregate formation is one
major obstacle for developing lipoplex formulations which are acceptable for intravenous or
subcutaneous administration. The particles were stable for at least 24 hours and did not tend
to aggregate over time. The particles could be frozen and thawed without formation of
aggregates, while maintaining the original particle size profile, and maintaining the biological
activity. The particles could be lyophilized and reconstituted with water without formation of
aggregates, while maintaining the original particle size profile and maintaining the biological
activity. The particles can be manufactured by different protocols which are scalable and
which can be performed under controlled conditions. With such properties the lipoplex
formulations of the invention fulfill important requirements for pharmaceutical formulations
for application to patients, in terms of particle size distribution profile and stability.
Furthermore, compared to positively charged lipopexes, the RNA nanoparticles described
herein are expected to be less toxic and to display less undesired serum interactions. In
particular, the formulations are suitable for parenteral administration, including intravenous
and subcutaneous administration.
DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
Summary of the invention
Immunotherapeutic strategies are promising options for the treatment of e.g. infectious
diseases and cancer diseases. The identification of a growing number of pathogen- and tumor
associated antigens (also termed tumor antigens herein) led to a broad collection of suitable
targets for immunotherapy.
The present invention generally embraces the immunotherapeutic treatment of diseases by
targeting diseased cells. The invention provides for the selective eradication of cells that
express an antigen thereby minimizing adverse effects to normal cells not expressing said
antigens. Thus, preferred diseases for a therapy are those in which one or more antigens are
expressed such as cancer diseases or infectious diseases.

                                                  5
The present invention aims at specifically targeting antigen-expressing cells by active
immunization inducing and expanding T cells in the patient, which are able to specifically
recognize and kill diseased cells. Specifically, the present invention enables selective
incorporation of an antigen represented as RNA into antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic
cells in vivo. The antigen may be processed to produce a peptide partner for the MHC
molecule or may be presented without the need for further processing, if it can bind to MHC
molecules. Preference is given to administration forms in which the complete antigen is
processed in vivo by antigen-presenting cells, since this may also produce T helper cell
responses which are needed for an effective immune response. Thus, the compositions
provided according to the invention when administered to a patent provide one or more MHC
presented epitopes for stimulating, priming and/or expanding T cells directed against cells
expressing antigens from which the MHC presented epitopes are derived. Accordingly, the
compositions described herein are preferably capable of inducing or promoting a cellular
response, preferably cytotoxic T cell activity, against a disease characterized by presentation
of antigens with class I MHC.
In particular, the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
nanoparticles which comprise RNA encoding at least one antigen, wherein:
(i)     the number of positive charges in the nanoparticles does not exceed the number of
negative charges in the nanoparticles and/or
(ii)    the nanoparticles have a neutral or net negative charge and/or
(iii)   the charge ratio of positive charges to negative charges in the nanoparticles is 1.4:1 or
less and/or
(iv)    the zeta potential of the nanoparticles is 0 or less.
Preferably, the nanoparticles described herein are colloidally stable for at least 2 hours in the
sense that no aggregation, precipitation or increase of size and polydispersity index by more
than 30% as measured by dynamic light scattering takes place
In one embodiment, the charge ratio of positive charges to negative charges in the
nanoparticles is between 1.4:1 and 1:8, preferably between 1.2:1 and 1:4, e.g. between 1:1 and
1:3 such as between 1:1.2 and 1:2, 1:1.2 and 1:1.8, 1:1.3 and 1:1.7, in particular between 1:1.4
and 1:1.6, such as about 1:1.5.

                                                 6
In one embodiment, the zeta potential of the nanoparticles is -5 or less, -10 or less, -15 or less,
-20 or less or -25 or less. In various embodiments, the zeta potential of the nanoparticles is -35
or higher, -30 or higher or -25 or higher. In one embodiment, the nanoparticles have a zeta
potential from 0 mV to -50 mV, preferably 0 mV to -40 mV or -10 mV to -30 mV.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles comprise at least one lipid. In one embodiment, the
nanoparticles comprise at least one cationic lipid. The cationic lipid can be monocationic or
polycationic. Any cationic amphiphilic molecule, eg, a molecule which comprises at least one
hydrophilic and lipophilic moiety is a cationic lipid within the meaning of the present
invention. In one embodiment, the positive charges are contributed by the at least one cationic
lipid and the negative charges are contributed by the RNA. In one embodiment, the
nanoparticles comprises at least one helper lipid. The helper lipid may be a neutral or an
anionic lipid. The helper lipid may be a natural lipid, such as a phospholipid or an analogue of
a natural lipid, or a fully synthetic lipid, or lipid-like molecule, with no similarities with
natural lipids. In one embodiment, the cationic lipid and/or the helper lipid is a bilayer
forming lipid.
In one embodiment, the at least one cationic lipid comprises 1,2-di-O-octadecenyl-3
trimethylammonium propane (DOTMA) or analogs or derivatives thereof and/or 1,2-dioleoyl
3-trimethylammonium-propane (DOTAP) or analogs or derivatives thereof.
In one embodiment, the at least one helper lipid comprises 1,2-di-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-sn
glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (DOPE) or analogs or derivatives thereof, cholesterol (Chol)
or analogs or derivatives thereof and/or 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC) or
analogs or derivatives thereof
In one embodiment, the molar ratio of the at least one cationic lipid to the at least one helper
lipid is from 10:0 to 3:7, preferably 9:1 to 3:7, 4:1 to 1:2, 4:1 to 2:3, 7:3 to 1:1, or 2:1 to 1:1,
preferably about 1:1. In one embodiment, in this ratio, the molar amount of the cationic lipid
results from the molar amount of the cationic lipid multiplied by the number of positive
charges in the cationic lipid.
In various embodiments, the lipids are not functionalized such as functionalized by mannose,
histidine and/or imidazole, the nanoparticles do not comprise a targeting ligand such as

                                                 7
mannose functionalized lipids and/or the nanoparticles do not comprise one or more of the
following: pH dependent compounds, cationic polymers such as polymers containing histidine
and/or polylysine, wherein the polymers may optionally be PEGylated and/or histidylated, or
                         2+
divalent ions such as Ca
In various embodiments, the RNA nanoparticles may comprise peptides, preferentially with a
molecular weight of up to 2500 Da.
In the nanoparticles described herein the lipid may form a complex with and/or may
encapsulate the RNA. In one embodiment, the nanoparticles comprise a lipoplex or liposome.
In one embodiment, the lipid is comprised in a vesicle encapsulating said RNA. The vesicle
may be a multilamellar vesicle, an unilamellar vesicle, or a mixture thereof. The vesicle may
be a liposome.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and DOPE in a
molar ratio of 10:0 to 1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and wherein
the charge ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.8:2 to
0.8:2, more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even more
preferably about 1.2:2.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and Cholesterol in
a molar ratio of 10:0 to 1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and
wherein the charge ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is
1.8:2 to 0.8:2, more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even
more preferably about 1.2:2.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTAP and DOPE in a
molar ratio of 10:0 to 1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and wherein
the charge ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.8:2 to
0.8:2, more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even more
preferably about 1.2:2.

                                               8
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and DOPE in a
molar ratio of 2:1 to 1:2, preferably 2:1 to 1:1, and wherein the charge ratio of positive
charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.4:1 or less.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and cholesterol in a
molar ratio of 2:1 to 1:2, preferably 2:1 to 1:1, and wherein the charge ratio of positive
charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.4:1 or less.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTAP and DOPE in a
molar ratio of 2:1 to 1:2, preferably 2:1 to 1:1, and wherein the charge ratio of positive
charges in DOTAP to negative charges in the RNA is 1.4:1 or less.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles have an avarage diameter in the range of from about 50
nm to about 1000 nm, preferably from about 50 nm to about 400 nm, preferably about 100 nm
to about 300 nm such as about 150 nm to about 200 nm. In one embodiment, the nanoparticles
have a diameter in the range of about 200 to about 700 nm, about 200 to about 600 nm,
preferably about 250 to about 550 nm, in particular about 300 to about 500 nm or about 200 to
about 400 nm.
In one embodiment, the polydispersity index of the nanoparticles described herein as
measured by dynamic light scattering is 0.5 or less, preferably 0.4 or less or even more
preferably 0.3 or less.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles described herein are obtainable by one or more of the
following: (i) incubation of liposomes in an aqueous phase with the RNA in an aqueous
phase, (ii) incubation of the lipid dissolved in an organic, water miscible solvent, such as
ethanol, with the RNA in aqueous solution, (iii) reverse phase evaporation technique, (iv)
freezing and thawing of the product, (v) dehydration and rehydration of the product, (vi)
lyophilization and rehydration of the of the product, or (vii) spray drying and rehydration of
the product.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles are produced by a process comprising a step of
incubating the RNA with bivalent cations preferably at a concentration of between 0.1 mM to
5 mM such as 0.1 mM to 4 mM or 0.3 mM to 1 mM prior to incorporation into said

                                                  9
nanoparticles   and/or by incubating the RNA with monovalent ions preferably at a
concentration of between 1 mM to 500 mM such as 100 mM to 200 mM or 130 mM to 170
mM prior to incorporation into said nanoparticles and/or by incubating the RNA with buffers
prior to incorporation into said nanoparticles.
In one embodiment, after incubation of the bivalent cations to RNA a step of dilution by
adding liposomes and/or other aqueous phases by at least a factor of more than 1.5, preferably
by a factor of more than 2, or by a factor of more than 5 is involved.
In one embodiment, the bivalent cations are calcium ions, where the final concentration of
said calcium ions is less than 4 mM, preferably less than 3 mM and even more preferably 2.2
mM or less.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles described herein are produced by a process comprising
a step of extruding and/or a step of filtration and/or a step of lyophilizing the nanoparticles.
In one embodiment, after systemic administration of the nanoparticles, RNA expression in the
spleen occurs. In one embodiment, after systemic administration of the nanoparticles, no or
essentially no RNA expression in the lung and/or liver occurs. In one embodiment, after
systemic administration of the nanoparticles, RNA expression in the spleen is at least 5-fold,
preferably at least 8-fold, preferably at least 10-fold, preferably at least 20-fold, preferably at
least 50-fold, preferably at least 100-fold, preferably at least 1000-fold or even more the
amount of RNA expression in the lung. In one embodiment, after systemic administration of
the nanoparticles, RNA expression in antigen presenting cells, preferably professional antigen
presenting cells in the spleen occurs.
In one embodiment, the nanoparticles when administered systemically target or accumulate in
the spleen. Preferably, the nanoparticles when administered systemically deliver the RNA to
antigen presenting cells, preferably professional antigen presenting cells such as dendritic
cells and/or macrophages in the spleen. Preferably the nanoparticles release the RNA at the
target organ or tissue and/or enter cells at the target organ or tissue. Preferably, the target
organ or tissue is spleen and the cells at the target organ or tissue are antigen presenting cells
such as dendritic cells. In one embodiment, the nanoparticles when administered systemically
do not or do not essentially target or accumulate in the lung and/or liver. In one embodiment,

                                                 10
the amount of the nanoparticles targeting or accumulating in the spleen is at least 5-fold,
preferably at least 8-fold, preferably at least 10-fold, preferably at least 20-fold, preferably at
least 50-fold, preferably at least 100-fold, preferably at least 1000-fold or even more the
amount targeting or accumulating in the lung.
According    to   the   invention,    systemic   administration   is preferably     by   parenteral
administration, preferably     by   intravenous   administration, subcutaneous      administration,
intradermal administration or intraarterial administration.
The antigen encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein preferably
is a disease-associated antigen or elicts an immune response against a disease-associated
antigen or cells expressing a disease-associated antigen.
The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may further comprise one or more
pharmaceutically    acceptable    carriers, diluents   and/or   excipients.  The pharmaceutical
composition of the invention may further comprise at least one adjuvant.
The pharmaceutical       composition of the invention may be formulated              for systemic
administration.
The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be used for inducing an immune
response, in particular an immune response against a disease-associated antigen or cells
expressing a disease-associated antigen, such as an immune response against cancer.
Accordingly, the pharmaceutical composition may be used for prophylactic and/or therapeutic
treatment of a disease involving a disease-associated antigen or cells expressing a disease
associated antigen, such as cancer. Preferably said immune response is a T cell response. In
one embodiment, the disease-associated antigen is a tumor antigen.
In one embodiment, the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein does not
comprise pseudouridine residues and preferably does not comprise modified nucleosides.
The present invention also relates to a method for delivering an antigen to antigen presenting
cells, preferably professional antigen presenting cells such as dendritic             cells and/or
macrophages in the spleen or expressing an antigen in antigen presenting cells, preferably

                                                11
professional antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells and/or macrophages in the spleen
comprising administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition of the invention.
The present invention also relates to a method for inducing an immune response, preferably
an immune response against cancer, in a subject comprising administering to the subject a
pharmaceutical composition of the invention.
The present invention also relates to a method for stimulating, priming and/or expanding T
cells in a subject comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition of the
invention.
The present invention also relates to a method of treating or preventing a disease involving an
antigen, preferably a cancer disease, in a subject comprising administering to the subject a
pharmaceutical composition of the invention.
In the above aspects, the disease may be tumor growth and/or tumor metastasis. Accordingly,
the present invention also relates to a method of treating or preventing tumor growth and/or
tumor metastasis in a subject that has or is at risk of developing tumors and/or tumor
metastases comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition of the
invention.
In one aspect, the invention also provides the agents and compositions described herein for
use in the methods of treatment described herein.
The present invention also relates to particles as set forth herein.
The present invention also relates to a method for producing RNA-containing nanoparticles
comprising the steps of: (a) providing RNA formulated in sodium chloride solution and (b)
adding liposomes to the RNA. The sodium chloride solution may be an aqueous solution.
Water may be used for preparing the sodium chloride solution and in one embodiment may be
the only solvent used. In one embodiment, the sodium chloride solution contains about 50 to
about 300 mM, preferably about 100 to about 200 mM, preferably about 150 mM sodium
chloride. In one embodiment, the sodium chloride solution is an isotonic sodium chloride
solution. The liposomes may be formulated in water. In one embodiment, the liposomes are

                                                12
added to the RNA by injection of the liposomes into the RNA formulation. The nanoparticles
produced according to the above method may be nanoparticles as set forth herein.
Other features and advantages of the instant invention will be apparent from the following
detailed description and claims.
Detailed description of the invention
Although the present invention is described in detail below, it is to be understood that this
invention is not limited to the particular methodologies, protocols and reagents described
herein as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of
the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined
otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly
understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
In the following, the elements of the present invention will be described. These elements are
listed with specific embodiments, however, it should be understood that they may be
combined in any manner and in any number to create additional embodiments. The variously
described examples and preferred embodiments should not be construed to limit the present
invention to only the explicitly described embodiments. This description should be
understood to support and encompass embodiments which combine the explicitly described
embodiments with any number of the disclosed and/or preferred elements. Furthermore, any
permutations and combinations of all described elements in this application should be
considered disclosed by the description of the present application unless the context indicates
otherwise.
Preferably, the terms used herein are defined as described in "A multilingual glossary of
biotechnological terms: (IUPAC Recommendations)", H.G.W. Leuenberger, B. Nagel, and H.
Kblbl, Eds., (1995) Helvetica Chimica Acta, CH-4010 Basel, Switzerland.
The practice of the present invention will employ, unless otherwise indicated, conventional
methods of biochemistry, cell biology, immunology, and recombinant DNA techniques which

                                                   13
are explained in the literature in the field (cf., e.g., Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual,
2 "1 Edition, J. Sambrook et al. eds., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor 1989).
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated member, integer or step or group of members,
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other member, integer or step or group of
members, integers or steps although in some embodiments such other member, integer or step
or group of members, integers or steps may be excluded, i.e. the subject-matter consists in the
inclusion of a stated member, integer or step or group of members, integers or steps. The
terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar reference used in the context of describing the
invention (especially in the context of the claims) are to be construed to cover both the
singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context.
Recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of
referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless otherwise
indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it were
individually recited herein.
All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise
indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all
examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as"), provided herein is intended merely to
better illustrate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention
otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any
non-claimed element essential to the practice of the invention.
Several documents are cited throughout the text of this specification. Each of the documents
cited herein (including all patents, patent applications, scientific publications, manufacturer's
specifications, instructions, etc.), whether supra or infra, are hereby incorporated by reference
in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not
entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.
The present invention describes agents and compositions that upon administration induce an
immune response, in particular a cellular immune response, directed against a disease-

                                                14
associated antigen or cells expressing a disease-associated antigen such as cancer cells. In
particular, the present invention envisions the use of RNA encoding antigenic proteins or
peptides (also termed "antigen" herein) inducing an immune response, in particular a T cell
response, against the disease-associated antigen or cells expressing the disease-associated
antigen. These antigenic proteins or peptides may comprise a sequence essentially
corresponding to or being identical to the sequence of the disease-associated antigen or one or
more fragments thereof In one embodiment, the antigenic protein or peptide comprises the
sequence of an MHC presented peptide derived from the disease-associated antigen.
Immunisation with RNA encoding intact or substantially intact disease-associated antigen or
fragments thereof such as MHC class I and class II peptides makes it possible to elicit a MHC
class I and/or a class II type response and thus, stimulate T cells such as CD8+ cytotoxic T
lymphocytes which are capable of lysing diseased cells and/or CD4+ T cells. Such
immunization may also elicit a humoral immune response (B cell response) resulting in the
production of antibodies against the antigen. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical composition of
the present invention may be used in genetic vaccination, wherein an immune response is
stimulated by introduction into a subject a suitable RNA molecule which codes for an
antigenic protein or peptide. The agents and compositions disclosed herein may be used as a
therapeutic or prophylactic vaccine for the treatment or prevention of a disease such as a
disease as disclosed herein. In one embodiment, a disease-associated antigen is a tumor
antigen. In this embodiment, the agents and compositions described herein may be useful in
treating cancer or cancer metastasis. Preferably, the diseased organ or tissue is characterized
by diseased cells such as cancer cells expressing a disease-associated antigen and preferably
presenting the disease-associated antigen in the context of MHC molecules.
The term "immune response" refers to an integrated bodily response to an antigen or a cell
expressing an antigen and preferably refers to a cellular immune response or a cellular as well
as     a     humoral     immune       response.    The      immune     response     may       be
protective/preventive/prophylactic and/or therapeutic.
"Inducing an immune response" may mean that there was no immune response against a
particular antigen or a cell expressing an antigen before induction, but it may also mean that
there was a certain level of immune response against a particular antigen or a cell expressing
an antigen before induction and after induction said immune response is enhanced. Thus,
"inducing an immune response" also includes "enhancing an immune response". Preferably,

                                                 15
after inducing an immune response in a subject, said subject is protected from developing a
disease such as an infectious disease or a cancer disease or the disease condition is
ameliorated by inducing an immune response. For example, an immune response against a
viral antigen may be induced in a patient having a viral disease or in a subject being at risk of
developing a viral disease. For example, an immune response against a tumor antigen may be
induced in a patient having a cancer disease or in a subject being at risk of developing a
cancer disease. Inducing an immune response in this case may mean that the disease condition
of the subject is ameliorated, that the subject does not develop metastases, or that the subject
being at risk of developing a cancer disease does not develop a cancer disease.
A "cellular immune response", a "cellular response", a "cellular response against an antigen"
or a similar term is meant to include a cellular response directed to cells expressing an antigen
and being characterized by presentation of an antigen with class I or class II MHC. The
cellular response relates to cells called T cells or T lymphocytes which act as either "helpers"
or "killers". The helper T cells (also termed CD4+ T cells) play a central role by regulating the
immune response and the killer cells (also termed cytotoxic T cells, cytolytic T cells, CD8* T
cells or CTLs) kill diseased cells such as infected cells or cancer cells, preventing the
production of more diseased cells. In preferred embodiments, the present invention involves
the stimulation of an anti-tumor CTL response against cancer cells expressing one or more
tumor antigens and preferably presenting such tumor antigens with class I MHC.
According to the present invention, the term "antigen" comprises any molecule, preferably a
peptide or protein, which comprises at least one epitope that will elicit an immune response
and/or against which an immune response is directed. Preferably, an antigen in the context of
the present invention is a molecule which, optionally after processing, induces an immune
response, which is preferably specific for the antigen or cells expressing the antigen. In
particular, an "antigen" relates to a molecule which, optionally after processing, is presented
by MHC molecules and reacts specifically with T lymphocytes (T cells).
Thus, an antigen or fragments thereof should be recognizable by a T cell receptor. Preferably,
the antigen or fragment if recognized by a T cell receptor is able to induce in the presence of
appropriate co-stimulatory signals, clonal expansion of the T cell carrying the T cell receptor
specifically recognizing the antigen or fragment. In the context of the embodiments of the
present invention, the antigen or fragment is preferably presented by a cell, preferably by an

                                                16
antigen presenting cell and/or a diseased cell, in the context of MHC molecules, which results
in an immune response against the antigen or cells expressing the antigen.
According to the present invention, any suitable antigen is envisioned which is a candidate for
an immune response, wherein the immune response is preferably a cellular immune response.
An antigen is preferably a product which corresponds to or is derived from a naturally
occurring antigen. Such naturally occurring antigens may include or may be derived from
allergens, viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites and other infectious agents and pathogens or an
antigen may also be a tumor antigen. According to the present invention, an antigen may
correspond to a naturally occurring product, for example, a viral protein, or a part thereof.
The term "pathogen" relates to pathogenic microorganisms and comprises viruses, bacteria,
fungi, unicellular organisms, and parasites. Examples for pathogenic viruses are human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes virus (HSV), hepatitis A
virus (HAV), HBV, HCV, papilloma virus, and human T-lymphotrophic virus (HTLV).
Unicellular organisms comprise plasmodia, trypanosomes, amoeba, etc.
The term "disease-associated antigen" refers to all antigens that are of pathological
significance and includes "tumor antigens". According to the invention it is desired to induce
an immune response to a disease-associated antigen or cells expressing a disease-associated
antigen and preferably presenting a disease-associated antigen in the context of MHC
molecules. Preferably, a disease-associated antigen is a naturally occurring antigen. In one
embodiment, a disease-associated antigen is expressed in a diseased cell and preferably
presented by MHC molecules of the cell.
An antigen encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein should
induce an immune response which is directed against the disease-associated antigen to be
targeted or cells expressing the disease-associated antigen to be targeted. Thus, an antigen
encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein may correspond to or
may comprise a disease-associated antigen or one or more immunogenic fragments thereof
such as one or more MHC binding peptides of the disease-associated antigen. Thus, the
antigen encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein may be a
recombinant antigen.

                                                  17
The tenn "recombinant" in the context of the present invention means "made through genetic
engineering". Preferably, a "recombinant object" such as a recombinant nucleic acid in the
context of the present invention is not occurring naturally.
The term "naturally occurring" as used herein refers to the fact that an object can be found in
nature. For example, a peptide or nucleic acid that is present in an organism (including
viruses) and can be isolated from a source in nature and which has not been intentionally
modified by man in the laboratory is naturally occurring.
In a preferred embodiment, an antigen may be a tumor antigen, i.e., a constituent of cancer
cells such as a protein or peptide expressed in a cancer cell which may be derived from the
cytoplasm, the cell surface or the cell nucleus, in particular those which primarily occur
intracellularly or as surface antigens on cancer cells. For example, tumor antigens include the
carcinoembryonal antigen, al-fetoprotein, isoferritin, and fetal sulphoglycoprotein, a2-H
ferroprotein and y-fetoprotein. According to the present invention, a tumor antigen preferably
comprises any antigen which is expressed in and optionally characteristic with respect to type
and/or expression level for tumors or cancers as well as for tumor or cancer cells. In the
context of the present invention, the term "tumor antigen" or "tumor-associated antigen"
preferably relates to proteins that are under normal conditions specifically expressed in a
limited number of tissues and/or organs or in specific developmental stages, for example, the
tumor antigen may be under normal conditions specifically expressed in stomach tissue,
preferably in the gastric mucosa, in reproductive organs, e.g., in testis, in trophoblastic tissue,
e.g., in placenta, or in germ line cells, and are expressed or aberrantly expressed in one or
more tumor or cancer tissues. In this context, "a limited number" preferably means not more
than 3, more preferably not more than 2 or 1. The tumor antigens in the context of the present
invention include, for example, differentiation         antigens, preferably    cell type specific
differentiation antigens, i.e., proteins that are under normal conditions specifically expressed
in a certain cell type at a certain differentiation stage, cancer/testis antigens, i.e., proteins that
are under normal conditions specifically expressed in testis and sometimes in placenta, and
germ line specific antigens. In the context of the present invention, the tumor antigen is
preferably not or only rarely expressed in normal tissues. Preferably, the tumor antigen or the
aberrant expression of the tumor antigen identifies cancer cells. In the context of the present
invention, the tumor antigen that is expressed by a cancer cell in a subject, e.g., a patient

                                                 18
suffering from a cancer disease, is preferably a self-protein in said subject. In preferred
embodiments, the tumor antigen in the context of the present invention is expressed under
normal conditions specifically in a tissue or organ that is non-essential, i.e., tissues or organs
which when damaged by the immune system do not lead to death of the subject, or in organs
or structures of the body which are not or only hardly accessible by the immune system.
Preferably, the amino acid sequence of the tumor antigen is identical between the tumor
antigen which is expressed in normal tissues and the tumor antigen which is expressed in
cancer tissues. Preferably, a tumor antigen is presented by a cancer cell in which it is
expressed.
Examples for tumor antigens that may be useful in the present invention are p53, ART-4,
BAGE, beta-catenin/m, Bcr-abL CAMEL, CAP-1, CASP-8, CDC27/m, CDK4/m, CEA, the
cell surface proteins of the claudin family, such as CLAUDIN-6, CLAUDIN-18.2                   and
CLAUDIN-12, c-MYC, CT, Cyp-B, DAM, ELF2M, ETV6-AML1, G250, GAGE, GnT-V,
Gap100, HAGE, HER-2/neu, HPV-E7, HPV-E6, HAST-2, hTERT (or hTRT), LAGE,
LDLR/FUT, MAGE-A, preferably MAGE-A1, MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE
A5, MAGE-A6, MAGE-A7, MAGE-A8, MAGE-A9, MAGE-AIO, MAGE-Al I, or MAGE
A12, MAGE-B, MAGE-C, MART-I/Melan-A, MC1R, Myosin/m, MUC1, MUM-1, -2, -3,
NA88-A,     NFl, NY-ESO-1,       NY-BR-1,     p190 minor BCR-abL, Pml/RARa, PRAME,
proteinase 3, PSA, PSM, RAGE, RUI or RU2, SAGE, SART-1 or SART-3, SCGB3A2,
SCP1, SCP2, SCP3, SSX, SURVIVIN, TEL/AMLI, TPI/m, TRP-1, TRP-2, TRP-2/INT2,
TPTE and WT, preferably WT-1.
The term "epitope" refers to an antigenic determinant in a molecule such as an antigen, i.e., to
a part in or fragment of the molecule that is recognized by the immune system, for example,
that is recognized by a T cell, in particular when presented in the context of MHC molecules.
An epitope of a protein such as a tumor antigen preferably comprises a continuous or
discontinuous portion of said protein and is preferably between 5 and 100, preferably between
5 and 50, more preferably between 8 and 30, most preferably between 10 and 25 amino acids
in length, for example, the epitope may be preferably 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, or 25 amino acids in length. It is particularly preferred that the epitope in
the context of the present invention is a T cell epitope.
According to the invention an epitope may bind to MHC molecules such as MHC molecules

                                                  19
on the surface of a cell and thus, may be a "MHC binding peptide". The term "MHC binding
peptide" relates to a peptide which binds to an MHC class I and/or an MHC class II molecule.
In the case of class I MHC/peptide complexes, the binding peptides are typically 8-10 amino
acids long although longer or shorter peptides may be effective. In the case of class II
MHC/peptide complexes, the binding peptides are typically 10-25 amino acids long and are in
particular 13-18 amino acids long, whereas longer and shorter peptides may be effective.
According to the invention, an antigen encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles
described herein may comprise an immunogenic fragment of a disease-associated antigen
such as a peptide fragment of a disease-associated antigen (also termed antigen peptide
herein) which preferably is a MHC binding peptide.
An "immunogenic fragment of an antigen" according to the invention preferably relates to a
portion or fragment of an antigen which is capable of stimulating an immune response,
preferably a cellular response against the antigen or cells expressing the antigen and
preferably presenting the antigen such as diseased cells, in particular cancer cells. Preferably,
an immunogenic fragment of an antigen is capable of stimulating a cellular response against a
cell characterized by presentation of an antigen with class I MHC and preferably is capable of
stimulating an antigen-responsive CTL. Preferably, it is a portion of an antigen that is
recognized (i.e., specifically bound) by a T cell receptor, in particular if presented in the
context of MHC molecules. Certain preferred immunogenic fragments bind to an MHC class I
or class II molecule. As used herein, an immunogenic fragment is said to "bind to" an MHC
class I or class 11 molecule if such binding is detectable using any assay known in the art.
Preferably, an immunogenic fragment of an antigen according to the invention is an MHC
class I and/or class II presented peptide or can be processed to produce a MHC class I and/or
class 1 presented peptide. Preferably, an immunogenic fragment of an antigen comprises an
amino acid sequence substantially corresponding and preferably being identical to the amino
acid sequence of a fragment of the antigen. Preferably, said fragment of an antigen is an MHC
class I and/or class II presented peptide.
If a peptide is to be presented directly, i.e., without processing, in particular without cleavage,
it has a length which is suitable for binding to an MHC molecule, in particular a class I MHC
molecule, and preferably is 7-20 amino acids in length, more preferably 7-12 amino acids in

                                               20
length, more preferably 8-11 amino acids in length, in particular 9 or 10 amino acids in
length.
If a peptide is part of a larger entity comprising additional sequences, e.g. of a polypeptide,
and is to be presented following processing, in particular following cleavage, the peptide
produced by processing has a length which is suitable for binding to an MHC molecule, in
particular a class I MHC molecule, and preferably is 7-20 amino acids in length, more
preferably 7-12 amino acids in length, more preferably 8-11 amino acids in length, in
particular 9 or 10 amino acids in length. Preferably, the sequence of the peptide which is to be
presented following processing is derived from the amino acid sequence of an antigen, i.e., its
sequence substantially corresponds and is preferably completely identical to a fragment of an
antigen.
Thus, an antigen encoded by the RNA comprised in the nanoparticles described herein may
comprise a sequence of 7-20 amino acids in length, more preferably 7-12 amino acids in
length, more preferably 8-11 amino acids in length, in particular 9 or 10 amino acids in length
which substantially corresponds and is preferably completely identical to a MHC presented
fragment of a disease-associated antigen and following processing makes up a presented
peptide.
Peptides having amino acid sequences substantially corresponding to a sequence of a peptide
which is presented by the class I MHC may differ at one or more residues that are not
essential for TCR recognition of the peptide as presented by the class I MHC, or for peptide
binding to MHC. Such substantially corresponding peptides are also capable of stimulating
CTL having the desired specificity and may be considered immunologically equivalent.
A peptide when presented by MHC should be recognizable by a T cell receptor. Preferably,
the presented peptide if recognized by a T cell receptor is able to induce in the presence of
appropriate co-stimulatoiy signals, clonal expansion of the T cell carrying the T cell receptor
specifically recognizing the presented peptide. Preferably, antigen peptides, in particular if
presented in the context of MHC molecules, are capable of stimulating an immune response,
preferably a cellular response against the antigen from which they are derived or cells
expressing the antigen and preferably presenting the antigen. Preferably, an antigen peptide is
capable of stimulating a cellular response against a cell presenting the antigen with class I

                                                 21
MHC and preferably is capable of stimulating an antigen-responsive CTL. Such cell
preferably is a target cell for the purposes of the invention.
"Target cell" shall mean a cell which is a target for an immune response such as a cellular
immune response. Target cells include cells that express an antigen such as a disease
associated antigen and preferably present said antigen (which, in particular, means that the
antigen is processed in the cells and one or more fragments of the antigen are presented in the
context of MHC molecules on the cells). Target cells include any undesirable cell such as an
infected cell or cancer cell. In preferred embodiments, the target cell is a cell expressing an
antigen as described herein and preferably presenting said antigen with class I MHC.
"Antigen processing" refers to the degradation of an antigen into procession products, which
are fragments of said antigen (e.g., the degradation of a protein into peptides) and the
association of one or more of these fragments (e.g., via binding) with MHC molecules for
presentation by cells, preferably antigen presenting cells to specific T cells.
An antigen-presenting cell (APC) is a cell that presents, i.e. displays, antigen in the context of
major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on its surface. This, includes the situation where
only one or more fragments of an antigen are presented. T cells may recognize this complex
using their T cell receptor (TCR). Antigen-presenting cells process antigens and present them
to T cells.
Professional antigen-presenting cells are very efficient at internalizing antigen, either by
phagocytosis or by receptor-mediated endocytosis, and then displaying a fragment of the
antigen, bound to a class II MHC molecule, on their membrane. The T cell recognizes and
interacts with the antigen-class 11 MHC molecule complex on the membrane of the antigen
presenting cell. An additional co-stimulatory signal is then produced by the antigen
presenting cell, leading to activation of the T cell. The expression of co-stimulatory molecules
is a defining feature of professional antigen-presenting cells.
The main types of professional antigen-presenting cells are dendritic cells, which have the
broadest range of antigen presentation, and are probably the most important antigen
presenting cells, macrophages, B-cells, and certain activated epithelial cells.

                                                 22
Dendritic cells (DCs) are leukocyte populations that present antigens captured in peripheral
tissues to T cells via both MHC class II and I antigen presentation pathways. It is well known
that dendritic cells are potent inducers of immune responses and the activation of these cells is
a critical step for the induction of antitumoral immunity.
Dendritic cells are conveniently categorized as "immature" and "mature" cells, which can be
used as a simple way to discriminate between two well characterized phenotypes. However,
this nomenclature should not be construed to exclude all possible intermediate stages of
differentiation.
Immature dendritic cells are characterized as antigen presenting cells with a high capacity for
antigen uptake and processing, which correlates with the high expression of Fcy receptor and
mannose receptor. The mature phenotype is typically characterized by a lower expression of
these markers, but a high expression of cell surface molecules responsible for T cell activation
such as class I and class 11 MHC, adhesion molecules (e. g. CD54 and CD1 1) and
costimulatory molecules (e. g., CD40, CD80, CD86 and 4-1 BB).
Dendritic cell maturation is referred to as the status of dendritic cell activation at which such
antigen-presenting dendritic cells lead to T cell priming, while presentation by immature
dendritic cells results in tolerance. Dendritic cell maturation is chiefly caused by biomolecules
with microbial features detected by innate receptors (bacterial DNA, viral RNA, endotoxin,
etc.), pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF, IL-I, IFNs), ligation of CD40 on the dendritic cell
surface by CD40L, and substances released from cells undergoing stressful cell death. The
dendritic cells can be derived by culturing bone marrow cells in vitro with cytokines, such as
granulocyte-macrophage       colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and tumor necrosis factor
alpha.
Non-professional antigen-presenting cells do not constitutively express the MHC class II
proteins required for interaction with naive T cells; these are expressed only upon stimulation
of the non-professional antigen-presenting cells by certain cytokines such as IFN7.
Antigen presenting cells can be loaded with MHC presented peptides by transducing the cells
with nucleic acid, such as RNA, encoding a peptide or protein comprising the peptide to be
presented, e.g. a nucleic acid encoding the antigen. Transfection of dendritic cells with mRNA

                                                 23
is a promising antigen-loading technique of stimulating strong antitumor immunity.
The term "immunogenicity" relates to the relative efficiency of an antigen to induce an
immune reaction.
The terms "T cell" and "T lymphocyte" are used interchangeably herein and include T helper
cells (CD4+ T cells) and cytotoxic T cells (CTLs, CD8+ T cells) which comprise cytolytic T
cells.
T cells belong to a group of white blood cells known as lymphocytes, and play a central role
in cell-mediated immunity. They can be distinguished from other lymphocyte types, such as B
cells and natural killer cells by the presence of a special receptor on their cell surface called T
cell receptors (TCR). The thymus is the principal organ responsible for the maturation of T
cells. Several different subsets of T cells have been discovered, each with a distinct function.
T helper cells assist other white blood cells in immunologic processes, including maturation
of B cells into plasma cells and activation of cytotoxic T cells and macrophages, among other
functions. These cells are also known as CD4+ T cells because they express the CD4 protein
on their surface. Helper T cells become activated when they are presented with peptide
antigens by MHC class II molecules that are expressed on the surface of antigen presenting
cells (APCs). Once activated, they divide rapidly and secrete small proteins called cytokines
that regulate or assist in the active immune response.
Cytotoxic T cells destroy diseased cells, e.g. infected cells such as virally infected cells and
cancer cells, and are also implicated in transplant rejection. These cells are also known as
CD8+ T cells since they express the CD8 glycoprotein at their surface. These cells recognize
their targets by binding to antigen associated with MHC class I, which is present on the
surface of nearly every cell of the body.
A majority of T cells have a T cell receptor (TCR) existing as a complex of several proteins.
The actual T cell receptor is composed of two separate peptide chains, which are produced
from the independent T cell receptor alpha and beta (TCRa and TCRp) genes and are called
a- and  p-TCR chains.    y6 T cells (gamma delta T cells) represent a small subset of T cells that
possess a distinct T cell receptor (TCR) on their surface. However, in y6 T cells, the TCR is

                                                 24
made up of one y-chain and one 6-chain. This group of T cells is much less common (2% of
total T cells) than the up T cells.
All T cells originate from hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow. Hematopoietic
progenitors derived from hematopoietic stem cells populate the thymus and expand by cell
division to generate a large population of immature thymocytes. The earliest thymocytes
express neither CD4 nor CD8, and are therefore classed as double-negative (CD4-CD8-) cells.
As they progress through their development they become double-positive thymocytes
(CD4+CD8+), and finally mature to single-positive (CD4+CD8- or CD4-CD8+) thymocytes
that are then released from the thymus to peripheral tissues.
The first signal in activation of T cells is provided by binding of the T cell receptor to a short
peptide presented by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on another cell. This
ensures that only a T cell with a TCR specific to that peptide is activated. The partner cell is
usually a professional antigen presenting cell (APC), usually a dendritic cell in the case of
naive responses, although B cells and macrophages can be important APCs. The peptides
presented to CD8+ T cells by MHC class I molecules are 8-10 amino acids in length; the
peptides presented to CD4+ T cells by MHC class II molecules are longer, as the ends of the
binding cleft of the MHC class II molecule are open.
The term "clonal expansion" refers to a process wherein a specific entity is multiplied. In the
context of the present invention, the term is preferably used in the context of an
immunological response in which lymphocytes are stimulated by an antigen, proliferate, and
the specific lymphocyte recognizing said antigen is amplified. Preferably, clonal expansion
leads to differentiation of the lymphocytes.
According to the invention, cytotoxic T lymphocytes may be generated in vivo by
incorporation of an antigen or an antigen peptide into antigen-presenting cells in vivo. The
antigen or antigen peptide is represented as RNA. The antigen may be processed to produce a
peptide partner for the MHC molecule, while a fragment thereof may be presented without the
need for further processing. The latter is the case in particular, if these can bind to MHC
molecules. The resulting cells present the complex of interest and are recognized by
autologous cytotoxic T lymphocytes which then propagate.

                                                25
Specific activation of CD4+ or CD8+ T cells may be detected in a variety of ways. Methods
for detecting specific T cell activation include detecting the proliferation of T cells, the
production of cytokines (e.g., lymphokines), or the generation of cytolytic activity. For CD4+
T cells, a preferred method for detecting specific T cell activation is the detection of the
proliferation of T cells. For CD8+ T cells, a preferred method for detecting specific T cell
activation is the detection of the generation of cytolytic activity.
The term "major histocompatibility complex" and the abbreviation "MHC" include MHC
class I and MHC class II molecules and relate to a complex of genes which occurs in all
vertebrates. MHC proteins or molecules are important for signaling between lymphocytes and
antigen presenting cells or diseased cells in immune reactions, wherein the MHC proteins or
molecules bind peptides and present them for recognition by T cell receptors. The proteins
encoded by the MHC are expressed on the surface of cells, and display both self antigens
(peptide fragments from the cell itself) and nonself antigens (e.g., fragments of invading
microorganisms) to a T cell.
The MHC region is divided into three subgroups, class I, class II, and class III. MHC class I
proteins contain an c-chain and        p2-microglobulin    (not part of the MHC encoded by
chromosome 15). They present antigen fragments to cytotoxic T cells. On most immune
system cells, specifically on antigen-presenting cells, MHC class II proteins contain a- and   p
chains and they present antigen fragments to T-helper cells. MHC class III region encodes for
other immune components, such as complement components and some that encode cytokines.
In humans, genes in the MHC region that encode antigen-presenting proteins on the cell
surface are referred to as human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes. However the abbreviation
MHC is often used to refer to HLA gene products. HLA genes include the nine so-called
classical MHC genes: HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DPAI, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1,
HLA-DQB 1, HLA-DRA, and HLA-DRB 1.
In one preferred embodiment of all aspects of the invention an MHC molecule is an HLA
molecule.
By "cell characterized by presentation of an antigen", "cell presenting an antigen", "antigen
presented by a cell", "antigen presented" or similar expressions is meant a cell, in particular a

                                                 26
diseased cell or target cell such as an infected cell or a cancer cell, or an antigen presenting
cell presenting the antigen it expresses or a fragment derived from said antigen, e.g. by
processing of the antigen, in the context of MHC molecules, in particular MHC Class I
molecules. Similarly, the terms "disease characterized by presentation of an antigen" denotes
a disease involving cells characterized by presentation of an antigen, in particular with class I
MHC. Presentation of an antigen by a cell may be effected by transfecting the cell with a
nucleic acid such as RNA encoding the antigen.
The term "immunologically equivalent" means that the immunologically equivalent molecule
such as the immunologically equivalent amino acid sequence exhibits the same or essentially
the same immunological properties and/or exerts the same or essentially the same
immunological effects, e.g., with respect to the type of the immunological effect such as
induction of a humoral and/or cellular immune response, the strength and/or duration of the
induced immune reaction, or the specificity of the induced immune reaction.
The term "immune effector functions" in the context of the present invention includes any
functions mediated by components of the immune system that result, for example, in the
killing of infected cells or cancer cells, or in the inhibition of tumor growth and/or inhibition
of tumor development, including inhibition of tumor dissemination and metastasis. Preferably,
the immune effector functions in the context of the present invention are T cell mediated
effector functions. Such functions comprise in the case of a helper T cell (CD4* T cell) the
recognition of an antigen or an antigen peptide in the context of MHC class II molecules by T
cell receptors, the release of cytokines and/or the activation of CD8* lymphocytes (CTLs)
and/or B-cells, and in the case of CTL the recognition of an antigen or an antigen peptide in
the context of MHC class I molecules by T cell receptors, the elimination of cells presented in
the context of MHC class I molecules, i.e., cells characterized by presentation of an antigen
with class I MHC, for example, via apoptosis or perforin-mediated cell lysis, production of
cytokines such as IFN-y and TNF-a, and specific cytolytic killing of antigen expressing target
cells.
A nucleic acid is according to the invention preferably deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or
ribonucleic acid (RNA), more preferably RNA, most preferably in vitro transcribed RNA
(IVT RNA) or synthetic RNA. Nucleic acids include according to the invention genomic
DNA, cDNA, mRNA, recombinantly produced and chemically synthesized molecules. A

                                                27
nucleic acid may according to the invention be in the form of a molecule which is single
stranded or double stranded and linear or closed covalently to form a circle. A nucleic can be
employed for introduction into, i.e. transfection of, cells, for example, in the form of RNA
which can be prepared by in vitro transcription from a DNA template. The RNA can
moreover    be   modified    before   application    by  stabilizing sequences,   capping,   and
polyadenylation.
Nucleic acids may be comprised in a vector. The term "vector" as used herein includes any
vectors known to the skilled person including plasmid vectors, cosmid vectors, phage vectors
such as lambda phage, viral vectors such as adenoviral or baculoviral vectors, or artificial
chromosome vectors such as bacterial artificial chromosomes (BAC),               yeast artificial
chromosomes (YAC), or P1 artificial chromosomes (PAC). Said vectors include expression as
well as cloning vectors. Expression vectors comprise plasmids as well as viral vectors and
generally contain a desired coding sequence and appropriate DNA sequences necessary for
the expression of the operably linked coding sequence in a particular host organism (e.g.,
bacteria, yeast, plant, insect, or mammal) or in in vitro expression systems. Cloning vectors
are generally used to engineer and amplify a certain desired DNA fragment and may lack
functional sequences needed for expression of the desired DNA fragments.
In the context of the present invention, the term "RNA" relates to a molecule which comprises
ribonucleotide   residues and preferably       being   entirely or substantially  composed of
ribonucleotide residues. "Ribonucleotide" relates to a nucleotide with a hydroxyl group at the
2'-position of a p-D-ribofuranosyl group. The term includes double stranded RNA, single
stranded RNA, isolated RNA such as partially purified RNA, essentially pure RNA, synthetic
RNA, recombinantly produced RNA, as well as modified RNA that differs fi-om naturally
occurring RNA by the addition, deletion, substitution and/or alteration of one or more
nucleotides. Such alterations can include addition of non-nucleotide material, such as to the
end(s) of a RNA or internally, for example at one or more nucleotides of the RNA.
Nucleotides in RNA molecules can also comprise non-standard nucleotides, such as non
naturally occurring nucleotides or chemically synthesized nucleotides or deoxynucleotides.
These altered RNAs can be referred to as analogs or analogs of naturally-occurring RNA.
According to the present invention, the tenn "RNA" includes and preferably relates to
"mRNA" which means "messenger RNA" and relates to a "transcript" which may be

                                                 28
produced using DNA as template and encodes a peptide or protein. mRNA typically
comprises a 5' non translated region (5'-UTR), a protein or peptide coding region and a 3' non
translated region (3'-UTR). mRNA has a limited halftime in cells and in vitro. Preferably,
mRNA is produced by in vitro transcription using a DNA template. In one embodiment of the
invention, the RNA is obtained by in vitro transcription or chemical synthesis. The in vitro
transcription methodology is known to the skilled person. For example, there is a variety of in
vitro transcription kits commercially available.
In the context of the present invention, the term "transcription" relates to a process, wherein
the genetic code in a DNA sequence is transcribed into RNA. Subsequently, the RNA may be
translated into protein. According to the present invention, the term "transcription" comprises
"in vitro transcription".
The term "in vitro transcription" relates to a process wherein RNA, in particular mRNA, is in
vitro synthesized in a cell-free system, preferably using appropriate cell extracts. Preferably,
cloning vectors are applied for the generation of transcripts. These cloning vectors are
generally designated as transcription vectors and are according to the present invention
encompassed by the term "vector". According to the present invention, RNA may be obtained
by in vitro transcription of an appropriate DNA template. The promoter for controlling
transcription can be any promoter for any RNA polymerase. Particular examples of RNA
polymerases are the T7, T3, and SP6 RNA polymerases. A DNA template for in vitro
transcription may be obtained by cloning of a nucleic acid, in particular cDNA, and
introducing it into an appropriate vector for in vitro transcription. The cDNA may be obtained
by reverse transcription of RNA. Preferably cloning vectors are used for producing transcripts
which generally are designated transcription vectors.
The term "expression" is used herein in its broadest meaning and comprises the production of
RNA and/or of protein or peptide. With respect to RNA, the term "expression" or
"translation" relates in particular to the production of peptides or proteins. Expression may be
transient or may be stable. According to the invention, the term expression also includes an
"aberrant expression" or "abnormal expression".
"Aberrant expression" or "abnormal expression" means according to the invention that
expression is altered, preferably increased, compared to a reference, e.g. a state in a subject

                                                 29
not having a disease associated with aberrant or abnormal expression of a certain protein, e.g.,
a tumor antigen. An increase in expression refers to an increase by at least 10%, in particular
at least 20%, at least 50% or at least 100%, or more. In one embodiment, expression is only
found in a diseased tissue, while expression in a healthy tissue is repressed.
The term "specifically expressed" means that a protein is essentially only expressed in a
specific tissue or organ. For example, a tumor antigen specifically expressed in gastric
mucosa means that said protein is primarily expressed in gastric mucosa and is not expressed
in other tissues or is not expressed to a significant extent in other tissue or organ types. Thus,
a protein that is exclusively expressed in cells of the gastric mucosa and to a significantly
lesser extent in any other tissue, such as testis, is specifically expressed in cells of the gastric
mucosa. In some embodiments, a tumor antigen may also be specifically expressed under
normal conditions in more than one tissue type or organ, such as in 2 or 3 tissue types or
organs, but preferably in not more than 3 different tissue or organ types. In this case, the
tumor antigen is then specifically expressed in these organs. For example, if a tumor antigen
is expressed under normal conditions preferably to an approximately equal extent in lung and
stomach, said tumor antigen is specifically expressed in lung and stomach.
The term "translation" according to the invention relates to the process in the ribosomes of a
cell by which a strand of messenger RNA directs the assembly of a sequence of amino acids
to make a protein or peptide.
According to the invention, the term "RNA encoding" means that RNA, if present in the
appropriate environment, preferably within a cell, such as an antigen-presenting cell, in
particular a dendritic cell, can be expressed to produce a protein or peptide it encodes.
According to the invention, the stability and translation efficiency of RNA may be modified
as required. The term "modification" in the context of RNA as used according to the present
invention includes any modification of RNA which is not naturally present in said RNA.
In one embodiment of the invention, the RNA used according to the invention does not have
uncapped 5'-triphosphates. Removal of such uncapped 5'-triphosphates can be achieved by
treating RNA with a phosphatase.

                                                30
The RNA according to the invention may have modified ribonucleotides in order to increase
its stability and/or decrease cytotoxicity. For example, in one embodiment, in the RNA used
according to the invention 5-methylcytidine is substituted partially or completely, preferably
completely, for cytidine. Alternatively or additionally, in one embodiment, in the RNA used
according to the invention pseudouridine is substituted partially or completely, preferably
completely, for uridine.
In one embodiment, the term "modification" relates to providing an RNA with a 5'-cap or 5'
cap analog. The term "5'-cap" refers to a cap structure found on the 5'-end of an mRNA
molecule and generally consists of a guanosine nucleotide connected to the mRNA via an
unusual 5' to 5' triphosphate linkage. In one embodiment, this guanosine is methylated at the
7-position. The term "conventional 5'-cap" refers to a naturally occurring RNA 5'-cap,
preferably to the 7-methylguanosine cap (m7 G). In the context of the present invention, the
term "5'-cap" includes a 5'-cap analog that resembles the RNA cap structure and is modified
to possess the ability to stabilize RNA and/or enhance translation of RNA if attached thereto,
preferably in vivo and/or in a cell.
Preferably, the 5' end of the RNA includes a cap structure having the following general
formula:
           O       CH3                                                                0
     HN           N                                                             N        NH
                                        0       0                      0      /
 H2N       N      N                  O-p-0-         --      o-N\Z               N     N      NH2
                                        W       X       Y
                         \<
                       R,   R2                                       OHOH
wherein R1 and R2 are independently hydroxy or methoxy and W-, X- and Y                        are
independently oxygen, sulfur, selenium, or BH3. In a preferred embodiment, R1 and R 2 are
hydroxy and W-, X- and Y are oxygen. In a further preferred embodiment, one of R1 and R2 ,
preferably R1 is hydroxy and the other is methoxy and W, X- and Y- are oxygen. In a further
preferred embodiment, R1 and R2 are hydroxy and one of W-, X- and Y-, preferably X is
sulfur, selenium, or BH 3 , preferably sulfur, while the other are oxygen. In a further preferred
embodiment, one of R1 and R 2 , preferably R2 is hydroxy and the other is methoxy and one of

                                                  31
W-, X and Y-, preferably X is sulfur, selenium, or BH3 , preferably sulfur while the other are
oxygen.
In the above formula, the nucleotide on the right hand side is connected to the RNA chain
through its 3' group.
Providing an RNA with a 5'-cap or 5'-cap analog may be achieved by in vitro transcription of
a DNA template in the presence of said 5'-cap or 5'-cap analog, wherein said 5'-cap is co
transcriptionally incorporated into the generated RNA strand, or the RNA may be generated,
for example, by in vitro transcription, and the 5'-cap may be attached to the RNA post
transcriptionally using capping enzymes, for example, capping enzymes of vaccinia virus.
The RNA may comprise further modifications. For example, a further modification of the
RNA used in the present invention may be an extension or truncation of the naturally
occurring poly(A) tail or an alteration of the 5'- or 3'-untranslated regions (UTR) such as
introduction of a UTR which is not related to the coding region of said RNA, for example, the
exchange of the existing 3'-UTR with or the insertion of one or more, preferably two copies of
a 3'-UTR derived from a globin gene, such as alpha2-globin, alphal-globin, beta-globin,
preferably beta-globin, more preferably human beta-globin.
RNA having an unmasked poly-A sequence is translated more efficiently than RNA having a
masked poly-A sequence.
The term "poly(A) tail" or "poly-A sequence" relates to a sequence of adenyl (A) residues
which typically is located on the 3'-end of a RNA molecule and "unmasked poly-A sequence"
means that the poly-A sequence at the 3' end of an RNA molecule ends with an A of the poly
A sequence and is not followed by nucleotides other than A located at the 3' end, i.e.
downstream, of the poly-A sequence. Furthermore, a long poly-A sequence of about 120 base
pairs results in an optimal transcript stability and translation efficiency of RNA.
Therefore, in order to increase stability and/or expression of the RNA used according to the
present invention, it may be modified so as to be present in conjunction with a poly-A
sequence, preferably having a length of 10 to 500, more preferably 30 to 300, even more
preferably 65 to 200 and especially 100 to 150 adenosine residues. In an especially preferred

                                                 32
embodiment the poly-A sequence has a length of approximately 120 adenosine residues. To
further increase stability and/or expression of the RNA used according to the invention, the
poly-A sequence can be unmasked.
In addition, incorporation of a 3'-non translated region (UTR) into the 3-non translated region
of an RNA molecule can result in an enhancement in translation efficiency. A synergistic
effect may be achieved by incorporating two or more of such 3-non translated regions. The
3-non translated regions may be autologous or heterologous to the RNA into which they are
introduced. In one particular embodiment the 3'-non translated region is derived from the
human   p-globin  gene.
A combination of the above described modifications, i.e. incorporation of a poly-A sequence,
unmasking of a poly-A sequence and incorporation of one or more 3-non translated regions,
has a synergistic influence on the stability of RNA and increase in translation efficiency.
In order to increase expression of the RNA used according to the present invention, it may be
modified within the coding region, i.e. the sequence encoding the expressed peptide or
protein, preferably without altering the sequence of the expressed peptide or protein, so as to
increase the GC-content to increase mRNA stability and to perform a codon optimization and,
thus, enhance translation in cells.
The term "stability" of RNA relates to the "half-life" of RNA. "Half-life" relates to the period
of time which is needed to eliminate half of the activity, amount, or number of molecules. In
the context of the present invention, the half-life of an RNA is indicative for the stability of
said RNA. The half-life of RNA may influence the "duration of expression" of the RNA. It
can be expected that RNA having a long half-life will be expressed for an extended time
period.
Of course, if according to the present invention it is desired to decrease stability and/or
translation efficiency of RNA, it is possible to modify RNA so as to interfere with the
function of elements as described above increasing the stability and/or translation efficiency
of RNA.

                                                 33
The average "diameter" or "size" of the nanoparticles described herein is generally the "design
size" or intended size of the nanoparticles prepared according to an established process. Size
may be a directly measured dimension, such as average or maximum diameter, or may be
determined by an indirect assay such as a filtration screening assay. Direct measurement of
particle size is typically carried out by dynamic light scattering. Frequently, the results from
dynamic light scattering measurements are expressed in terms of         Zaverage (a measure for the
average size) and the polydispersity index, P1 or PDI (a measure for the polydispersity). As
minor variations in size arise during the manufacturing process, a variation up to 40% of the
stated measurement is acceptable and considered to be within the stated size. Alternatively,
size may be determined by filtration screening assays. For example, a particle preparation is
less than a stated size, if at least 97% of the particles pass through a "screen-type" filter of the
stated size.
Preferably, RNA if delivered to, i.e. transfected into, a cell, in particular a cell present in vivo,
such as a dendritic cell, expresses the protein, peptide or antigen it encodes.
The term "transfection" relates to the introduction of nucleic acids, in particular RNA, into a
cell. For purposes of the present invention, the term "transfection" also includes the
introduction of a nucleic acid into a cell such as an antigen-presenting cell or the uptake of a
nucleic acid by such cell, wherein the cell may be present in a subject, e.g., a patient.
According to the invention it is preferred that introduction of RNA encoding an antigen into
cells results in expression of said antigen.
The term "peptide" according to the invention comprises oligo- and polypeptides and refers to
substances comprising two or more, preferably 3 or more, preferably 4 or more, preferably 6
or more, preferably 8 or more, preferably 9 or more, preferably 10 or more, preferably 13 or
more, preferably 16 more, preferably 21 or more and up to preferably 8, 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50,
in particular 100 amino acids joined covalently by peptide bonds. The term "protein" refers to
large peptides, preferably to peptides with more than 100 amino acid residues, but in general
the terms "peptides" and "proteins" are synonyms and are used interchangeably herein.
The term "cell" preferably is an intact cell, i.e. a cell with an intact membrane that has not
released its normal intracellular components such as enzymes, organelles, or genetic material.

                                                 34
An intact cell preferably is a viable cell, i.e. a living cell capable of carrying out its normal
metabolic functions. Preferably said term relates according to the invention to any cell which
can be transfected with an exogenous nucleic acid. The term "cell" includes according to the
invention prokaryotic cells (e.g., E. coli) or eukaryotic cells (e.g., dendritic cells, B cells,
CHO cells, COS cells, K562 cells, HEK293 cells, HELA cells, yeast cells, and insect cells).
The exogenous nucleic acid may be found inside the cell (i) freely dispersed as such, (ii)
incorporated in a recombinant vector, or (iii) integrated into the host cell genome or
mitochondrial DNA. Mammalian cells are particularly preferred, such as cells from humans,
mice, hamsters, pigs, goats, and primates. The cells may be derived from a large number of
tissue types and include primary cells and cell lines. Specific examples include keratinocytes,
peripheral blood leukocytes, bone marrow stem cells, and embryonic stem cells. In further
embodiments, the cell is an antigen-presenting cell, in particular a dendritic cell, a monocyte,
or macrophage.
As used herein, the term "nanoparticle" refers to any particle having a diameter making the
particle suitable for systemic, in particular parenteral, administration, of, in particular, nucleic
acids, typically a diameter of less than 1000 nanometers (nm). In some embodiments, a
nanoparticle has a diameter of less than 600 nm. In some embodiments, a nanoparticle has a
diameter of less than 400 nm.
As used herein, the term "nanoparticulate formulation" or similar terms refer to any substance
that contains at least one nanoparticle. In some embodiments, a nanoparticulate composition
is a uniform collection of nanoparticles. In some embodiments, nanoparticulate compositions
are dispersions or emulsions. In general, a dispersion or emulsion is formed when at least two
immiscible materials are combined.
The term, "lipoplex" or "RNA lipoplex" refers to a complex of lipids and nucleic acids such
as RNA. Lipoplexes are formed spontaneously when cationic liposomes, which often also
include a neutral "helper" lipid, are mixed with nucleic acids.
Zeta potential is a scientific term for electrokinetic potential in colloidal systems. From a
theoretical viewpoint, zeta potential is the electric potential in the interfacial double layer at
the location of the slipping plane versus a point in the bulk fluid away from the interface. In
other words, zeta potential is the potential difference between the dispersion medium and the

                                                35
stationary layer of fluid attached to the dispersed particle. Zeta potential is widely used for
quantification of the magnitude of the electrical charge at the double layer.
Zeta potential can be calculated using theoretical models and experimentally-determined
electrophoretic mobility or dynamic electrophoretic mobility measurements. Electrokinetic
phenomena and electroacoustic phenomena are the usual sources of data for calculation of
zeta potential.
Electrophoresis may be used for estimating zeta potential of particulates. In practice, the zeta
potential of a dispersion can be measured by applying an electric field across the dispersion.
Particles within the dispersion with a zeta potential will migrate toward the electrode of
opposite charge with a velocity proportional to the magnitude of the zeta potential. This
velocity may be measured using the technique of the Laser Doppler Anemometer. The
frequency shift or phase shift of an incident laser beam caused by these moving particles may
be measured as the particle mobility, and this mobility may be converted to the zeta potential
by inputting the dispersant viscosity and dielectric permittivity, and the application of the
Smoluchowski theories.
Electrophoretic velocity is proportional to electrophoretic mobility, which is the measurable
parameter. There are several theories that link electrophoretic mobility with zeta potential.
Suitable systems such as the Nicomp 380 ZLS system can be used for determining the zeta
potential. Such systems usually measure the electrophoretic mobility and stability of charged
particles in liquid suspension. These values are a predictor of the repulsive forces being
exerted by the particles in suspension and are directly related to the stability of the colloidal
system. A zeta potential may be measured according to a protocol as described below.
Electric charge is a physical property that causes a matter to experience a force when near
other electrically charged matter. Electric charge comes in two types, called positive and
negative. Charged particles whose charges have the same sign repel one another, and particles
whose charges have different signs attract.
The electric charge of a macroscopic object such as a particle is the sum of the electric
charges of the particles that make it up. The nanoparticles described herein may have equal

                                                36
numbers of positive and negative charges, in which case their charges cancel out, yielding a
net charge of zero, thus making the nanoparticles neutral. Net charge is the charge on a whole
object such as a compound.
An ion having an overall net positive charge is a cation while an ion having an overall net
negative charge is an anion.
Nanoparticles described herein can be formed by adjusting a positive to negative charge,
depending on the (+/-) charge ratio of the cationic lipid to the RNA and mixing the RNA and
the cationic lipid. The +/- charge ratio of the cationic lipid to the RNA in the nanoparticles
described herein can be calculated by the following equation. (+/- charge ratio)=[(cationic
lipid amount (mol)) * (the total number of positive charges in the cationic lipid)]:[(RNA
amount (mol)) * (the total number of negative charges in RNA)]. The RNA amount and the
cationic lipid amount can be easily determined by one skilled in the art in view of a loading
amount upon preparation of the nanoparticles.
According to an embodiment, the ratio of positive to negative charge in nanoparticles suitable
for the invention is such that they may have a global negative charge or a global charge at or
near the neutrality.
If the present invention refers to a charge such as a positive charge, negative charge or neutral
charge or a cationic compound, negative compound or neutral compound this generally means
that the charge mentioned is present at a selected pH, such as a physiological pH. For
example, the term "cationic lipid" means a lipid having a net positive charge at a selected pH,
such as a physiological pH. The term "neutral lipid" means a lipid having no net positive or
negative charge and can be present in the form of a non-charge or a neutral amphoteric ion at
a selected pH, such as a physiological pH. By "physiological pH" herein is meant a pH of
about 7.5.
The nanoparticulate carriers such as lipid carriers contemplated for use in the present
invention include any substances or vehicles with which RNA can be associated, e.g. by
forming complexes with the RNA or forming vesicles in which the RNA is enclosed or
encapsulated. This may result in increased stability of the RNA compared to naked RNA. In
particular, stability of the RNA in blood may be increased.

                                               37
Cationic lipids, cationic polymers and other substances with positive charges may form
complexes with negatively charged nucleic acids. These cationic molecules can be used to
complex nucleic acids, thereby forming e.g. so-called lipoplexes or polyplexes, respectively,
and these complexes have been shown to deliver nucleic acids into cells.
Nanoparticulate RNA preparations can be obtained by various protocols and from various
RNA complexing compounds. Lipids, polymers, oligomers, or amphipiles are typical
complexing agents. In one embodiment, the complexing compound comprises at least one
agent selected from the group consisting protamine, polyethyleneimine, a poly-L-lysine, a
poly-L-arginine or a histone.
According to the invention, protamine is useful as cationic carrier agent. The term
"protamine" refers to any of various strongly basic proteins of relatively low molecular weight
that are rich in arginine and are found associated especially with DNA in place of somatic
histones in the sperm cells of various animals (as fish). In particular, the term "protamine"
refers to proteins found in fish sperm that are strongly basic, are soluble in water, are not
coagulated by heat, and yield chiefly arginine upon hydrolysis. In purified form, they are used
in a long-acting formulation of insulin and to neutralize the anticoagulant effects of heparin.
According to the invention, the term "protamine" as used herein is meant to comprise any
protamine amino acid sequence obtained or derived from native or biological sources
including fragments thereof and multimeric forms of said amino acid sequence or fragment
thereof. Furthermore, the term encompasses (synthesized) polypeptides which are artificial
and specifically designed for specific purposes and cannot be isolated from native or
biological sources.
The protamine used according to the present invention can be sulfated protamine or
hydrochloride protamine. In a preferred embodiment, the protamine source used for the
production of the nanoparticles described herein is protamine 5000 which contains protamine
at more than 10 mg/ml (5000 heparin-neutralizing units per ml) in an isotonic salt solution.
Liposomes are microscopic lipidic vesicles often having one or more bilayers of a vesicle
forming lipid, such as a phospholipid, and are capable of encapsulating a drug. Different types

                                                38
of liposomes may be employed in the context of the present invention, including, without
being limited thereto, multilamellar vesicles (MLV), small unilamellar vesicles (SUV), large
unilamellar vesicles (LUV), sterically stabilized liposomes (SSL), multivesicular vesicles
(MV), and large multivesicular vesicles (LMV) as well as other bilayered forms known in the
art. The size and lamellarity of the liposome will depend on the manner of preparation and the
selection of the type of vesicles to be used will depend on the preferred mode of
administration. There are several other forms of supramolecular organization in which lipids
may be present in an aqueous medium, comprising lamellar phases, hexagonal and inverse
hexagonal phases, cubic phases, micelles, reverse micelles composed of monolayers. These
phases may also be obtained in the combination with DNA or RNA, and the interaction with
RNA and DNA may substantially affect the phase state. The described phases may be present
in the nanoparticulate RNA formulations of the present invention.
For formation of RNA lipoplexes from RNA and liposomes, any suitable method of forming
liposomes can be used so long as it provides the envisaged RNA lipoplexes. Liposomes may
be formed using standard methods such as the reverse evaporation method (REV), the ethanol
injection method, the dehydration-rehydration method (DRV), sonication or other suitable
methods.
After liposome formation, the liposomes can be sized to obtain a population of liposomes
having a substantially homogeneous size range.
Bilayer-forming lipids have typically two hydrocarbon chains, particularly acyl chains, and a
head group, either polar or nonpolar. Bilayer-forming lipids are either composed of naturally
occurring    lipids  or   of   synthetic   origin,  including   the    phospholipids,    such   as
phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatide acid, phosphatidylinositol, and
sphingomyelin, where the two hydrocarbon chains are typically between about 14-22 carbon
atoms in length, and have varying degrees of unsaturation. Other suitable lipids for use in the
composition of the present invention include glycolipids and sterols such as cholesterol and its
various analogs which can also be used in the liposomes.
Cationic lipids typically have a lipophilic moiety, such as a sterol, an acyl or diacyl chain, and
have an overall net positive charge. The head group of the lipid typically carries the positive
charge. The cationic lipid preferably has a positive charge of I to 10 valences, more

                                                 39
preferably a positive charge of I to 3 valences, and more preferably a positive charge of 1
valence. Examples of cationic lipids include, but are not limited to 1,2-di-O-octadecenyl-3
trimethylammonium propane (DOTMA); dimethyldioctadecylammonium                     (DDAB);      1,2
dioleoyl-3 -trimethylammonium-propane          (DOTAP);       1,2-dioleoyl-3-dimethylammonium
propane     (DODAP);       1,2-diacyloxy-3-dimethylammonium         propanes;    1,2-dialkyloxy-3
dimethylammonium propanes; dioctadecyldimethyl ammonium chloride (DODAC),                       1,2
dimyristoyloxypropyl-1,3-dimethylhydroxyethyl ammonium (DMRIE), and 2,3-dioleoyloxy
N-[2(spermine carboxamide)ethyl]-N,N-dimethyl-1-propanamium trifluoroacetate (DOSPA).
Preferred are DOTMA, DOTAP, DODAC, and DOSPA. Most preferred is DOTMA.
In addition, the nanoparticles described herein preferably further include a neutral lipid in
view of structural stability and the like. The neutral lipid can be appropriately selected in view
of the delivery efficiency of the RNA-lipid complex. Examples of neutral lipids include, but
are not limited to, 1,2-di-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (DOPE), 1,2
dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine            (DOPC),         diacylphosphatidyl          choline,
diacylphosphatidyl     ethanol   amine,    ceramide,   sphingoemyelin,     cephalin,   sterol,  and
cerebroside. Preferred is DOPE and/or DOPC. Most preferred is DOPE. In the case where a
cationic liposome includes both a cationic lipid and a neutral lipid, the molar ratio of the
cationic lipid to the neutral lipid can be appropriately determined in view of stability of the
liposome and the like.
According     to  one   embodiment,     the   nanoparticles   described   herein   may    comprise
phospholipids.    The     phospholipids    may    be    a   glycerophospholipid.     Examples     of
glycerophospholipid include, without being limited thereto, three types of lipids: (i)
zwitterionic phospholipids, which include, for example, phosphatidylcholine (PC), egg yolk
phosphatidylcholine,     soybean-derived    PC in natural, partially      hydrogenated     or fully
hydrogenated form, dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine           (DMPC) sphingomyelin (SM); (ii)
negatively charged phospholipids: which include, for example, phosphatidylserine (PS),
phosphatidylinositol (PI), phosphatidic acid (PA), phosphatidylglycerol (PG) dipalmipoyl PG,
dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol (DMPG); synthetic derivatives in which the conjugate
renders a zwitterionic phospholipid negatively charged such is the case of methoxy
polyethylene,glycol- distearoyl phosphatidylethanolamine (mPEG-DSPE); and (iii) cationic
phospholipids, which include, for example, phosphatidylcholine or sphingomyelin of which
the phosphomonoester was O-methylated to form the cationic lipids.

                                                40
Association of RNA to the lipid carrier can occur, for example, by the RNA filling interstitial
spaces of the carrier, such that the carrier physically entraps the RNA, or by covalent, ionic,
or hydrogen bonding, or by means of adsorption by non-specific bonds. Whatever the mode
of association, the RNA must retain its therapeutic, i.e. antigen-encoding, properties.
The "polydispersity index" is a measurement of the homogeneous or heterogeneous size
distribution of the individual particles such as liposomes in a particle mixture and indicates
the breadth of the particle distribution in a mixture. The PI can be determined, for example, as
described herein.
As used herein, the term "bivalent cation" is intended to mean a positively charged element,
                                                                                          2+
atom or molecule having a charge of plus 2. The term includes metal ions such as Ca , Zn2*,
Mn', Mg2, Fe2, Co 2 +, Ni+ and/or Cu+. Bivalent cations according to the invention also
include salt forms of the ions. Specific examples of bivalent salt forms include CaCl 2, ZnCl2,
MnSO 4 , MnCl 2 and MgCl 2 and other combinations of the above exemplary divalent cations in
a salt form with, for example, chloride (Cl), sulfate (SO 4 ), acetate and/or phosphate. Bivalent
cations and salt forms other than those exemplified above are well known in the art and
included in the meaning of the term as it is used herein.
The term "monovalent ion" includes a cation that has a charge of plus 1. Typically, the term
includes alkali metals such as lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, and caesium.
The term "portion" refers to a fraction. With respect to a particular structure such as an amino
acid sequence or protein the term "portion" thereof may designate a continuous or a
discontinuous fraction of said structure. Preferably, a portion of an amino acid sequence
comprises at least 1%, at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, preferably at least
40%, preferably at least 50%, more preferably at least 60%, more preferably at least 70%,
even more preferably at least 80%, and most preferably at least 90% of the amino acids of
said amino acid sequence. Preferably, if the portion is a discontinuous fraction said
discontinuous fraction is composed of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more parts of a structure, each part
being a continuous element of the structure. For example, a discontinuous fraction of an
amino acid sequence may be composed of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more, preferably not more than
4 parts of said amino acid sequence, wherein each part preferably comprises at least 5

                                                41
continuous amino acids, at least 10 continuous amino acids, preferably at least 20 continuous
amino acids, preferably at least 30 continuous amino acids of the amino acid sequence.
The terms "part" and "fragment" are used interchangeably herein and refer to a continuous
element. For example, a part of a structure such as an amino acid sequence or protein refers to
a continuous element of said structure. A portion, a part or a fragment of a structure
preferably comprises one or more functional properties of said structure. For example, a
portion, a part or a fragment of an epitope, peptide or protein is preferably immunologically
equivalent to the epitope, peptide or protein it is derived from. In the context of the present
invention, a "part" of a structure such as an amino acid sequence preferably comprises,
preferably consists of at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at
least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 92%, at least 94%, at
least 96%, at least 98%, at least 99% of the entire structure or amino acid sequence.
"Reduce" or "inhibit" as used herein means the ability to cause an overall decrease, preferably
of 5% or greater, 10% or greater, 20% or greater, more preferably of 50% or greater, and most
preferably of 75% or greater, in the level. The term "inhibit" or similar phrases includes a
complete or essentially complete inhibition, i.e. a reduction to zero or essentially to zero.
Terms such as "increase" or "enhance" preferably relate to an increase or enhancement by
about at least 10%, preferably at least 20%, preferably at least 30%, more preferably at least
40%, more preferably at least 50%, even more preferably at least 80%, and most preferably at
least 100%, at least 200%, at least 500%, at least 1000%, at least 10000% or even more.
The agents, compositions and methods described herein can be used to treat a subject with a
disease, e.g., a disease characterized by the presence of diseased cells expressing an antigen
and presenting an antigen peptide. Examples of diseases which can be treated and/or
prevented encompass all diseases expressing one of the antigens described herein. Particularly
preferred diseases are infectious diseases such as viral diseases and cancer diseases. The
agents, compositions and methods described herein may also be used for immunization or
vaccination to prevent a disease described herein.

                                                42
According to the invention, the term "disease" refers to any pathological state, including
infectious diseases and cancer diseases, in particular those forms of infectious diseases and
cancer diseases described herein.
A disease to be treated according to the invention is preferably a disease involving an antigen.
"Disease involving an antigen" or similar expressions means according to the invention that
the antigen is expressed in cells of a diseased tissue or organ. Expression in cells of a diseased
tissue or organ may be increased compared to the state in a healthy tissue or organ. In one
embodiment, expression is only found in a diseased tissue, while expression in a healthy
tissue is repressed. According to the invention, diseases involving an antigen include
infectious diseases and cancer diseases, wherein the disease-associated antigen is preferably
an antigen of the infectious agent and a tumor antigen, respectively. Preferably a disease
involving an antigen preferably is a disease involving cells expressing an antigen and
presenting the antigen in the context of MHC molecules, in particular with class I MHC.
The terms "normal tissue" or "normal conditions" refer to healthy tissue or the conditions in a
healthy subject, i.e., non-pathological conditions, wherein "healthy" preferably means non
infected or non-cancerous.
Cancer or cancer disease (medical term: malignant neoplasm) is a class of diseases in which a
group of cells display uncontrolled growth (division beyond the normal limits), invasion
(intrusion on and destruction of adjacent tissues), and sometimes metastasis (spread to other
locations in the body via lymph or blood). These three malignant properties of cancers
differentiate them from benign tumors, which are self-limited, and do not invade or
metastasize. Most cancers form a tumor, i.e. a swelling or lesion formed by an abnormal
growth of cells (called neoplastic cells or tumor cells), but some, like leukemia, do not. The
term "cancer" according to the invention comprises leukemias, seminomas, melanomas,
teratomas, lymphomas, neuroblastomas, gliomas, rectal cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney
cancer, adrenal cancer, thyroid cancer, blood cancer, skin cancer, cancer of the brain, cervical
cancer, intestinal cancer, liver cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer, intestine cancer, head
and neck cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, lymph node cancer, esophagus cancer, colorectal
cancer, pancreas cancer, ear, nose and throat (ENT) cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer,
cancer of the uterus, ovarian cancer and lung cancer and the metastases thereof. Examples
thereof are lung carcinomas, mamma carcinomas, prostate carcinomas, colon carcinomas,

                                              43
renal cell carcinomas, cervical carcinomas, or metastases of the cancer types or tumors
described above. The term cancer according to the invention also comprises cancer
metastases.
Examples of cancers treatable with the nanoparticles and pharmaceutical composition of the
present invention include malignant melanoma, all types of carcinoma (colon, renal cell,
bladder, prostate, non-small cell and small cell lung carcinoma, etc.), lymphomas, sarcomas,
blastomas, gliomas, etc.
Malignant melanoma is a serious type of skin cancer. It is due to uncontrolled growth of
pigment cells, called melanocytes.
According to the invention, a "carcinoma" is a malignant tumor derived from epithelial cells.
This group represents the most common cancers, including the common forms of breast,
prostate, lung and colon cancer.
Lymphoma and leukemia are malignancies derived from hematopoietic (blood-forming) cells.
A sarcoma is a cancer that arises from transformed cells in one of a number of tissues that
develop from embryonic mesoderm. Thus, sarcomas include tumors of bone, cartilage, fat,
muscle, vascular, and hematopoietic tissues.
Blastic tumor or blastoma is a tumor (usually malignant) which resembles an immature or
embryonic tissue. Many of these tumors are most common in children.
A glioma is a type of tumor that starts in the brain or spine. It is called a glioma because it
arises from glial cells. The most common site of gliomas is the brain.
By "metastasis" is meant the spread of cancer cells from its original site to another part of the
body. The formation of metastasis is a very complex process and depends on detachment of
malignant cells from the primary tumor, invasion of the extracellular matrix, penetration of
the endothelial basement membranes to enter the body cavity and vessels, and then, after
being transported by the blood, infiltration of target organs. Finally, the growth of a new
tumor, i.e. a secondary tumor or metastatic tumor, at the target site depends on angiogenesis.

                                              44
Tumor metastasis often occurs even after the removal of the primary tumor because tumor
cells or components may remain and develop metastatic potential. In one embodiment, the
term "metastasis" according to the invention relates to "distant metastasis" which relates to a
metastasis which is remote from the primary tumor and the regional lymph node system.
Examples of infectious diseases treatable       with the nanoparticles     and pharmaceutical
compositions of the present invention include viral infectious diseases, such as AIDS (HIV),
hepatitis A, B or C, herpes, herpes zoster (chicken-pox), German measles (rubella virus),
yellow fever, dengue etc. flaviviruses, influenza viruses, hemorrhagic infectious diseases
(Marburg or Ebola viruses), bacterial infectious diseases, such as Legionnaire's disease
(Legionella), gastric    ulcer  (Helicobacter), cholera (Vibrio),    infections  by E.     coli,
Staphylococci, Salmonella or Streptococci (tetanus); infections by protozoan pathogens such
as malaria, sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis; toxoplasmosis, i.e. infections by Plasmodium,
TIypanosoma, Leishmania and Toxoplasma; or fungal infections, which are caused e.g. by
Cryptococcus neoformans, Histoplasma capsulatum, Coccidioides immitis, Blastomyces
dermatitidisor Candida albicans).
By "treat" is meant to administer a compound or composition as described herein to a subject
in order to prevent or eliminate a disease, including reducing the size of a tumor or the
number of tumors in a subject; arrest or slow a disease in a subject; inhibit or slow the
development of a new disease in a subject; decrease the frequency or severity of symptoms
and/or recurrences in a subject who currently has or who previously has had a disease; and/or
prolong, i.e. increase the lifespan of the subject. In particular, the term "treatment of a
disease" includes curing, shortening the duration, ameliorating, preventing, slowing down or
inhibiting progression or worsening, or preventing or delaying the onset of a disease or the
symptoms thereof.
The term "immunotherapy" relates to a treatment involving activation of a specific immune
response and/or immune effector function(s). Immunotherapy may be performed using any of
a variety of techniques, in which agents provided herein function to remove antigen
expressing cells from a patient. Such removal may take place as a result of enhancing or
inducing an immune response and/or immune effector function(s) in a patient specific for an
antigen or a cell expressing an antigen.

                                                 45
In the context of the present invention, terms such as "protect", "prevent", "prophylactic",
'preventive", or "protective" relate to the prevention or treatment or both of the occurrence
and/or the propagation of a disease in a subject and, in particular, to minimizing the chance
that a subject will develop a disease or to delaying the development of a disease. For example,
a person at risk for cancer would be a candidate for therapy to prevent cancer.
A prophylactic      administration    of an    immunotherapy,     for  example,  a prophylactic
administration of the composition of the invention, preferably protects the recipient from the
development of a disease. A therapeutic administration of an immunotherapy, for example, a
therapeutic administration of the composition of the invention, may lead to the inhibition of
the progress/growth of the disease. This comprises the deceleration of the progress/growth of
the disease, in particular a disruption of the progression of the disease, which preferably leads
to elimination of the disease.
By "being at risk" is meant a subject that is identified as having a higher than normal chance
of developing a disease, in particular cancer, compared to the general population. In addition,
a subject who has had, or who currently has, a disease, in particular cancer is a subject who
has an increased risk for developing a disease, as such a subject may continue to develop a
disease. Subjects who currently have, or who have had, a cancer also have an increased risk
for cancer metastases.
The agents and compositions provided herein may be used alone or in combination with
conventional therapeutic regimens such as surgery, irradiation, chemotherapy and/or bone
marrow transplantation (autologous, syngeneic, allogeneic or unrelated).
Treatment of cancer represents a field where combination strategies are especially desirable
since frequently the combined action of two, three, four or even more cancer drugs/therapies
generates   synergistic effects which are considerably         stronger than the impact of a
monotherapeutic approach. Thus, in another embodiment of the present invention, a cancer
treatment which utilizes immune- or vaccination-based mechanisms such as the methods and
pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be effectively combined with
various other drugs and/or methods targeting similar or other specific mechanisms. Among
those are e.g. combinations with conventional tumor therapies, multi-epitope strategies,
additional immunotherapy, and treatment approaches targeting angiogenesis or apoptosis (for

                                                46
review see e.g. Andersen et al. 2008: Cancer treatment: the combination of vaccination with
other therapies. Cancer Immunology          Immunotherapy, 57(11):      1735-1743.)  Sequential
administration of different agents may inhibit cancer cell growth at different check points,
while other agents may e.g. inhibit neo-angiogenesis, survival of malignant cells or
metastases, potentially converting cancer into a chronic disease. The following list provides
some non-limiting examples of anti-cancer drugs and therapies which can be used in
combination with the present invention:
1. Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy is the standard of care for multiple types of cancer. The most common
chemotherapy agents act by killing cells that divide rapidly, one of the main properties of
cancer cells. Thus, a combination with conventional chemotherapeutic drugs such as e.g.
alkylating agents, antimetabolites, anthracyclines, plant alkaloids, topoisomerase inhibitors,
and other antitumour agents which either affect cell division or DNA synthesis may
significantly improve the therapeutic effects of the present invention by clearing suppressor
cells, reboot of the immune system, by rendering tumor cells more susceptible to immune
mediated killing, or by additional activation of cells of the immune system. A synergistic anti
cancer action of chemotherapeutic and vaccination-based immunotherapeutic drugs has been
demonstrated in multiple studies (see e.g. Quoix et al. 2011: Therapeutic vaccination with
TG4010 and first-line chemotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a controlled
phase 2B trial. Lancet Oncol. 12(12): 1125-33.; see also Liseth et al. 2010: Combination of
intensive chemotherapy and anticancer vaccines in the treatment of human malignancies: the
hematological experience. J Biomed Biotechnol. 2010: 6920979; see also Hirooka et al 2009:
A combination therapy of gemcitabine with immunotherapy for patients with inoperable
locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Pancreas 38(3):           e69-74). There are hundreds of
chemotherapeutic drugs available which are basically suitable for combination therapies.
Some (non-limiting) examples of chemotherapeutic drugs which can be combined with the
present    invention   are   carboplatin    (Paraplatin),   cisplatin  (Platinol, Platinol-AQ),
cyclophosphamide     (Cytoxan, Neosar), docetaxel (Taxotere), doxorubicin (Adriamycin),
erlotinib (Tarceva), etoposide (VePesid), fluorouracil (5-FU), gemcitabine (Gemzar), imatinib
mesylate (Gleevec), irinotecan (Camptosar), methotrexate (Folex, Mexate, Amethopterin),
paclitaxel (Taxol, Abraxane), sorafinib (Nexavar), sunitinib (Sutent), topotecan (Hycamtin),
vincristine (Oncovin, Vincasar PFS), and vinblastine (Velban).

                                                47
2. Surgery
Cancer surgery - an operation to remove the tumor - remains the foundation of cancer
treatment. Surgery can be combined with other cancer treatments in order to delete any
remaining tumor cells. Combining surgical methods with subsequent immunotherapeutic
treatment is a promising approach which has been demonstrated countless times.
3. Radiation
Radiation therapy remains an important component of cancer treatment with approximately
50% of all cancer patients receiving radiation therapy during their course of illness. The main
goal of radiation therapy is to deprive cancer cells of their multiplication (cell division)
potential. The types of radiation used to treat cancer are photons radiation (x-rays and gamma
rays) and particle radiations (electron, proton and neutron beams.) There are two ways to
deliver the radiation to the location of the cancer. External beam radiation is delivered from
outside the body by aiming high-energy rays (photons, protons or particle radiation) to the
location of the tumor. Internal radiation or brachytherapy is delivered from inside the body by
radioactive sources, sealed in catheters or seeds directly into the tumor site. Radiation therapy
techniques which are applicable in combination with the present invention are e.g.
fractionation (radiation therapy delivered in a fractionated regime, e.g. daily fractions of 1.5 to
3 Gy given over several weeks), 3D conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT; delivering radiation to
the gross tumor volume), intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT; computer-controlled
intensity modulation of multiple radiation beams), image guided radiotherapy (IGRT; a
technique comprising pre-radiotherapy imaging which allows for correction), and stereotactic
body radiation therapy (SRBT, delivers very high individual doses of radiation over only a
few treatment fractions). For a radiation therapy review see Baskar et al. 2012: Cancer and
radiation therapy: current advances and future directions. Int. J Med Sci. 9(3): 193-199.
4. Antibodies
Antibodies (preferably monoclonal antibodies) achieve their therapeutic effect against cancer
cells through various mechanisms. They can have direct effects in producing apoptosis or
programmed cell death. They can block components of signal transduction pathways such as
e.g. growth factor receptors, effectively arresting proliferation of tumor cells. In cells that
express monoclonal antibodies, they can bring about anti-idiotype antibody formation.
Indirect effects include recruiting cells that have cytotoxicity, such as monocytes and
macrophages. This type of antibody-mediated cell kill is called antibody-dependent cell

                                                48
mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). Antibodies also bind complement, leading to direct cell
toxicity, known as complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). Combining surgical methods
with immunotherapeutic drugs or methods is an successful approach, as e.g. demonstrated in
Gadri et al. 2009: Synergistic effect of dendritic cell vaccination and anti-CD20 antibody
treatment in the therapy of murine lymphoma. J Immunother. 32(4): 333-40. The following
list provides some non-limiting examples of anti-cancer antibodies and potential antibody
targets (in brackets) which can be used in combination with the present invention:
Abagovomab      (CA-125),    Abciximab    (CD41),     Adecatumumab       (EpCAM),      Afutuzumab
(CD20), Alacizumab pegol (VEGFR2), Altumomab pentetate (CEA), Amatuximab (MORAb
009), Anatumomab mafenatox (TAG-72), Apolizumab (HLA-DR), Arcitumomab (CEA),
Bavituximab (phosphatidylserine), Bectumomab (CD22), Belimumab (BAFF), Bevacizumab
(VEGF-A), Bivatuzumab mertansine (CD44 v6), Blinatumomab (CD19), Brentuximab
vedotin (CD30 TNFRSF8), Cantuzumab mertansin (mucin CanAg), Cantuzumab ravtansine
(MUC1),     Capromab     pendetide   (prostatic    carcinoma    cells),   Carlumab    (CNTO888),
Catumaxomab       (EpCAM, CD3),      Cetuximab (EGFR), Citatuzumab bogatox (EpCAM),
Cixutumumab (IGF-1 receptor), Claudiximab (Claudin), Clivatuzumab tetraxetan (MUCI),
Conatumumab (TRAIL-R2), Dacetuzumab (CD40), Dalotuzumab (insulin-like growth factor
I receptor), Denosumab (RANKL), Detumomab (B-lymphoma cell), Drozitumab (DR5),
Ecromeximab       (GD3   ganglioside),  Edrecolomab       (EpCAM),      Elotuzumab     (SLAMF7),
Enavatuzumab (PDL192), Ensituximab (NPC-1C), Epratuzumab (CD22), Ertumaxomab
(HER2/neu, CD3), Etaracizumab (integrin avp3), Farletuzumab (folate receptor 1), FBTA05
(CD20),    Ficlatuzumab    (SCH    900105),   Figitumumab      (IGF-I     receptor),  Flanvotumab
(glycoprotein    75),  Fresolimumab    (TGF-),       Galiximab    (CD80),     Ganitumab    (IGF-I),
Gemtuzumab ozogamicin (CD33), Gevokizumab (IL-1p), Girentuximab (carbonic anhydrase
9 (CA-IX)), Glembatumumab vedotin (GPNMB), Ibritumomab tiuxetan (CD20), Icrucumab
(VEGFR-1), Igovoma (CA-125), Indatuximab ravtansine (SDCl), Intetumumab (CD51),
Inotuzumab ozogamicin (CD22), Ipilimumab (CD152), Iratumumab (CD30), Labetuzumab
(CEA), Lexatumumab (TRAIL-R2), Libivirumab (hepatitis B surface antigen), Lintuzumab
(CD33), Lorvotuzumab mertansine (CD56), Lucatumumab (CD40), Lumiliximab (CD23),
Mapatumumab        (TRAIL-RI), Matuzumab        (EGFR), Mepolizumab          (IL-5), Milatuzumab
(CD74),    Mitumomab      (GD3    ganglioside),     Mogamulizumab       (CCR4),      Moxetumomab
pasudotox (CD22), Nacolomab tafenatox (C242 antigen), Naptumomab estafenatox (5T4),
Narnatumab (RON), Necitumumab (EGFR), Nimotuzumab (EGFR), Nivolumab (IgG4),
Ofatumumab (CD20), Olaratumab (PDGF-R a), Onartuzumab (human scatter factor receptor

                                              49
kinase), Oportuzumab monatox (EpCAM), Oregovomab (CA-125), Oxelumab (OX-40),
Panitumumab (EGFR), Patritumab (HER3), Pemtumoma (MUC1), Pertuzuma (HER2/neu),
Pintumomab      (adenocarcinoma    antigen),  Pritumumab     (vimentin),  Racotumomab      (N
glycolylneuraminic acid), Radretumab (fibronectin extra domain-B), Rafivirumab (rabies
virus glycoprotein), Ramucirumab (VEGFR2), Rilotumumab (HGF), Rituximab (CD20),
Robatumumab (IGF-1 receptor), Samalizumab (CD200), Sibrotuzumab (FAP), Siltuximab
(IL-6), Tabalumab (BAFF), Tacatuzumab tetraxetan (alpha-fetoprotein),           Taplitumomab
paptox (CD19), Tenatumomab (tenascin C), Teprotumumab (CD221), Ticilimumab (CTLA
4), Tigatuzumab (TRAIL-R2), TNX-650           (IL-13), Tositumomab (CD20),        Trastuzumab
(HER2/neu),     TRBS07    (GD2),    Tremelimumab      (CTLA-4),   Tucotuzumab      celmoleukin
(EpCAM),      Ublituximab   (MS4A1),    Urelumab    (4-1BB),   Volociximab   (integrin a5p1),
Votumumab (tumor antigen CTAA16.88), Zalutumumab (EGFR), Zanolimumab (CD4).
5. Cytokines, chemokines, costimulatory molecules, fusion proteins
Combined usage of the antigen-coding pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention
with cytokines, chemokines, costimulatory molecules and/or fusion proteins thereof to evoke
beneficial immune modulation or tumor inhibition effects is another embodiment of the
present invention. In order to increase the infiltration of immune cells into the tumor and
facilitate the movement of antigen-presenting cells to tumor-draining lymph nodes, various
chemokines with C, CC, CXC and CX3C structures might be used. Some of the most
promising chemokines are e.g CCR7 and its ligands CCL19 andCCL21, furthermore CCL2,
CCL3, CCL5, and CCL16. Other examples are CXCR4, CXCR7 and CXCL12. Furthermore,
costimulatory or regulatory molecules such as e.g. B7 ligands (B7.1 and B7.2) are useful.
Also useful are other cytokines such as e.g. interleukins especially (e.g. IL-1 to IL17),
interferons (e.g. IFNalphal to IFNalpha8, IFNalpha10, IFNalphal3, IFNalpha14, IFNalpha16,
IFNalpha17, IFNalpha2l, IFNbetal, IFNW, IFNE1 and IFNK), hematopoietic factors, TGFs
(e.g. TGF-a, TGF-p, and other members of the TGF family), finally members of the tumor
necrosis factor family of receptors and their ligands as well as other stimulatory molecules,
comprising but not limited to 41BB, 41BB-L, CD137, CD137L, CTLA-4GITR, GITRL, Fas,
Fas-L, TNFRI, TRAIL-R1, TRAIL-R2, p75NGF-R, DR6, LT.beta.R, RANK, EDARI,
XEDAR, Fn1 14, Troy/Trade, TAJ, TNFRII, HVEM, CD27, CD30, CD40, 4-1BB, OX40,
GITR, GITRL, TACI, BAFF-R, BCMA, RELT, and CD95 (Fas/APO-1), glucocorticoid
induced TNFR-related protein, TNF receptor-related apoptosis-mediating protein (TRAMP)
and death receptor-6 (DR6). Especially CD40/CD40L and OX40/OX40L are important

                                               50
targets for combined immunotherapy because of their direct impact on T cell survival and
proliferation. For a review see Lechner et al. 2011: Chemokines, costimulatory molecules and
fusion proteins for the immunotherapy of solid tumors. Immunotherapy 3 (11), 1317-1340.
6. Bacterial treatments
Researchers have been using anaerobic bacteria, such as Clostridium novyi, to consume the
interior of oxygen-poor tumours. These should then die when they come in contact with the
tumour's oxygenated sides, meaning they would be harmless to the rest of the body. Another
strategy is to use anaerobic bacteria that have been transformed with an enzyme that can
convert a non-toxic prodrug into a toxic drug. With the proliferation of the bacteria in the
necrotic and hypoxic areas of the tumour, the enzyme is expressed solely in the tumour. Thus,
a systemically applied prodrug is metabolised to the toxic drug only in the tumour. This has
been demonstrated to be effective with the nonpathogenic anaerobe Clostridium sporogenes.
7. Kinase inhibitors
Another large group of potential targets for complementary cancer therapy comprises kinase
inhibitors, because the growth and survival of cancer cells is closely interlocked with the
deregulation of kinase activity. To restore normal kinase activity and therefor reduce tumor
growth a broad range of inhibitors is in used. The group of targeted kinases comprises
receptor tyrosine kinases e.g. BCR-ABL, B-Raf, EGFR, HER-2/ErbB2, IGF-IR, PDGFR-a,
PDGFR-p, c-Kit, Flt-4, Flt3, FGFRI, FGFR3, FGFR4, CSFIR, c-Met, RON, c-Ret, ALK,
cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases e.g. c-SRC, c-YES, Abl, JAK-2, serine/threonine kinases e.g.
ATM, Aurora A & B, CDKs, mTOR, PKCi, PLKs, b-Raf, S6K, STK11/LKB1 and lipid
kinases e.g. P13K, SKI. Small molecule kinase inhibitors are e.g. PHA-739358, Nilotinib,
Dasatinib, and PD166326, NSC 743411, Lapatinib (GW-572016), Canertinib (CI-1033),
Semaxinib (SU5416), Vatalanib (PTK787/ZK222584), Sutent (SU11248), Sorafenib (BAY
43-9006) and Leflunomide (SU101). For more information see e.g. Zhang et al. 2009:
Targeting cancer with small molecule kinase inhibitors. Nature Reviews Cancer 9, 28-39.
8. Toll-like receptors
The members of the Toll-like receptor (TLRs) family are an important link between innate
and adaptive immunity and the effect of many adjuvants rely on the activation of TLRs. A
large number of established vaccines against cancer incorporate ligands for TLRs for boosting
vaccine responses. Besides TLR2, TLR3, TLR4 especially TLR7 and TLR 8 have been

                                               51
examined for cancer therapy in passive immunotherapy approaches. The closely related TLR7
and TLR8 contribute to antitumor responses by affecting immune cells, tumor cells, and the
tumor microenvironment and may be activated by nucleoside analogue structures. All TLR's
have been used as stand-alone immunotherapeutics or cancer vaccine adjuvants and may be
synergistically combined with the formulations and methods of the present invention. For
more information see van Duin et al. 2005: Triggering TLR signaling in vaccination. Trends
in Immunology, 27(1):49-55.
9. Angiogenesis inhibitors
In addition to therapies which target immune modulatory receptors affected by tumor
mediated escape mechanisms and immune suppression there are therapies which target the
tumor environment. Angiogenesis inhibitors prevent the extensive growth of blood vessels
(angiogenesis) that tumors require to survive. The angiogenesis promoted by tumor cells to
meet their increasing nutrient and oxygen demands for example can be blocked by targeting
different  molecules.    Non-limiting   examples   of angiogenesis-mediating       molecules or
angiogenesis inhibitors which may be combined with the present invention are soluble VEGF
(VEGF isoforms VEGF121 and VEGF165, receptors VEGFR1, VEGFR2 and co-receptors
Neuropilin-1 and Neuropilin-2) 1 and NRP-1, angiopoietin 2, TSP-I and TSP-2, angiostatin
and related molecules, endostatin, vasostatin, calreticulin, platelet factor-4, TIMP and CDAI,
Meth-1 and Meth-2, IFN-a, -P and -y, CXCL1O, IL-4, -12 and -18, prothrombin (kringle
domain-2), antithrombin III fragment, prolactin, VEGI, SPARC, osteopontin, maspin,
canstatin, proliferin-related protein, restin and drugs like e.g. bevacizumab, itraconazole,
carboxyamidotriazole,     TNP-470,   CMIOI, IFN-a,, platelet factor-4,        suramin,  SU5416,
thrombospondin, VEGFR antagonists, angiostatic steroids + heparin, cartilage-derived
angiogenesis   Inhibitory factor, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors, 2-methoxyestradiol,
tecogalan, tetrathiomolybdate, thalidomide, thrombospondin, prolactina Vp3 inhibitors,
linomide, tasquinimod, For review see Schoenfeld and Dranoff 2011: Anti-angiogenesis
immunotherapy. Hum Vaccin. (9):976-81.
10. Small molecule targeted therapy drugs
Small molecule targeted therapy drugs are generally inhibitors of enzymatic domains on
mutated, overexpressed, or otherwise critical proteins within the cancer cell. Prominent and

                                                52
non-limiting examples are the tyrosine kinase inhibitors imatinib (Gleevec/Glivec) and
gefitinib (Iressa). The use of small molecules e.g. sunitinib malate and/or sorafenib tosylate
targeting some kinases in combination with vaccines for cancer therapy is also described in
previous patent application US2009004213.
11. Virus-based vaccines
There are a number of virus-based cancer vaccines available or under development which can
be used in a combined therapeutic approach together with the formulations of the present
invention. One advantage of the use of such viral vectors is their intrinsic ability to initiate
immune responses, with inflammatory reactions occurring as a result of the viral infection
creating the danger signal necessary for immune activation. An ideal viral vector should be
safe and should not introduce an anti-vector immune response to allow for boosting
antitumour specific responses. Recombinant viruses such as vaccinia viruses, herpes simplex
viruses, adenoviruses, adeno-associated viruses, retroviruses and avipox viruses have been
used in animal tumour models and based on their encouraging results, human clinical trials
have been initiated. Especially important virus-based vaccines are virus-like particles (VLPs),
small particles that contain certain proteins from the outer coat of a virus. Virus-like particles
do not contain any genetic material from the virus and cannot cause an infection but they can
be constructed to present tumor antigens on their coat. VLPs can be derived from various
viruses such as e.g. the hepatitis B virus or other virus families including Parvoviridae (e.g.
adeno-associated virus), Retroviridae (e.g. HIV), and Flaviviridae (e.g. Hepatitis C virus). For
a general review see Sorensen and Thompsen 2007: Virus-based immunotherapy of cancer:
what do we know and where are we going? APMIS 115(11):1177-93; virus-like particles
against cancer are reviewed in Buonaguro et al. 2011: Developments in virus-like particle
based vaccines for infectious diseases and cancer. Expert Rev Vaccines 10(11):1569-83; and
in Guillen et al. 2010: Virus-like particles as vaccine antigens and adjuvants: application to
chronic disease, cancer immunotherapy and infectious disease preventive strategies. Procedia
in Vaccinology 2 (2), 128-133.
12. Multi-epitope strategies
The use of multi epitopes shows promising results for vaccination. Fast sequencing
technologies combined with intelligent algorithms systems allow the exploitation of the tumor
mutanome and may provide multi epitopes for individualized vaccines which can be
combined with the present invention. For more information see 2007: Vaccination of

                                                 53
metastatic colorectal cancer patients with matured dendritic cells loaded with multiple major
histocompatibility complex class I peptides. J Immunother 30: 762-772; furthermore Castle et
al. 2012: Exploiting the mutanome for tumor vaccination. Cancer Res 72 (5):1081-91.
13. Adoptive T cell transfer
For example, a combination of a tumor antigen vaccination and T cell transfer is described in:
Rapoport et al. 2011: Combination immunotherapy using adoptive T-cell transfer and tumor
antigen vaccination on the basis of hTERT and survivin after ASCT for myeloma. Blood
117(3):788-97.
14. Peptide-based target therapies
Peptides can bind to cell surface receptors or affected extracellular matrix surrounding the
tumor. Radionuclides which are attached to these peptides (e.g. RGDs) eventually kill the
cancer cell if the nuclide decays in the vicinity of the cell. Especially oligo- or multimers of
these binding motifs are of great interest, since this can lead to enhanced tumor specificity and
avidity. For non-limiting examples see Yamada 2011: Peptide-based cancer vaccine therapy
for prostate cancer, bladder cancer, and malignant glioma. Nihon Rinsho 69(9): 1657-61.
15. Other therapies
There are numerous other cancer therapies which can be combined with the formulations and
methods of the present invention in order to create synergistic effects. Non-limiting examples
are treatments targeting apoptosis, hyperthermia, hormonal therapy, telomerase therapy,
insulin potentiation therapy, gene therapy and photodynamic therapy.
The term "immunization" or "vaccination" describes the process of treating a subject for
therapeutic or prophylactic reasons.
The term "subject" relates to mammals. For example, mammals in the context of the present
invention are humans, non-human primates, domesticated animals such as dogs, cats, sheep,
cattle, goats, pigs, horses etc., laboratory animals such as mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, etc.
as well as animals in captivity such as animals of zoos. The term "animal" as used herein also
includes humans.

                                               54
The term "autologous" is used to describe anything that is derived from the same subject. For
example, "autologous transplant" refers to a transplant of tissue or organs derived from the
same subject. Such procedures are advantageous because they overcome the immunological
barrier which otherwise results in rejection.
The term "heterologous" is used to describe something consisting of multiple different
elements. As an example, the transfer of one individual's bone marrow into a different
individual constitutes a heterologous transplant. A heterologous gene is a gene derived from a
source other than the subject.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are preferably sterile and contain an
effective amount of the nanoparticles described herein and optionally of further agents as
discussed herein to generate the desired reaction or the desired effect.
The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be administered together with
supplementing immunity-enhancing substances such as one or more adjuvants and may
comprise one or more immunity-enhancing substances to further increase its effectiveness,
preferably to achieve a synergistic effect of immunostimulation. The term "adjuvant" relates
to compounds which prolongs or enhances or accelerates an immune response. Various
mechanisms are possible in this respect, depending on the various types of adjuvants. For
example, compounds which allow the maturation of the DC, e.g. lipopolysaccharides or CD40
ligand, form a first class of suitable adjuvants. Generally, any agent which influences the
immune system of the type of a "danger signal" (LPS, GP96, dsRNA etc.) or cytokines, such
as GM-CSF, can be used as an adjuvant which enables an immune response to be intensified
and/or influenced in a controlled manner. CpG oligodeoxynucleotides can optionally also be
used in this context, although their side effects which occur under certain circumstances, as
explained above, are to be considered. Particularly preferred adjuvants are cytokines, such as
monokines, lymphokines, interleukins or chemokines, e.g. IL-I, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6,
IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-12, INFa, INF-7, GM-CSF, LT-a, or growth factors, e.g. hGH.
Further known adjuvants are aluminium hydroxide, Freund's adjuvant or oil such as
Montanide", most preferred Montanide* ISA51. Lipopeptides, such as Pam3Cys, are also
suitable for use as adjuvants in the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention.

                                                    55
Pharmaceutical compositions are usually provided in a uniform dosage form and may be
prepared in a manner known per se. The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may
e.g. be in the form of a solution or suspension.
The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may comprise salts, buffer substances,
preservatives, carriers, diluents and/or excipients all of which are preferably pharmaceutically
acceptable. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to the non-toxicity of a material
which does not interact with the action of the active component of the pharmaceutical
composition.
Salts which are not pharmaceutically acceptable may used for preparing pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and are included in the invention. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of this
kind comprise in a non limiting way those prepared from the following acids: hydrochloric,
hydrobromic, sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric, maleic, acetic, salicylic, citric, formic, malonic,
succinic acids, and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts may also be prepared as alkali
metal salts or alkaline earth metal salts, such as sodium salts, potassium salts or calcium salts.
Suitable buffer substances for use in the pharmaceutical composition of the invention include
acetic acid in a salt, citric acid in a salt, boric acid in a salt and phosphoric acid in a salt.
Suitable preservatives for use in the pharmaceutical composition of the invention include
benzalkonium chloride, chlorobutanol, paraben and thimerosal.
An injectible formulation may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient such as
Ringer Lactate.
The term "carrier" refers to an organic or inorganic component, of a natural or synthetic
nature, in which the active component is combined in order to facilitate, enhance or enable
application. According to the invention, the tenn "carrier" also includes one or more
compatible solid or liquid fillers, diluents or encapsulating substances, which are suitable for
administration to a patient.
Possible carrier substances for parenteral administration are e.g. sterile water, Ringer, Ringer
lactate, sterile sodium chloride solution, polyalkylene glycols, hydrogenated naphthalenes

                                                56
and,   in particular,   biocompatible    lactide polymers,      lactide/glycolide   copolymers  or
polyoxyethylene/polyoxy- propylene copolymers.
The term "excipient" when used herein is intended to indicate all substances which may be
present in a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention and which are not active
ingredients such as, e.g., carriers, binders, lubricants, thickeners, surface active agents,
preservatives, emulsifiers, buffers, flavoring agents, or colorants.
The agents and compositions described herein may be administered via any conventional
route, such as by parenteral administration including by injection or infusion. Administration
is preferably parenterally, e.g. intravenously, intraarterially, subcutaneously, intradermally or
intramuscularly.
The term "parenteral administration" refers to the administration in a manner other than
through the digestive      tract, as   by intravenous or intramuscular         injection. Systemic
administration is a route of administration that is either enteral, i.e. administration that
involves absorption through the gastrointestinal tract, or parenteral.
Compositions suitable for parenteral administration usually comprise a sterile aqueous or
nonaqueous preparation of the active compound, which is preferably isotonic to the blood of
the recipient. Examples of compatible carriers and solvents are Ringer solution and isotonic
sodium chloride solution. In addition, usually sterile, fixed oils are used as solution or
suspension medium.
The agents and compositions described herein are administered in effective amounts. An
"effective amount" refers to the amount which achieves a desired reaction or a desired effect
alone or together with further doses. In the case of treatment of a particular disease or of a
particular condition, the desired reaction preferably relates to inhibition of the course of the
disease. This comprises slowing down the progress of the disease and, in particular,
interrupting or reversing the progress of the disease. The desired reaction in a treatment of a
disease or of a condition may also be delay of the onset or a prevention of the onset of said
disease or said condition.
An effective amount of an agent or composition described herein will depend on the condition

                                                57
to be treated, the severeness of the disease, the individual parameters of the patient, including
age, physiological condition, size and weight, the duration of treatment, the type of an
accompanying therapy (if present), the specific route of administration and similar factors.
Accordingly, the doses administered of the agents described herein may depend on various of
such parameters. In the case that a reaction in a patient is insufficient with an initial dose,
higher doses (or effectively higher doses achieved by a different, more localized route of
administration) may be used.
The present invention is described in detail by the figures and examples below, which are
used only for illustration purposes and are not meant to be limiting. Owing to the description
and the examples, further embodiments which are likewise included in the invention are
accessible to the skilled worker.
FIGURES
Figure 1: Size of F4/RNA lipoplexes at different DOTMA/RNA charge ratios (2/1, 1/1, 1/2,
1/4) in water (a), PBS (b) and in PBS after addition of 2.2 mM CaCl 2 (c) and 22 mM CaCl 2
(d).
Figure 2: Particle sizes of DOTMA/Chol liposomes (F5) and lipoplexes at different buffers
and DOTMA/RNA charge ratios 1/1 and 2/1 (positive excess).
Figure 3: Mean size of F5/RNA lipoplexes at charge ratios (1/1) and (1/2) after compaction
of RNA using different amounts of CaCl2.
Figure 4:    Overview of selected results from physico-chemical characterization of RNA
lipoplexes with DOTMA/DOPE liposomes. The x-axis gives the charge ratio between
DOTMA and RNA. Top: particle size from PCS measurements, middle: polydispersity index,
bottom: zeta potentials of the same formulations. The lines have been introduced to guide the
eye.
Figure 5: (a) Mean size of F4/Luc-RNA lipoplexes at the charge ratio (1/2) in water and after
addition of concentrated buffer to PBS (1x), sodium chloride (150 mM), glucose (5 %) or
phosphate buffered glucose. In contrast to the 1/1-ratio, which leads to aggregation under all
buffer conditions (not shown here), the particle sizes of the lipoplexes at the 1/2 ratio were

                                               58
approximately 220 nm. (b) Polydispersity of size ranged from 0.23 to 0.34 indicating colloidal
stability.
Figure 6:    (a) Mean size of F4/RNA lipoplexes at selected DOTMA/RNA charge ratios.
Particle sizes of lipoplexes with charge ratios between 1:1.8 and 1:1.4 were approximately
160 nm. With decreasing negative excess (charge ratio 1:1.2) particle size was determined to
183 nm. (b) All tested charge ratios leads to lipoplexes with small polydispersity indices less
than 0.2.
Figure 7: (a) Mean Size of DOTMA/DOPE liposomes (1:2) in water without extrusion (F4
raw), after extrusion using a polycarbonate membrane with a pore diam. of 400 nm (F4-400),
200 nm (F4-200), 100 nm (F4-100) or 50 nm (F4-50). Corresponding lipoplexes with a
DOTMA/RNA charge ratio of 1/2 in water (2:) and in PBS buffer (3:). (b) Polydispersity of
size of the lipoplexes with extruded liposomes ranged from 0.10 to 0.28. However, lipoplexes
formed by un-extruded liposomes also showed a sufficiently narrow size distribution.
Figure 8: Mean size (a) and Polydispersity Index (b) of DOTMA/DOPE liposomes (F4)
determined before lyophilization and after lyophilization and reconstitution using water.
Figure 9: Particle size of liposomes with different DOTMA/DOPE ratios. For liposomes with
high DOPE (90%) fraction, the particles are unstable in PBS and aggregate.
Figure 10: Particle size of lipoplexes with liposomes comprising different DOTMA/DOPE
ratios. With the DOTMA/DOPE ratio from 9/1 to 4/6, the lipoplexes have defined particle
sizes (<300 nm) with low PI values (<0.2). With higher DOPE fraction, larger particle sizes
with high PI values are obtained.
Figure 11: Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo after injection into BALB/c mice of
luciferase-RNA (20pg) complexed with different amounts of F4 liposomes to yield F4:RNA
ratios of 4.8:1, 2.4:1, 1.2:1, 1.2:2, 1.2:4.
Figure 12: Distribution of total luciferase signal among organs derived from the experiment
depicted in Figure 11.

                                              59
Figure 13: Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo after injection into BALB/c mice of
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) complexed with F 11 or F12 liposomes.
Figure 14: Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo after injection into BALB/c mice of
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) complexed with F2 or F5 liposomes.
Figure 15: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) diluted in IX PBS (A) or undiluted in water (B and C) complexed
with F4 liposomes diluted in IX PBS (B) or undiluted in water (A and C) with an F4:RNA
ratio of 1.2:2. The final PBS concentrations of all complexes were set to IX PBS.
Figure 16: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA (2 0pjg) precomplexed with 0.125 or 1mM CaCl 2 or without precomplexation
and mixed with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2.
Figure 17: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) or F4 liposomes diluted in IX PBS or 154mM NaCl and mixed with
an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2.
Figure 18: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) precomplexed with 1-4 mM CaCl 2 and mixed with F4 liposomes
with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2 using 154mM NaCl instead of 1X PBS as dilution buffer.
Figure 19: (A) Luciferase-RNA (5ptg) was incubated in 25 or 50% mouse serum for 30 min.
and then electroporated into human monocyte derived immature DCs. Luciferase activity was
assessed 18 h later via standard in vitro luciferase assay. (B) Luciferase-RNA (20pg) was
complexed via standard protocol with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2 and then
incubated in the presence or absence of 50% mouse serum for 30 min. BALB/c mice were
injected intravenously with these formulations and luciferase activities in vivo were quantified
from spleens of mice.
Figure 20: Assessment of the uptake of Cy5-RNA or F4-rho by cell populations in spleen
after injection into BALB/c mice of Cy5-RNA (40pjg) complexed with F4 liposomes labeled
with Rhodamine (F4-rho) (1.2:2; Liposome:RNA).

                                                60
Figure 21: Assessment of the (A) maturation status of dendritic cells (revealed by
upregulation of CD86 and CD40) and (B) serum concentrations of IFNa and TNFa after
injection into C57BL/6 mice of HA-RNA (40pg) complexed with F4 (1.2:2; Liposome:RNA),
F4 alone or PBS (as control).
Figure 22: Assessment of the (A) frequencies of antigen specific CD8' T cells and (B)
memory recall responses after immunization of C57BL/6 mice with SIINFEKL-RNA (20 or
40pg) complexed with F4 liposomes at different liposome:RNA ratios.
Figure 23: Kaplan-Meier survival curves of C57BL/6 mice which received three intravenous
immunizations of SIINFEKL-RNA (40pjg) complexed with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA
ratio of 1.2:2 or were left untreated and into which were injected 2x10 5 B 16-OVA tumor cells
s.c. into the flanks.
Figure 24: Individual tumor growth after s.c. inoculation of 2x1 05 B16-OVA tumor cells into
the flanks of C57/B16 mice which received seven intravenous immunizations of SIINFEKL
RNA (40pg) complexed with F4 or F12 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2. Liposomes
alone without SIINFEKL-RNA were used as control treatment.
Figure 25: Kaplan-Meier survival curves after s.c. inoculation of 2x105 B16-OVA tumor cells
into the flanks of C57/B16 mice which received seven intravenous immunizations of
SIINFEKL-RNA (40ig) complexed with F4 or F12 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2.
Liposomes alone without SIINFEKL-RNA were used as control treatment.
Figure 26: Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo after injection into BALB/c mice of
luciferase-RNA (20pg) complexed with different amounts of F5 liposomes to yield F5:RNA
ratios of 4.8:1, 2.4:1, 1.2:1, 1.2:2, 1.2:4.
Figure 27: Distribution of total luciferase signal among organs derived from the experiment
depicted in Figure 26.
Figure 28: Preformulation of RNA and reconstitution of RNA-lipoplex solution.

                                               61
Figure 29: Results of DLS measurements of RNA lipoplexes reconstituted according the
clinical formulation protocol. Limited spread of received lipoplex particle sizes demonstrates
the robustness of the procedure of mixing.
Figure 30: Particle size and Polydispersity Index of 1:2 lipoplexes of extruded and non
extruded liposomal precursors.
Figure 31: Luciferase activities in vivo after injection into BALB/c mice of luciferace-RNA
(20 tg) complexed with small or big liposomes in PBS to achieve lipoplexes different in size.
Figure 32: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA lipoplexes different in size. Lager lipoplexes, assembled from larger
liposomes, have higher activity, independent from the lipid composition of the liposomes.
Figure 33: Lipoplexes formed by using NaCI and PBS buffer in 'normal'                  and 1Ox
concentrated form. In the latter case, a 10-fold lower volume was added to obtain the same
final concentration. All lipoplexes have about the same size but those from concentrated
solutions are a bit smaller.
Figure 34: Activity (luc expression) of the lipoplexes measured in Figure 33. As a trend, the
lipoplexes from non-concentrated buffers are higher in activity. Treatment with normal saline
yields highest activity.
Figure 35: Lipoplexes        formed after addition of the NaCl to the RNA at different
concentrations. The final NaCl concentration was in all cases the same, as from the
concentrated solutions lower volumes were added. As a trend, the lipolex size increases with
decreasing concentration of the added NaCI solution. As larger lipoplexes are higher in
activity than smaller ones, use of 0.9% NaCl (150 mM) is considered to result in the best
activity.
Figure 36: Size (Zave) and Polydispersity Index (PI), for lipoplexes with different mixing
ratios (DOTMA/nucleotide ratios), directly after reconstitution, and after 2h and 24 h.

                                               62
Figure 37: Results of DLS measurements of RNA lipoplexes with different charge ratios
tested in vivo.
Figure 38: Quantification of luciferase activities in spleens of mice after injection of
Luciferase-RNA lipoplexes different in size.
EXAMPLES
The techniques and methods used herein are described herein or carried out in a manner
known per se and as described, for example, in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual,    2 id Edition (1989) Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, N.Y. All methods including the use of kits and reagents are carried out according to
the manufacturers' information unless specifically indicated.
Example 1: Materials and methods
Liposome preparation
Manufacturing of liposomes was performed by different protocols. The 'film method' or
'ethanol injection' was used for liposome preparation. For the film method, the lipids were
dissolved in chloroform and put in appropriate amounts into a round bottom flask. The
organic solvent was evaporated in a rotary evaporator and the dry film was reconstituted with
water or buffer/excipient solution by gently shaking of the flask. Typically, a total lipid
concentration of 5 mM was selected. For ethanol injection, the lipids were dissolved at
suitable molar ratios in ethanol to a total concentration in the range of 100-400 mM. The
ethanol solution was injected under stirring into water or the aqueous solution of
buffers/excipients. The size of the liposomes was adjusted by extrusion across polycarbonate
membranes     of different pore size (50-400 nm), and/or they           were filtered through
commercially available sterile filters of 220-450 nm pore size, or filters for clinical use with
other pore     sizes (1pjm-5tm) were used        (Sartorius, Gottingen,   Germany, Millipore,
Schwalbach, Germany).
The final lipid concentration in the aqueous phase was between 5 mM and 25 mM. Lipid
composition was controlled by HPLC analysis. Particle size and zeta potential were
determined by dynamic light scattering.

                                                63
Lipoplex formation
Lipoplex formation was performed by different protocols. The detailed procedure is given
with the individual experiments. For several experiments, direct incubation of RNA solutions
with liposome solutions in water or in the presence of buffers or excipients was performed.
Lipoplexes could also be formed by mixing of lipid solutions in ethanol with RNA solutions
in water or aqueous buffer/excipient solutions. The selected preparation protocol depended on
the desired particle characteristics and biological application and is further described with the
respective experiments.
PCS measuiements
Particle size and zeta potential measurements were performed on a 380 ZLS submicron
particle / zeta potential analyzer (PSS Nicomp, Santa Barbara, CA). Size was detennined by
Photon correlation spectroscopy (PCS) at a scattering angle of 900 with an equilibration time
of 2 min and run times of 15 min.        Auto correlation was performed using the intensity
weighted Gaussian analysis, which gives information about the mean diameter of the bulk
population and the polydispersity index (PI).
Zeta potential
Zeta potential was measured in water using electric field strength of 5 V/cm and an electrode
spacing of 0.4 cm. The electrostatic mobility was converted to the zeta potential using the
Helmholtz-Smoluchowski equation. All measurements were carried out at a temperature of
23 C.
Field-Flow-Fractionation
Asymmetrical Flow FFF (AF4) was performed using the Eclipse 3+ system equipped with a
long channel (275 mm length) and the triple-angle MALS light scattering detector miniDA WN
TREOS (Wyatt Technologie, Dernbach, Germany) using the following hardware/parameters:
Membrane:              10 kD regenerated cellulose (Microdyn Nadir, Wiesbaden, Germany)
Spacer:                250 pm spacer (wide 21.5 mm)
Solvent:               10 mM NaNO3
Detector flow:         1.0 mL/min
Focus flow:            1.5 mL/min

                                             64
Injection flow:       0.2 mL/min
Cross flow gradient: 4 mL/min (fixed for 15 min, than 4 mL/min to 0.1 mL/min in 20 min).
Animals
C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice were from Jackson Laboratories. Age (8-10 weeks old) and sex
(female) matched animals were used throughout the experiments.
Cells and cell lines
B16-OVA is a B16-F10 melanoma cell line expressing the chicken ovalbumin gene (OVA).
Human monocyte derived immature DCs (iDC) were differentiated from purified CD14+
monocytes in the presence of IL-4 (1000 U/nil) and GM-CSF (1000 U/ml) for 5 days.
RNA constructs and in vitro transcription
All plasmids for in vitro transcription of naked antigen-encoding RNA were based on the
pST1-2hBgUTR-A120 backbone which feature a 3' human p-globin UTR (hBgUTR) and a
poly(A) tail of 120 nucleotides and allow generation of pharmacologically improved in vitro
transcribed RNA. The SIINFEKL construct contains aa 257-264 of chicken OVA. HA
construct was a codon optimized partial sequence of influenza HA (aa 60-285 fused to aa 517
527; influenza strain A/PR/8/34) designed to combine major immunodominant MHC
epitopes. pSTI-Luciferase-A120 (Luc) contains the firefly luciferase gene (15). RNA was
generated by in vitro transcription. Labeling of RNA with Cy5-UTP (Cy5-RNA) was
conducted    according   to   the  manufacturer's    instructions (Amersham    Biosciences,
Buckinghamshire, UK) using the HA construct as template.
Preparation and injection of lipoplexes
Unless otherwise stated, as standard protocol, RNAs and Liposomes were prediluted in IX
RNase free phosphate buffered saline (PBS) (Ambion) to a final volume of 100pl prior to
mixing. 10 minutes after mixing of diluted RNA and liposome, 200pl lipoplex solution was
injected per mouse intravenously. For some experiments, PBS was replaced with 154mM
RNease free NaCl (Ambion)

                                             65
Flow cytometric analysis
Monoclonal antibodies for flow cytometry were from BD Pharmingen. Hypotonicly lysed
blood samples were incubated at 4'C with specific mABs. Spleen cells were obtained by
digestion with collagenase (1 mg/ml; Roche). Quantification of SIINFEKL-specific CD8*
cells with H-2 Kb/SIINFEKL tetramer (Beckman-Coulter) was previously described. Flow
cytometric data were acquired on a FACS-Canto II analytical flow cytometer and analyzed by
using FlowJo (Tree Star) software.
Electroporation
50tl of RNA solution was electroporated into iDCs with electoporation parameters of 270V
and 150pF using BioRad electroporator.
In vivo bioluminescence imaging (BLI)
Uptake and translation of Luc-RNA were evaluated by in vivo bioluminescence imaging using
the IVIS Lumina imaging system (Caliper Life Sciences). Briefly, an aqueous solution of D
luciferin (150 mg/kg body weight) (BD Biosciences) was injected i.p. 6h after administration
of RNA lipoplexes. 5 min thereafter, emitted photons were quantified (integration time of 1
min). In vivo bioluminescence in regions of interest (ROI) were quantified as average
radiance (photons/sec/cm 2/sr) using IVIS Living Image 4.0 Software. The intensity of
transmitted light originating   from luciferase expressing cells within the animal was
represented as a grayscale image, where black is the least intense and white the most intense
bioluminescence signal. Grayscale reference images of mice were obtained under LED low
light illumination. The images were superimposed using the Living Image 4.0 software.
ELISA
Mouse IFN-a (PBL) and TNFa (eBioscience) was detected in mouse sera using standard
ELISA assay according to manufacturer's instructions.
Tumor experiments
To determine protective immunity, mice received three immunizations. Thereafter, 2 x 105
B16-OVA tumor cells were inoculated s.c. into the flanks of C57BL/6 mice. For assessment
of therapeutic immunity, first same numbers of tumor cells were inoculated. Immunizations
were then initiated after tumors had reached a diameter of 2 to 3 mm. Tumor sizes were

                                               66
measured every three days. Animals were sacrificed when the diameter of the tumor exceeded
15mm.
Example 2: Effect of buffers/ions on particle sizes and P1 of RNA lipoplexes
Lipoplexes of liposomes and RNA at different charge ratios +/- between the cationic
(positively charged) lipid DOTMA and the negatively charged RNA were prepared. The
physiochemical characteristics of the liposomes were investigated by dynamic light scattering
(PCS) and zeta potential measurements.
The use of buffer which is often necessary for pharmaceutical applications and ions can lead
to aggregation of lipoplexes which makes them unsuitable for parenteral application to
patients. In order to evaluate these effects on the average diameter of lipoplexes, the particle
characteristics of lipoplexes of DOTMA/DOPE (F4) liposomes [DOTMA/DOPE                      (1:1
mol:mol)] and RNA at different charge ratios were determined under four buffer conditions,
namely, water, PBS buffer, PBS plus 2.2 mM CaCl 2, and PBS plus 22 mM CaCl 2. For the
measurements, briefly, lipoplexes were formed by adding of RNA to preformed liposomes,
subsequently the buffers were added. The final RNA concentration was selected to about 100
pg/ml. All other concentrations were adjusted accordingly or selected as given in the figures.
Particle sizes are shown in Figure 1. The DOTMA/RNA charge ratio is given on the x-axis of
each chart.
(a) In water, lipoplexes of defined particle sizes (mean size less than 300 nm), with low
polydispersity indices (< 0.3) were obtained. The measured particle sizes were only slightly
affected by the charge ratio. However, negatively charged particles are smaller (mean size 100
to 200 nm) and more stable (PI < 0.15) than uncharged particles (mean size 200 to 250 nm, PI
< 0.2).
(b) In PBS buffer, the same effect is more prominent. Lipoplexes with a positive or neutral
charge ratio form larger particles (partially stabilized by the positive charges). Lipoplexes
with a neutral charge ratio are building unstable aggregates. In contrast, negatively charged
lipoplexes are both stable (as indicated by a low PI < 0.2) and compact with average particle
sizes of 250 nm and less.

                                                67
(c) After addition of CaCl2 an increase in the particle sizes is observable. However, at
physiological Ca+* concentrations (shown: 2.2 mM; in some cell types the physiological
concentration can be up to 5 mM, rarely up to 10 mM) negatively charged particles still have
defined sizes below 500 nm with a polydispersity index not exceeding 0.6. For the sample
with excess positive charge the size increased almost to 1000 nm.
(d) Addition of 22 mM CaCl 2 to the samples b) (PBS) induced aggregation /flocculation
under all conditions, supposedly due to formation of calcium phosphate particles.
These results demonstrate that in buffered solutions such as i.e. in PBS buffer and/or in the
presence of CaCl 2 , positive or neutral charge ratios are poorly suited for the production of
stable liposomal formulations. The stability of lipoplexes highly depends on the charge ratio
+/- between the cationic DOTMA lipid and the charged RNA. In addition, both the ionic
strength of the formulation buffer and the presence of bivalent cations have strong influences
on particle sizes. Under physiological conditions (i.e. pH 7.4; 2.2 mM Ca+*), a negative
charge ratio appears to be imperative due to the instability of neutral or positively charged
lipoplexes. For lipoplexes with excess negative charge the lowest trend for aggregation was
observed.
Example 3: Effect of positive charge on stability of RNA lipoplexes
For an additional evaluation of a potential beneficial/detrimental effect of positive charges on
the stability of lipoplexes (see e.g. Figure 1 b and c), particle sizes of lipoplexes of
DOTMA/Chol liposomes (F5) [DOTMA/Chol (1:1 mol:mol)] and RNA with DOTMA/RNA
charge ratios of 1/1 and 2/1 were measured in different buffers (see               Figure 2). For
comparison, also the size of the pure liposomes was measured.
In 150 mM sodium chloride as well as in PBS buffer a positive 2/1 DOTMA/RNA charge
ratio leads to largely increased/aggregated particle sizes with a polydispersity index greater
than 0.4. This result indicates that positive charges are not suitable to stabilize lipoplexes and
that aggregation has to be expected for the positively charged lipoplexes also under
physiological conditions.

                                                 68
Example 4: Influence of pre-compaction of RNA mediated by bivalent cations on the
particle size of RNA lipoplexes
To test the influence of pre-compaction of RNA using divalent cations prior to the
complexation, the particle size of F5/RNA lipoplexes at charge ratios (1/1) and (1/2) were
determined after compaction of the RNA with different amounts of CaCl 2. Contrary to
Examples 2 and 3 here the ions were added to the RNA prior to lipoplex formation. The final
liposome concentration was in all cases 100 pM, and the RNA concentration was adjusted
accordingly. Because for the F5/RNA 1/2 the RNA concentration was doubled, here also the
CaCl 2 concentration was doubled.
After pre-treatment      of the   uncharged    RNA/F5     (1:1)   lipoplexes   with physiological
concentrations of CaCl2 (i.e. 2.2 mM), the average size of the resulting lipoplex particle is
inflated (i.e. to 1.2 pm); see Figure 3. Due to this large size, such particles are not ideally
suited for pharmaceutical compositions and/or the delivery of RNA into cells. In contrast,
both pre-compaction        experiments   with   negatively   charged    lipoplexes  and   low/high
concentrations (low: 0.3 mM; high: 4.4 mM) of CaCl2 produced small-sized particles of
approximately 200 (350) nm.
These results indicate that RNA can be precondensed with bivalent ions. Due to this
precondensation step, lipoplexes with defined and compact particle sizes can be formed at
negative charge ratios; aggregation or substantial increase of particle size can be prevented.
Example 5: Physico-chemical characterization of RNA lipoplexes
In Figure 4, results from physico-chemical characterization of RNA lipoplexes with F4
(DOTMA/DOPE) at different charge ratios +/- between DOTMA and RNA are given. As can
be seen for negatively charged lipoplexes, at +/- ratios of 1/1 and above, the particle size is
constant at about 200 nm. The zeta potential decreases monotonously from +/- 2/1 to 1/1, and
it remains constant at higher excess negative charge. These results suggest that important
particle characteristics, namely particle size and zeta potential, are invariant with excess RNA,

                                                 69
starting from the 1/1 ratio. In this range, colloidal stable particles of well-defined size can be
manufactured. Similar results can also be obtained in the presence of ions and buffers (PBS).
Example 6: Effect of buffer composition on stability/particle size of negatively charged
RNA lipoplexes
The stability of lipoplexes in different buffers was further investigated to detail. To test if an
excess of negative charge leads to colloidal stable lipoplexes in potential relevant buffer
systems, particle sizes of F4/Luc-RNA lipoplexes at the charge ratio (1/2) in water and after
addition of concentrated buffer to PBS (1x), sodium chloride (150 mM), glucose (5 %) or
phosphate buffered glucose were determined (see Figure 5).
Under all tested conditions, particle sizes are not exceeding 300 nm with PI values of clearly
less than 0.4. These results suggest that, if manufactured according to the present invention,
RNA lipoplexes with a charge ratio of 1/2 (excess of negatively charged RNA) are colloidally
stable under different buffer conditions.
Example 7: Correlation of negative charge ratio and particle size/stability
The colloidal stability of the lipoplexes at the ratio between (1/1) and (1/2) was further
investigated. Particle sizes of F4/RNA lipoplexes with charge ratios between 1:1.8 and 1:1.2
were measured in water; see Figure 6.
These results suggest that in the range of the tested charge ratios the particle size of lipoplexes
are invariant to minor changes in excess RNA. In connection with the tested (negative) charge
ratios of 1:1.2 to 1:1.8, particles sizes are generally in the 100 to 200 nm range with P1 values
of less than 0.2.
Example 8: Effect of extrusion on mean particle size and PI values of RNA lipoplexes

                                               70
In this experiment it is shown that lipoplexes of different size can be produced. In order to
determine the effect of an additional extrusion step on mean particle size and PI values of
liposomes or RNA lipoplexes, extrusion experiments (using a polycarbonate membrane with
different pore diameters) were performed. Results from particle sizing of RNA lipoplexes
with un-extruded F4 (DOTMA/DOPE) and with extruded F4 in water or PBS are shown in
Figure 7.
The experiments demonstrate that, in addition to the already described size range of 200-300
nm, also larger and smaller particles can be produced. Here, as an example particles with size
in the range of 400-500 nm and <100 nm were are given.
Whereas non-extruded RNA lipoplexes show average particle sizes between 400 and 500 nm,
extruding of RNA lipoplexes generally leads to significantly smaller particles with sizes of
less than 200 nm. In contrast, the effect of extrusion on the polydispersity is marginal; both
extruded and non-extruded liposomes lead to discrete, well defined particles (with PI values
between 0.1 and 0.3), if complexed with RNA.
Example 9: Effect of lyophilization on the particle characteristics
Lipoplexes are not stable in liquid suspension for long-term storage and aggregate.
Lyophilization is one technique to address this challenge. The effect of lyophilization on the
particle characteristics was investigated. Particle sizes of DOTMA/DOPE liposomes (F4)
were determined before lyophilization and after lyophilization and reconstitution with water
(see Figure 8).
These results suggest, that the lipoplexes can be lyophilized without affection the particle
characteristics.
Example 10: Effect of DOTMA/DOPE ratio on the particle characteristics
Liposomes and lipoplexes       with different DOTMA/DOPE          ratios were   manufactured.
Liposomes with very high DOPE fraction (90 mol%) were unstable in PBS (Figure 9). For

                                                71
lipoplexes, already at a DOPE fraction of 70 mol%, the particle size significantly increased
(Figure 10). All other compositions were stable.
Example 11: In vivo administration of RNA lipoplexes
BALB/c mice (n=3) were injected intravenously with Luciferase-RNA (20tg) complexed
with different amounts of F4 liposomes to yield F4:RNA ratios of 4.8:1, 2.4:1, 1.2:1, 1.2:2,
1.2:4. Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo were assessed via in vivo imaging 6 hours after
lipoplex injection and representative mice and organ sets are shown in Figure 11. Figure 12
shows the distribution of total luciferase signal among organs derived from the experiment
depicted in Figure 11.
F4 (DOTMA:DOPE) goes more to lungs (a little spleen) at the ratio of F4:RNA of 4.8:1, to
both lungs and spleen at the ratio of F4:RNA of 2.4:1 and exclusively to spleen at ratios of
F4:RNA of 1.2:1, 1.2:2, 1.2:4. Thus, neutral and anionic lipoplexes target specifically to
spleen whereas cationic lipoplexes primarily target lung (wrt to protein expression). No
expression in liver was detected.
BALB/c mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with Luciferase-RNA (20p1g) complexed
with F1I or Fl1 liposomes with an Fx:RNA ratio of 1.2:2 [F1l: DOTMA/DOPE (1:2
mol:mol); F12: DOTMA/DOPE (2:1 mol:mol)]. Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo were
assessed via in vivo imaging 6 hours after lipoplex injection and representative mice and
organ sets are shown in Figure 13. F4 derivatives FI1 and F12 also target to spleen at an
liposome:RNA ratio of 1.2:2.
BALB/c mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with Luciferase-RNA (20pig) complexed
with F2 or F5 liposomes with an Fx:RNA ratio of 1:1 [F2: DOTAP/DOPE (1:1 mol:mol); F5:
DOTMA/Chol (1:1 mol:mol)]. Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo were assessed via in
vivo imaging 6 hours after lipoplex injection and representative mice and organ sets are
shown in Figure 14. At liposome:RNA ratio of 1:1, while F2 targets to spleen, F5 targets to
both spleen and lungs.

                                               72
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) diluted in IX PBS (A) or undiluted in water (B and C) was
complexed with F4 liposomes diluted in IX PBS (B) or undiluted in water (A and C) with an
F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2. The final PBS concentrations of all complexes were set to IX PBS.
BALB/c mice (n=5) were then injected intravenously with A, B or C and luciferase activities
in spleens of mice were quantified via in vivo imaging (Mean + SD); see Figure 15.
As a standard mixing protocol, both liposomes and RNA are diluted in PBS (IX PBS final
conc.) and then mixed at equal volumes. Predilution of only RNA is as good as standard
protocol. All other protocols lacking predilution of RNA in PBS yielded poorer results.
Presence of ions in RNA solution prior to complexation is preferred for achieving good
results
Luciferase-RNA (2 0pg) precomplexed with 0.125 or 1mM CaCl 2 or without precomplexation
was mixed via standard protocol with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2. BALB/c
mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with these formulations and luciferase activities in
vivo were quantified from spleens of mice (Mean + SD); see Figure 16.
Precondensation of RNA with 1mM CaCl2 when PBS is used as a buffer increases the
luciferase signal 3-fold (Higher concentrations of CaCl 2 in the presence of PBS leads to large
particles-aggregates). Precondensation of RNA with Ca2         helps to increase the luciferase
signal.
Luciferase-RNA (20pg) or F4 liposomes diluted in IX PBS or 154mM NaCl were mixed with
an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2. BALB/c mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with these
formulations and luciferase activities in vivo were quantified from spleens of mice (Mean +
SD); see Figure 17.
Using standard mixing protocol, replacement of PBS with isoosmolar NaCl worked as good
as PBS.
Luciferase-RNA (20ptg) precomplexed with 1-4 mM CaCl 2 was mixed using standard
protocol with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2 using 154mM NaCl instead of IX
PBS as dilution buffer. BALB/c mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with these

                                               73
formulations and luciferase activities in vivo were quantified from spleens of mice (Mean +
SD); see Figure 18.
When PBS is replaced with NaCl, 2mM CaCl2 can be used leading to 4.5-fold increase
(higher concentrations of CaCl2 do not further increase the signal).
Luciferase-RNA (5pg) was incubated in 25 or 50% mouse serum for 30 min. and then
electroporated into human monocyte derived immature DCs. Luciferase activity was assessed
18 h later via standard in vitro luciferase assay (Mean + SD); see Figure 19A. Luciferase
RNA (20ptg) was complexed via standard protocol with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio
of 1.2:2 and then incubated in the presence or absence of 50% mouse serum for 30 min.
BALB/c mice (n=5) were injected intravenously with these formulations and luciferase
activities in vivo were quantified from spleens of mice (Mean + SD); see Figure 19B.
Naked RNA is degraded in the presence of serum. Complexation of RNA with F4 liposomes
protect it from RNase mediated degradation in serum.
BALB/c mice (n=3) were injected intravenously with Cy5-RNA (40 jg) complexed with F4
liposomes labeled with Rhodamine (F4-rho) (1.2:2; Liposome:RNA). Uptake of Cy5-RNA or
F4-rho by cell populations in spleen was assessed by flow cytometry 1 hour after lipoplex
injection; see Figure 20.
As professional antigen presenting cells (APCs), splenic DCs and macrophages efficiently
internalized the liposome encapsulated RNA and the liposome itself while B and T cells
hardly internalized neither the liposome encapsulated RNA nor the liposome itself. Thus,
RNA lipoplexes are selectively internalized by splenic APCs
C57BL/6 mice (n=3) were injected with HA-RNA (40pg) complexed with F4 (1.2:2;
Liposome:RNA), F4 alone or PBS (as control); see Figure 21. (A) Maturation status of
dendritic cells (revealed by upregulation of CD86 and CD40) in spleen was determined by
flow cytometry 24 hours after treatments (Mean + SD). (B) Serum concentrations of IFNa and
TNFa were assessed via ELISA 6 and 24 hours after treatments (Mean + SD).

                                              74
As revealed by upregulation of activation markers (CD86, CD40) on DCs, RNA-F4
lipoplexes actived splenic DCs while liposome alone did not. Interestingly, although RNA-F4
lipoplexes were detected in 5-10% of splenic DCs in a previous experiment, all DCs were
activated in spleen implying for the existence of an inflammatory milieu in spleen upon
delivery. In all animals injected with RNA-lipoplexes, we could detect a high amount of IFNa
in blood 6h (also after 24h although in much lower quantities). We could also detect TNFa but
at very moderate levels in all animals injected with RNA-lipoplexes (only after 6h). The
secretion of cytokines is specific to RNA-lipoplexes as neither the PBS nor the liposome
alone did not lead to any significant cytokine secretion (baseline). Thus, RNA lipoplexes
activate splenic DCs leading to systemic inflammation
C57BL/6 mice (n=5) were immunized intravenously with SIINFEKL-RNA (20 or 40pag)
complexed with F4 liposomes at different liposome:RNA ratios on days 0, 3, 8 and 15; see
Figure 22. (A) The frequencies of antigen specific CD8' T cells were determined via
SIINFEKL-MHC tetramer staining 5 days after the last immunization (Day 20) (Mean + SD).
(B) Memory recall responses were assessed via SIINFEKL-MHC tetramer staining on Day 62
after another injection of F4-RNA lipoplexes on Day 57 (Mean + SD).
High order of antigen-specific       T cell immunity could be generated after repetitive
immunization with F4 lipoplexes (A). 6 weeks after the last immunization (d57), a boost
lipoplex injection was able to expand CD8 T cell memory formed in the former injections (B).
F4 (1.2:1) complexes formed aggregates while F4 (1.2:2) complexes were clear. Preferred is
F4 (1.2:2) with 40ptg RNA. Thus, strong T cell effector and memory responses can be
generated with RNA-lipoplexes
On days 0, 3 and 8, C57BL/6 mice (n = 3) received three intravenous immunizations of
SIINFEKL-RNA (40ig) complexed with F4 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2 or left
untreated. On day 14, 2x10 5 B16-OVA tumor cells were injected s.c. into the flanks. Kaplan
Meier survival curves are shown in Figure 23.
Complete protection was achieved with RNA lipoplex administration in the prophylactic B 16
OVA model.

                                                75
2x10 5 B 16-OVA tumor cells were inoculated s.c. into the flanks of C57/B16 mice (n   = 10, d0).
At day 10 (tumor diameter 2-3mm), mice received seven intravenous immunizations of
SIINFEKL-RNA (40pg) complexed with F4 or F12 liposomes with an F4:RNA ratio of 1.2:2
(on days 10, 13, 17, 24, 31, 38, 45). Liposomes alone without SIINFEKL-RNA were used as
control treatment. Individual tumor growth and Kaplan-Meier survival curves are shown in
Figures 24 and 25, respectively.
In a therapeutic model, significantly delayed tumor growth for F4+RNA or F12+RNA groups
was detected. Shrinkage of tumors after three immunizations were observed for both groups.
BALB/c mice (n=3) were injected intravenously with Luciferase-RNA (20pg) complexed
with different amounts of F5 liposomes to yield F5:RNA ratios of 4.8:1, 2.4:1, 1.2:1, 1.2:2,
1.2:4. Luciferase activities in vivo and ex vivo were assessed via in vivo imaging 6 hours after
lipoplex injection and representative mice and organ sets are shown in Figure 26. Figure 27
shows the distribution of total luciferase signal among organs derived from the experiment
depicted in Figure 26.
F5 (DOTMA:Chol) goes to lungs at the ratio of F5:RNA of 4.8:1, to primarily lungs but also
to spleen at the ratio of F5:RNA (2.4:1), to primarily spleen but also to lungs at the ratio of
F5:RNA (1.2:1) and to exclusively to spleen at ratios of F5:RNA (1.2:2, 1.2:4). Neutral and
anionic lipoplexes target more specifically to spleen whereas cationic lipoplexes primarily
target lung (wrt to protein expression). No expression in liver was detected.
Example 12: Clinical formulation of lipoplexes
The formulation following the previously established protocol consists of two steps, namely
the preformulation of a given RNA by using isotonic sodium chloride solution as diluent and
the lipoplex formation by adding a defined amount of liposomes. For preformulation, first 4
ml sodium chloride (0.9 % w/w in water) solution will be taken out of the NaCl vial by a
syringe and added to the RNA. Then, 400 iL of liposomes (2.8 mg/mL total lipid in water)
will be taken out of the liposome vial and injected using a cannula (inner diameter of 0.9 mm)
into the solution of RNA and sodium chloride. The obtained RNA lipoplex formulation (5.5
ml) can be administered either, by direct parenteral injection of the desired dose as well as

                                                76
after preparation of an intravenous infusion. To this end, from the RNA lipoplex formulation,
5.0 mL will be taken and diluted to an infusion bag containing 50 ml of isotonic sodium
chloride solution. By this protocol, lipoplex formulations with particle sizes of about 300 to
500 nm are obtained in a robust and reproducible manner; see Figure 28.
Materials and components which may be used are as follows:
Components:
     *  RNA: 0.5 mg/ml in 10 mM HEPES and 0.1 mM EDTA
     *  Diluent: 0.9%NaCl
     *  Liposomes: 2.68 mM DOTMA, 1.34 mM DOPE, particle size (Zave) 300-500 nm
Syringes:
     *  5 mL syringes: (e.g. Omnifix, 5 mL, Luer Lock, B. Braun Melsungen AG (Melsungen,
        Germany)
     *  1 mL syringe: Injekt-F Tuberculin, 1 mL, Luer Lock, B. Braun Melsungen AG
        (Melsungen, Germany)
Needles:
     *  0.9 x 44 mm, 20 G 1 %'',BD Microlance 3, Becton Dickinson S.A. (Fraga, Spain)
The sizes of the RNA lipoplex particles produced according to the above procedure range
from 300 nm to 500; see Figure 29.
Example 13: Effect of particle size
It is demonstrated, that the activity of the lipoplexes increases with increasing size. The size
of the liposomes used for formation of lipoplexes affects also the size of the lipoplexes.
Larger liposomes lead also to larger lipoplexes.
The particle characteristics of RNA lipoplexes reconstituted using F4 (DOTMA/DOPE 50:50
mol/mol) and F12 (DOTMA/DOPE 66.7:33.3 mol/mol) were investigated realizing different

                                                77
sizes of precursor. For that, particle sizing of lipoplexes with extruded liposomes and
non-extruded, 0.45 pm filtered liposomes was performed.
Formulation                       Size extruded                   Size not extruded
F4                                 164 nm                         582 nm
F12                                163 nm                         637 nm
Table 1: Sizes of liposomes used for lipoplex formation
Results for the lipoplexes are shown in Figure 30. It is demonstrated that lipoplexes of
different sizes can be produced by using precursors of different sizes.
The results from Figures 31 and 32 indicate that the bigger the liposomes the bigger the
formed lipoplexes in these experiment the higher the observed luciferase signal.
Example 14: Sodium chloride buffer
Several experiments have shown that addition of PBS buffer to the RNA prior to addition of
liposomes, leads to an increase of the activity of the lipoplexes. Here it is demonstrated, that
instead of PBS, normal saline solution (0.9% eg. 150 mM NaCI) can be used for RNA
condensation. Such NaCl solution is available as approved medicinal drug product, which
facilitates logistics and handling for the lipoplex-IMP. It is further demonstrated, that also
concentrated solutions of NaCl and PBS can be used for RNA condensing, resulting in
equivalent activity of the later formed lipoplexes. Furthermore detailed size measurements are
shown, where differently concentrated NaCl solutions were added to RNA prior to lipoplex
formation. In general, lipoplex size increases with decreasing concentration of the added NaCl
solution; see Figure 35. As increasing size is correlated to increasing activity (see Example
13), addition of the normal saline, and not the concentrated saline is considered to yield higher
activity.
To test the influence of pre-formulation of RNA using common buffers prior to the
assembling, the particle size of lipoplexes at a charge ratio 1:2 were determined after
treatment of the RNA with different concentrated PBS buffers or sodium chloride solutions;
see Figures 33 and 34.

                                                 78
The prior mixing protocol, where both liposomes and RNA are treated in PBS (1x PBS final
conc.) and then mixed at equal volumes, can be replaced by a simpler mixing with normal
sodium chloride solution (0.9%), which is commercially available as an approved medicinal
drug product. As mixing protocol for the lipoplex-IMP, RNA is preformulated with isotonic
saline solution and then mixed with the liposomes in water.
The results suggest that the monovalent ion can be added at different concentrations in order
to obtain the same final ionic strength in the lypoplex formulation without significantly
affecting the lipoplex properties.
Example 15: Liposome/ RNA charge ratio
The charge ratio (ratio cationic lipid to nucleotide) of 1.3 to 2 is suitable regarding the
physicochemical characteristics and the biological activity. At this ratio, a higher fraction of
RNA is assumed to be included in the lipoplexes as for the ratio 1:2.
The colloidal stability, the particle characteristics and the Luciferase activity of lipoplexes of
non-extruded liposomes were further investigated. Lipoplexes were assembled in isotonic
saline solution with liposome/RNA charge ratios between 1:2 and 1.9:2, see Figures 36 and
37. For lipoplexes, at a charge ratio of 1.7:2 the particle sizes significantly increased over
time. In accordance with lipoplexes of extruded liposomes, lipoplexes with a charge ratio
between 1:2 and 1.6:2 are invariant to minor changes in excess RNA and show particle sizes
in the 350 to 480 nm range with PI values of less than 0.3.
As demonstrated in Figure 38, liposome/RNA charge ratios between 1.1:2 and 1.6:2 result in
good activity in the spleen.
All ratios deliver RNA exclusively to spleen without significant changes in performance
between the different lipid/RNA ratio.

                                            79
                                          Claims
1. A pharmaceutical composition comprising nanoparticles which comprise RNA
   encoding at least one antigen, wherein:
   (i)     the number of positive charges in the nanoparticles does not exceed the number
   of negative charges in the nanoparticles and/or
   (ii)    the nanoparticles have a neutral or net negative charge and/or
   (iii)   the charge ratio of positive charges to negative charges in the nanoparticles is
   1.4:1 or less and/or
   (iv)    the zeta potential of the nanoparticles is 0 or less.
2. The pharmaceutical composition of claim I wherein the charge ratio of positive
   charges to negative charges in the nanoparticles is between 1.4:1 and 1:8, preferably
   between 1.2:1 and 1:4.
3. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 1 or 2 wherein the nanoparticles comprise at
   least one lipid.
4. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims I to 3 wherein the nanoparticles
   comprise at least one cationic lipid.
5. The pharmaceutical      composition of claim 4 wherein the positive charges are
   contributed by the at least one cationic lipid and the negative charges are contributed
   by the RNA.
6. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 3 to 5 wherein the nanoparticles
   comprises at least one helper lipid.
7. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 6 wherein the helper lipid is a neutral lipid.
8. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 4 to 7 wherein the at least one
   cationic    lipid  comprises      1,2-di-O-octadecenyl-3-trimethylammonium     propane
   (DOTMA) and/or 1,2-dioleoyl-3-trimethylammonium-propane (DOTAP).

                                            80
9.  The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 6 to 8 wherein the at least one
    helper lipid comprises 1,2-di-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine
    (DOPE),      cholesterol   (Chol)    and/or    1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine
    (DOPC).
10. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 6 to 9 wherein the molar ratio of
    the at least one cationic lipid to the at least one helper lipid is from 10:0 to 3:7,
    preferably 9:1 to 3:7, 4:1 to 1:2, 4:1 to 2:3, 7:3 to 1:1, or 2:1 to 1:1, preferably about
    1:1.
11. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 3 to 10, wherein the lipid forms
    a complex with and/or encapsulates said RNA.
12. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 3 to 11, wherein the lipid is
    comprised in a vesicle encapsulating said RNA.
13. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims I to 12, wherein the
    nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and DOPE in a molar ratio of 10:0
    to 1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and wherein the charge
    ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RINA is 1.8:2 to 0.8:2,
    more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even more
    preferably about 1.2:2.
14. The pharmaceutical       composition of any one of claims I to 12, wherein the
    nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTMA and Cholesterol in a molar ratio of
    10:0 to 1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and wherein the
    charge ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.8:2 to
    0.8:2, more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even more
    preferably about 1.2:2.
15. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the
    nanoparticles are lipoplexes comprising DOTAP and DOPE in a molar ratio of 10:0 to
    1:9, preferably 8:2 to 3:7, and more preferably of 7:3 to 5:5 and wherein the charge
    ratio of positive charges in DOTMA to negative charges in the RNA is 1.8:2 to 0.8:2,

                                            81
    more preferably 1.6:2 to 1:2, even more preferably 1.4:2 to 1.1:2 and even more
    preferably about 1.2:2.
16. The pharmaceutical      composition of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the
    nanoparticles have an average diameter in the range of from about 50 nm to about
    1000 nm, preferably from about 100 nm to about 800 nm, preferably about 200 nm to
    about 600 nm such as about 300 nm to about 500 nm.
17. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the
    nanoparticles are obtainable by one or more of the following: (i) incubation of
    liposomes in an aqueous phase with the RNA in an aqueous phase, (ii) incubation of
    the lipid dissolved in an organic, water miscible solvent, such as ethanol, with the
    RNA in aqueous solution, (iii) reverse phase evaporation technique, (iv) freezing and
    thawing of the product, (v) dehydration and rehydration of the product, (vi)
    lyophilization and rehydration of the of the product, or (vii) spray drying and
    rehydration of the product.
18. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the
    nanoparticles are produced by a process comprising a step of incubating the RNA with
    bivalent cations prior to incorporation into said nanoparticles and/or by incubating the
    RNA with monovalent ions prior to incorporation into said nanoparticles and/or by
    incubating the RNA with buffers prior to incorporation into said nanoparticles.
19. The pharmaceutical      composition of any one of claims I to 18, wherein the
    nanoparticles are produced by a process comprising a step of extruding and/or a step
    of lyophilizing the nanoparticles.
20. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein, after systemic
    administration of the nanoparticles, RNA expression in the spleen occurs.
21. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein, after systemic
    administration of the nanoparticles, no or essentially no RNA expression in the lung
    and/or liver occurs.

                                            82
22. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein, after systemic
    administration of the nanoparticles, RNA expression in the spleen is at least 5-fold the
    amount of RNA expression in the lung.
23. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein, after systemic
    administration of the nanoparticles, RNA expression in antigen presenting cells,
    preferably professional antigen presenting cells in the spleen occurs.
24. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 23, wherein the antigen presenting cells are
    dendritic cells and/or macrophages.
25. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 20 to 24, wherein systemic
    administration    is   by   parenteral   administration,    preferably   by   intravenous
    administration,    subcutaneous     administration,    intradermal     administration  or
    intraarterial administration.
26. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims I to 25, wherein the antigen is a
    disease-associated antigen or elicts an immune response against a disease-associated
    antigen or cells expressing a disease-associated antigen.
27. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 26 further comprising one
    or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents and/or excipients.
28. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 27 further comprising at
    least one adjuvant.
29. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 28 which is formulated for
    systemic administration.
30. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 29 for inducing an immune
    response, preferably an immune response against cancer.

                                              83
31. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims I to 30 wherein the RNA does
    not comprise pseudouridine residues and preferably does not comprise modified
    nucleosides.
32. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to 31 for use in a prophylactic
    and/or therapeutic treatment of a disease involving an antigen, preferably a cancer
    disease.
33. A method for delivering an antigen to antigen presenting cells, preferably professional
    antigen presenting cells in the spleen or expressing an antigen in antigen presenting
    cells, preferably professional antigen presenting cells in the spleen comprising
    administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims I to 32.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the antigen presenting cells are dendritic cells and/or
    macrophages.
35. A method for inducing an immune response, preferably an immune response against
    cancer, in a subject comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical
    composition of any one of claims 1 to 32.
36. A method for stimulating, priming and/or expanding T cells in a subject comprising
    administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1 to
    32.
37. A method of treating or preventing a disease involving an antigen, preferably a cancer
    disease, in a subject comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical
    composition of any one of claims I to 32.
38. Particles as set forth in any one of the foregoing claims.
39. A method for producing RNA-containing nanoparticles comprising the steps of:
    (a) providing RNA formulated in sodium chloride solution and
    (b) adding liposomes to the RNA.

                                             84
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the sodium chloride solution is an aqueous solution.
41. The method of claim 39 or 40, wherein the solvent is water.
42. The method of any one of claims 39 to 41, wherein the sodium chloride solution
    contains about 50 to about 300 mM, preferably about 100 to about 200 mM,
    preferably about 150 mM sodium chloride.
43. The method of any one of claims 39 to 42, wherein the sodium chloride solution is an
    isotonic sodium chloride solution.
44. The method of any one of claims 39 to 43, wherein the liposomes are formulated in
    water.
45. The method of any one of claims 39 to 44, wherein the liposomes are added to the
    RNA by injection of the liposomes into the RNA formulation.
46. The method of any one of claims 39 to 45, wherein the nanoparticles are nanoparticles
    as set forth in any of the foregoing claims.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
