                                                      13
  Abstract
  The present invention relates to a device (1) for predetermining the driving stage of an electric
  motor of a boat, comprising a base plate (2) which can be connected to a side wall (8) of the boat
  and a control lever (4) which is pivotable relative to the base plate (2) about a pivot axis (44), and
5 which is coupled to a speed controller for control of the motor, wherein the control lever (4) forms a
  substantially closed contour with a plane formed by the base plate (2).

                       1
           40
   4                 70
                        7
                    42
2    2        -~ -.       44
 3
       Fig. 1

                                                       1
               Device for predetermining the driving stage of an electric motor of a boat
 5 Technical field
   The present invention relates to a device for predetermining the speed level of a motor of a boat,
   preferably a remote throttle for predetermining the driving stage of an electric motor installed in
   sailing boat.
   Technical Background
 o It is known to drive boats using an electric motor. Furthermore, it is known to control the speed level
   of the electric motor by means of a device for predetermining the speed level, wherein the
   predetermination of the speed level takes place for example by the predetermination of the power or
   the rotational speed of the electric motor. For predetermination of the speed level by the operator,
   for example by the helmsman, in principle two different possibilities are known:
 5 In a boat drive constructed as an outboard motor with an electric motor it is known to predetermine
   the driving stage of the electric motor by means of a rotary grip provided at the end of a tiller
   mounted directly on the outboard motor. The operator of the outboard motor can then not only
   predetermine the travel direction but can also control the driving stage of the motor in a known
   manner by means of the tiller.
20 Furthermore, it is known to provide a remote throttle device, in which a control lever is provided,
   which is spaced apart from boat drive to be controlled and by means of which the driving stage of
   the electric motor can then be controlled. The remote throttle is usually arranged on a control panel
   of the boat, so that it can be operated simply by a driver, whilst the driver also operates the steering
   wheel. A remote throttle device is used in particular when the motor is installed inaccessibly in the
25 boat - for example when it is provided as a built-in motor with a shaft drive, as a built-in motor with a
   Z drive, as a saildrive or as a pod drive. However, a remote throttle device can also be used for
   controlling an outboard motor.

                                                         2
   In sailing boats, such a remote throttle device is usually arranged either on a steering column of the
   steering wheel or on a wall - typically a side wall or a base region of the cockpit. An arrangement of
   the remote throttle device in the cockpit is also to be found in particular when the sailing boat has
   tiller steering and accordingly no steering column is provided.
 5 For control of a boat drive it is also possible to provide a plurality of remote throttle devices which
   are arranged in different positions on the boat - for example on two different control panels.
   In this case remote gas devices are known for predetermining the driving stage of an electric motor
   of a boat, and have a base plate which can be connected to a side wall of the boat on which a
   control lever is provided which is pivotable about a pivot axis with respect to the base plate. During
 o the pivoting movement about the pivot axis the control lever acts on a speed controller - for example
   in the form of a sensor - by means of which the power electronics unit of the electric motor can be
   controlled in order in this way to implement the driving stage required by the operator.
   In order to be able to predetermine the driving stage of the electric motor and thus to control the
   movement of the boat, the control lever can be operated by the respective operator. As a rule, the
 5 control lever has a shaft part and a gripping part which is spaced apart from the axis of rotation and
   by which the operator usually grips the control lever by his hand. In this case the gripping part is at
   a sufficiently large distance from the side wall to enable the operator to completely enclose the
   gripping part with his hand so that a secure and firm grip is possible.
   Due to the known geometric construction of the control lever it can happen that rigging and, in
 o particular, sheets, mooring ropes, lashings or other ropes which are necessary for operating the
   boat, or also fishing lines, become entangled and/or that people moving about on the boat become
   caught on the control lever by items of clothing and/or limbs. Furthermore, even if the known control
   levers are arranged in a region close to the floor or near the knees the danger of injury for the
   people moving about on the boat increases.
25 Summary of the invention
   Starting from the known prior art, it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved
   drive device for predetermining the driving stage of a motor of a boat.
   This object is achieved by a device for predetermining the driving stage of a motor of a boat with the
   features of claim 1. Advantageous further embodiments are apparent from the subordinate claims,
30 the present description and the drawings.

                                                         3
   Accordingly, a device for predetermining the driving stage of a motor of a boat, preferably of a
   sailing boat, is proposed, comprising a base plate which can be connected to a side wall of the boat
   and a control lever which is arranged on the base plate and is pivotable about a pivot axis, and
   which is coupled to a speed controller for control of the motor. According to the invention the control
 5 lever forms a substantially closed contour with a plane formed by the base plate.
   A substantially closed contour is understood here to mean, inter alia, that between the control lever
   and the plane defined by the base plate no gap occurs which is so large that rigging, clothing or
   limbs can be caught between the plane defined by the base plate and the control lever. In other
   words, the control lever and the plane defined by the base plate form an external contour which is
 o substantially closed off with respect to the outer region.
   Because the control lever forms a substantially closed contour with a plane formed by the base
   plate, it is possible to prevent rigging and, in particular, sheets, mooring ropes, lashings or other
   ropes which are necessary for operating the boat, or fishing lines, from becoming entangled on the
   control lever or to prevent the people moving about on the boat from becoming caught on the
 5 control lever by items of clothing or limbs. Furthermore, as a result the device has a particularly
   compact construction, so that it can also be arranged in the reduced available space in a cockpit of
   a smaller sailing boat or of a fishing boat or generally in smaller boats, without the operation of the
   boat being negatively influenced.
   In this case it should be noted that, due to the substantially closed contour of the control lever with
 o the plane formed by the base plate, it is no longer possible for a part of the control lever and in
   particular a handle region of the control lever to be completely enclosed by the operator's hand. At
   least in the part of the control lever facing the base plate it is no longer possible for the operator's
   hand to enclose it. In other words, the haptics and the handling of the operation of the proposed
   control lever differ significantly from the haptics and handling of conventional control levers, which
25 may be perceived as unusual by the operator. However, the disadvantages which may be perceived
   due to the improved safety of the proposed device are more than offset. This is then the case when
   - as in a sailing boat or a fishing boat - the motor is only used rarely and remains switched off for
   most of the time. Here the advantageous effects are particularly pronounced with respect to
   preventing sheets and other rigging from becoming caught or entangled whilst sailing or preventing
30 fishing lines from becoming entangled.
   The device is preferably constructed in such a way that it can be arranged on a side wall of the
   boat.

                                                        4
   The control lever can be moved and positioned in a region which is delimited by the zero position
   and a maximum position in which the electric drive is operated in its maximum driving stage.
   The control lever is preferably coupled to a speed controller for control of the power electronics unit
   of an electric motor if the motor of the boat is constructed in the form of an electric motor.
 5 The control lever is preferably coupled to a speed controller for control of an electronic or
   mechanical carburetor regulation or injection regulation if the motor of the boat is constructed in the
   form of an internal combustion engine.
   The driving stage can be implemented by specifying the rotational speed predetermined by means
   of the control lever so that, when the predetermined maximum rotational speed is reached in the
 o maximum driving stage, the rated power of the motor, for example the electric motor, is also
   obtained. On the other hand, if due to a less than optimal design of the drive system - for example
   due to a propeller having a pitch which is too large - a maximum torque of the electric motor
   predetermined by the system is reached before the maximum rotational speed predetermined by
   means of the control lever is reached, the rated power is not reached in the maximum driving
 5 position predetermined by the control lever. In such a case the driving stage is then predetermined
   by the maximum torque predetermined by the system. A maximum torque of the electric motor is
   usually predetermined in the system, in order to prevent a thermal overloading of the motor and
   thus damage to the motor.
   The driving stage can also be implemented by predetermining the power or predetermining the
 o torque predetermined by means of the control lever.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the control lever extends substantially in the region of the base
   plate with respect to the pivot axis when viewed radially. In the case of a device in such a
   configuration, independently of the installation position of the device on the boat it is ensured that
   no parts of the control lever project significantly beyond the base plate. As a result, no loose parts,
25 such as clothing, ropes, sheets or cords can remain caught on the control lever or on parts thereof
   or become entangled thereby.
   If the control lever and the base plate according to a further preferred embodiment only form a small
   axial gap with respect to the pivot axis, entanglement of ropes or sheets can be prevented
   particularly reliably. The gap is preferably kept smaller than the diameter of the thinnest rigging
30 used on board the boat, and preferably has a gap width of 0.1 mm to 5 mm, preferably 1 mm to 2
   mm.

                                                         5
   In other words, an area of the drive lever, for example a handle part, in each position of the drive
   lever directly abuts against the base plate such that only a marginal gap is formed.
   In a preferred further embodiment, the gap is completely closed by a bridging element. In this case
   the bridging element can be, for example, a low friction element which is made, for example, from a
 5 Teflon material, and is pre-tensioned in the gap closing direction. The bridging element can also be
   an elastomeric element. Complete closing of the gap is particularly advantageous in the case of
   fishing boats.
   The gap is preferably formed between the base plate and the control lever and is substantially
   constant over the entire pivoting range of the control lever. Thus, it can be ensured that the
 o substantially closed contour is achieved not only in the neutral position or the zero position of the
   device but also in all other pivoted positions of the control lever. Thus, even when the electric motor
   is running it is possible to prevent rigging from catching and even during time-critical maneuvering,
   for example in the harbor, catching and entangling of rigging can be avoided, so that the safety of
   the boat can be further increased.
 5 In order to further reduce the danger of rigging becoming entangled on the device, but at the same
   time to improve the haptics, in a further preferred embodiment the control lever and the outer
   surface of the base part also form a radial gap. The gap preferably has a size of 1 mm to 50 mm,
   preferably 5 mm to 20 mm. Thus, on the one hand, safe operation of the control lever is made
   possible and at the same time the possibility of the aforementioned entangling is reduced.
 o In a further advantageous embodiment, a base part is arranged non-rotatably on the base plate,
   wherein the control lever is arranged on the base part and is pivotable relative to the base part
   about the pivot axis. The base part is particularly preferably constructed so as to be substantially
   cylindrical, in order to further reduce catching of rigging due to the absence of undercuts.
   In a particularly preferred embodiment the control lever has in the region of the base part a cover
25 element which is at least partially conically shaped, and which forms a closed contour together with
   the base part and the control lever. The risk of catching of the rigging as well as the risk of injury are
   further reduced by the provision of the conical cover.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the control lever has a locking device for locking the control lever
   in a specific position, preferably in a zero position or neutral position, in which the motor is not
30 supplied with power. In this way it is ensured that the control lever is not moved inadvertently out of
   the zero position and the motor does not cause corresponding involuntarily acceleration of the boat

                                                           6
   or run unnoticed, resulting in the state of charge of a battery supplying the electric motor decreasing
   unnoticed and/or involuntarily or fuel being consumed unnoticed.
   In order to provide a particularly compact construction of the device and at the same time to achieve
   great ease of operation for the operator, in a further preferred embodiment an actuating button for
 5 unlocking the locking device is arranged on a side of the control lever facing away from the base
   plate and the actuating button can be actuated particularly preferably in the direction of the pivot
   axis.
   In a further preferred embodiment, a trim-tilt switch is arranged on the control lever for setting the
   position of the motor relative to a horizontal pivot axis of the motor. As a result, the position of the
 o drive can be adjusted according to the situation of the boat in the water, so that a propeller or the
   axis of rotation thereof is positioned substantially horizontally in the water. The thrust generated by
   the drive unit of the motor then contributes substantially completely to the acceleration of the boat in
   direction of travel. Furthermore, due to the trim-tilt switch the motor can be lifted out of the water,
   preferably while the boat is not in use or is at a standstill, in order either to reduce resistance when
 5 sailing or to avoid the growth of vegetation when the boat is at a standstill.
   In order to achieve a particularly simple and robust construction of the device and to provide ease of
   operation, the trim-tilt switch can be constructed in the form of a membrane keypad. Moreover, the
   construction of the device is then particularly compact, since the membrane keypad is only small,
   preferably 0.5 mm to 5 mm, preferably 1 mm to 2 mm in relation to a base surface on which the
 o trim-tilt switch is arranged.
   Alternatively, the trim-tilt switch can also be constructed in the form of a rocker switch.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the control lever is provided in a movement regulation unit
   together with a graphical display unit for graphical presentation of information. As a result, a
   compact construction can be provided. Thus, it is possible to omit any additional units which would
25 otherwise be necessary in the boat for presentation of information. By means of the graphical
   display unit it is possible to display, in particular, the speed of the boat, the state of charge of the
   battery as well as the expected range of the boat, the motor power obtained, and/or error messages
   from the power electronics unit. The graphical display unit can be, for example, housed in the region
   of the base plate or of the base part.

                                                        7
   Brief description of the drawings
   Preferred further embodiments of the invention are explained in greater detail by the following
   description of the drawings. In the drawings:
   Figure 1          shows schematically a perspective side view of a device for predetermining the
 5                   power of an electric motor of a boat; and
   Figure 2          shows schematically a side view of the device according to Figure 1 in an installed
                     state on a side wall of a boat.
   Detailed description of preferred exemplary embodiments
   Preferred exemplary embodiments are described below with reference to the drawings. In this case
 o elements which are the same, similar, or act in the same way are provided with identical reference
   numerals in the different drawings, and repeated description of some of these elements is omitted in
   order to avoid redundancies.
   Figure 1 shows schematically a perspective side view of a device 1 for predetermining the driving
   stage of an electric motor of a boat. The device 1 has a base plate 2 which can be connected to a
 5 side wall of the boat. A substantially cylindrical base part 3 is provided on the base plate 2. A control
   lever 4 which is pivotable about a pivot axis 44 relative to the base part 3 is arranged on the side of
   the base part 3 facing away from the base plate 2. The control lever 4 extends radially beyond the
   base part 3 with respect to the axis of rotation 44 and forms a gripping part 40 on which an operator
   can grip the control lever 4. The control lever 4 and a plane formed by the base plate 2 form a
20 substantially closed contour, so that rigging, clothing, limbs or the like cannot catch or become
   entangled behind the control lever 4.
   In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the control lever 4 hardly extends beyond the base plate 2
   with respect to the pivot axis 44 when viewed radially. Thus, the substantially closed contour is
   formed by the base plate 2, the base part 3 and the control lever 4.
25 In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the base plate 2 is circular, but can also have a different
   shape. Due to the circular form of the base plate the geometric relationships between the control
   lever 4 and the base plate 2 are not changed over the entire pivoting range of the control lever 4.
   Furthermore, a locking device 7 is provided on the control lever 4 for locking the control lever 4 in its
   zero position. In order to release the locking device, the control lever 4 has on its side facing away
30 from the base plate 2 an actuating button 70 for unlocking the locking device 7.

                                                         8
   The device 1 can be connected by means of a connection 9 to a power electronics unit of the
   electric motor for which the speed level is to be predetermined by means of the device 1. This
   speed level is predetermined by means of a speed controller, which is connected to the control
   lever 4, by pivoting of the control lever 4 into a corresponding travel position. The speed controller
 5 may be designed, for example, in the form of a potentiometer, a Hall Effect sensor or another
   sensor, by means of which a desired journey of the operator can be determined from the position of
   the control lever 4 relative to base plate 2.
   The driving stage can be implemented by specifying the rotational speed predetermined by means
   of the control lever so that, when the predetermined maximum rotational speed is reached in the
 o maximum driving stage, the rated power of the electric motor is also obtained. The driving stage can
   also be implemented by specifying the power or specifying the torque predetermined by means of
   the control lever.
   The speed controller is preferably arranged in the base part 3, so that a configuration can be
   achieved which saves as much installation space as possible.
 5 Furthermore, the control lever 4 has a conically shaped cover element 410 which forms a
   connection between the control lever 4 and the cylindrical base part 3 and which enables secure
   and safe covering and connection of the control lever 4 to the base part 3.
   Figure 2 shows schematically a side view of the device 1 according to Figure 1 in an installed state
   on a side wall 8 of a boat. In this case the device 1 is rigidly fastened with its base plate 2 to the
 o side wall 8 and in the interior of the boat the connector 9 is connected to the power electronics unit
   of the electric motor to be controlled.
   The control lever 4 and the base plate 2 form an axial gap 5 with respect to the pivot axis 44.
   Therefore, the gripping part 40 or a front face 400 of the control lever 4 lies directly opposite the
   base plate 2 with a small spacing.
25 Furthermore, the control lever 4 and the outer surface of the base part 3 form a radial gap 6 with
   respect to the pivot axis 44. In this case the radial gap 6 extends substantially between the gripping
   part 40 and the base part 3. Accordingly, a shaft part 42 of the control lever 4 is particularly short.
   Therefore, the device 1 shown in Figures 1 and 2 is of particularly compact construction and
   accordingly is particularly suitable for use in boats in which only a small amount of pace is available
30 for the device 1, or in an arrangement of the device 1 in the region of the boat close to the base
   region of the boat, as is the case in particular with sailing boats or fishing boats.

                                                       9
  In the illustrated exemplary embodiments in Figures 1 and 2 reference has been made to the
  control of an electric motor. However, the control by means of the device 1 can likewise be provided
  for an internal combustion engine, wherein the pivotable control lever 4 is then coupled, for example
  to a speed controller for controlling an electronic or mechanical carburetor regulation or injection
5 regulation.
  If applicable, all individual features which are set out in the exemplary embodiments can be
  combined with one another and/or exchanged for one another, without departing from the scope of
  the invention.

                             10
  List of reference numerals
  1         device
  2         base plate
  3         base part
5 4         control lever
  40        handle region
  42        shaft part
  44        pivot axis
  400       end face
o 410       cover element
  5         axial gap
  6         radial gap
  7         locking device
  70        actuating button
5 8         side wall
  9         connector

                                                 11
   Claims
       1  Device (1) for predetermining the driving stage of a motor of a boat, comprising a base
          plate (2) which can be connected to a side wall (8) of the boat and a control lever (4)
          which is pivotable relative to the base plate (2) about a pivot axis (44), and which is
 5        coupled to a speed controller for control of the motor,
          characterized in that
          the control lever (4) forms a substantially closed contour with a plane formed by the
 o        base plate (2).
       2. Device (1) according to claim 1, characterized in that the control lever (4) extends
          substantially in the region of the base plate (2) with respect to the pivot axis (44) when
          viewed radially.
       3. Device (1) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the control
 5        lever (4) and the base plate (2) form an axial gap (5) with respect to the pivot axis (44).
       4. Device (1) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a base part
          (3) is provided which is fastened on the base plate (2) and the control lever (4) is
          arranged on the base part (3) so as to be pivotable about the pivot axis (44) relative to
          the base part (3).
_o     5. Device (1) according to claim 4, characterized in that the control lever (4) and the
          outer surface of the base part (3) form a radial gap (6).
       6. Device (1) according to claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the control lever (4) has a
          conically shaped cover element (410).
       7. Device (1) according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the control
25        lever (4) has a locking device (7) for locking the control lever (4) in a predetermined
          position, preferably in a zero position in which the motor stands still.
       8. Device (1) according to claim 7, characterized in that an actuating button (70) for
          unlocking the locking device (7) is arranged on a side of the control lever (4) facing
          away from the base plate (2).

                                              12
  9.  Device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a trim-tilt switch
      for setting the position of the motor relative to a horizontal pivot axis of the motor is
      preferably provided on the control lever (4) particularly preferably in the form of a
      membrane keypad.
5 10. Device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the control
      lever (4) is provided in a movement control unit together with a graphical display unit for
      graphical presentation of information.
  11. Device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pivotable
      control lever (4) is coupled to a speed controller for control of the power electronics unit
o     of an electric motor.
  12. Device according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the pivotable
      control lever (4) is coupled to a speed controller for control of an electronic or
      mechanical carburetor regulation or injection regulation of an internal combustion
      engine.
5

    TOR17551DE
<removed-date>
                                           1
<removed-apn>
                                40
                         4             70
                                           7
                                      42
                 2
                                               44
                 3
                     9
                             Fig. 1

    TOR17551DE
<removed-date>
                 8    5       40                         1
                                   4
                                           6
<removed-apn>
                                               42
                                                    44
                                       3
                          2
                     Fig. 2

