                                          ABSTRACT
         An ultrasound device, comprising:
         at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements;
         a first transmit control circuit comprising:
         a first pulser coupled to the first ultrasonic transducer element so as to drive the
first ultrasonic transducer element so that the first ultrasonic transducer element emits
an ultrasonic pulse;
         a first waveform generator coupled to the first pulser to provide a first waveform
to the first pulser in response to receipt, by the first transmit control circuit, of a
transmit enable signal generated by a timing and control circuit; and
         at least one first component that impacts a length of a first delay between when
the first transmit control circuit receives the transmit enable signal and when the first
waveform is applied to the first pulser;
         a second transmit control circuit comprising:
         a second pulser coupled to the second ultrasonic transducer element so as to
drive the second ultrasonic transducer element so that the second ultrasonic transducer
element emits an ultrasonic pulse;
         a second waveform generator coupled to the second pulser to provide a second
waveform to the second pulser in response to receipt, by the second transmit control
circuit, of the transmit enable signal generated by the timing and control circuit; and
         at least one second component that impacts a length of a second delay between
when the second transmit control circuit receives the transmit enable signal and when
the second waveform is applied to the second pulser;
         wherein the at least one first component is configured differently than the at least
one second component, so that the length of the second delay is different than the
length of the first delay, and wherein the first and second ultrasonic transducer
elements, the first transmit control circuit, and the second transmit control circuit are
formed on a single solid state semiconductor die.

2/45
            C
            U
         O6
     c-o

  MONOLITHIC ULTRASONIC IMAGING DEVICES, SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]      This Application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) of U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/798,851, filed on March 15, 2013 under
Attorney Docket No. B I 348.70006US00 and entitled "MONOLITHIC ULTRASONIC
IMAGING DEVICES, SYSTEMS AND METHODS", which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
                                              FIELD
     [0002]      Aspects of the present disclosure relate to devices, systems, and methods for
imaging and/or or treatment (e.g., ultrasonic imaging and/or treatment technology). For
example, certain aspects of the architecture and techniques disclosed herein allow an entire
ultrasonic imaging system to be integrated on a single semiconductor substrate. Accordingly,
many of the features and methodologies described herein relate to a single-chip ultrasonic
imaging solution, or to devices and systems wherein at least a substantial portion of the
ultrasonic imaging system is provided on a single chip.
                                         BACKGROUND
     [0003]      Conventional ultrasound scanners have hardware configurations such as linear
scanning with beamforming for transmit and receive operations that limit the types of
imaging algorithms that can be used for image processing.
     [0004]      Furthermore, the cost and scalability of ultrasonic scanners has been
approaching the limitations of the piezoelectric transducer technology currently dominating
the industry. Piezoelectric transducers are still made using "dice and fill" manufacturing
processes in which individual piezoelectric elements are cut and then positioned individually
on a substrate to form the transducer. Such processes are prone to the cost, non-uniformity,
and non-scalability of machining and wiring.
     [0005]      The problem of transporting multiple channels of analog signals from a
piezoelectric transducer array to the electronics in an ultrasound scanner has greatly limited
the utility of the larger and denser arrays of transducers needed to push the resolution of
ultrasound imaging forward and to enable high-quality 3D volumetric imaging.
                                                  1

     [0006]     Recent advances in the fabrication techniques of capacitive micromachined
ultrasound transducers (CMUTs) allow high quality ultrasound transducers to be fabricated in
the same semiconductor foundries that are currently driving the electronics industry. CMUT
devices also have superior bandwidth and acoustic impedance matching capabilities when
compared to piezoelectric transducers. Also, the increased flexibility available to design
CMUT arrays enables advanced array design techniques that can suppress imaging artifacts,
improve signal quality, and reduce channel counts. The ultrasonic imaging solutions using
CMUT arrays that have heretofore been proposed, however, employ conventional
architectures and signal processing paradigms, and thus suffer severe limitations and
drawbacks.
                                         SUMMARY
     [0007]     The present disclosure details various aspects of a new paradigm for the
design of a micromachined ultrasonic transducer-based ultrasonic imager. In some
embodiments, on-chip signal processing may be employed in the receive signal path, for
example, to reduce data bandwidth and/or a high-speed serial data module may be used to
move data for all received channels off-chip as digital data stream. The digitization of
received signals on-chip according to some embodiments of the present disclosure allows
advanced digital signal processing to be performed on-chip, and thus permits complete or
substantially complete integration of an entire ultrasonic imaging system on a single
semiconductor substrate. In some embodiments, a complete "ultrasound system on a chip"
solution is provided.
     [0008]     In some embodiments, the devices and architectures disclosed herein may be
fully integrated with one or more sophisticated methods, such as, for example, one or more
synthetic aperture techniques. Synthetic aperture techniques may, for example, allow the
formation of high-resolution imagery from multiple receive aperture collections.
     [0009]     According to an aspect of the technology, a method for processing a signal
from an ultrasonic transducer element is provided, comprising an act of, with a component
integrated on the same semiconductor die as the ultrasonic transducer element, converting an
analog signal corresponding to an output of the ultrasonic transducer element into a digital
signal. In some such embodiments, then, a digital representation of the output signal of the
ultrasonic transducer is generated on the semiconductor die, facilitating further processing of
the signal on the semiconductor die and/or transmission of the digital signal off the
                                                2

semiconductor die. In this manner, in some embodiments an ultrasound device includes
integrated transducers and circuitry on a single semiconductor die, which may be configured
to communicate digitally with other components.
     [0010]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, transmitting data
corresponding to the digital signal out of the semiconductor die as a high-speed serial data
stream. In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least one
additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, processing the digital signal to
reduce the data bandwidth thereof. In at least some embodiments, such reduction in
bandwidth facilitates transmission of the digital data of the semiconductor die to other
components.
     [0011]     In some embodiments, the at least one additional component comprises a
digital quadrature demodulator. In some embodiments the at least one additional component
comprises an averaging module. In some embodiments, the at least one additional
component comprises a matched filter (e.g., matched to a particular frequency), and in
alternative embodiments a mismatched filter. In some embodiments, the at least one
additional component comprises a finite impulse response (FIR) filter. In some embodiments,
the at least one additional component comprises a /2 band decimating low-pass filter. In
some embodiments, the at least one additional component comprises a dechirp module, which
may be a ramp circuit (e.g., a digital ramp circuit) or a stretch circuit, and which may be
configured to convert time to frequency for a signal (e.g., LFM waveform).
     [0012]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, processing data
corresponding to the digital signal to perform one or more image formation functions. In
some such embodiments, such performance of image formation functions leads to or results
in formation of an ultrasound image, and thus in some embodiments an integrated ultrasound
imaging device is formed on the semiconductor die. In some embodiments, the one or more
image formation functions comprise at least one image formation function selected from the
group consisting of apodization, back projection, fast hierarchy back projection, interpolation
range migration or other Fourier resampling technique, dynamic focusing, delay and sum
processing, and tomographic reconstruction. In at least some embodiments, such functions
are used to provide beneficial image types, for example types of images which are medically
relevant.
                                                3

     [0013]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, processing data
corresponding to the digital signal to perform one or more back-end processing functions. In
some embodiments, the one or more back-end processing functions comprise at least one
back-end processing function selected from the group consisting of down-range autofocusing,
cross-range autofocusing, frequency dispersion compensation, non-linear apodization,
remapping, compression, denoising, compounding, Doppler, elastography, spectroscopy, and
basis pursuit.
     [0014]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of using at least
one microprocessor integrated on the semiconductor die to perform at least one digital signal
processing function. In some embodiments, the at least one microprocessor is used to reduce
the bandwidth of data corresponding to the digital signal. In some embodiments, the at least
one microprocessor is used to perform one or more image formation functions. In some
embodiments, the one or more image formation functions include at least one image
formation function selected from the group consisting of apodization, back projection, fast
hierarchy back projection, Stolt interpolation, dynamic focusing, delay and sum processing,
and tomographic imaging. In some embodiments, the at least one microprocessor is used to
perform one or more back-end processing functions. In some embodiments, the one or more
back-end processing functions include at least one back-end processing function selected
from the group consisting of down-range autofocusing, cross-range autofocusing, frequency
dispersion compensation, non-linear apodization, remapping, compression, denoising,
compounding., Doppler, elastography, spectroscopy, and basis pursuit. The inclusion of the
microprocessor integrated on the semiconductor die in some embodiments further facilitates
realization of an ultrasound device on a single semiconductor die. For example, an
ultrasound imaging device configured to collect ultrasound data suitable for use in forming
ultrasound images is realized in some embodiments.
     [0015]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, prior to converting the analog
signal into a digital signal, processing the analog signal to decouple waveforms therefrom.
Decoupling of waveforms may be used in connection with a signal representing multiple
waveforms and may involve separating out selected signal components (e.g., selected
frequencies) in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the at least one additional
component comprises an analog quadrature demodulator, and in some embodiments
                                                 4

comprises an analog dechirp module. In at least some embodiments, decoupling of
waveforms reduces an amount of data produced by the ultrasonic transducer element(s), and
thus facilitates data processing and transfer of the data to other components.
     [0016]      In some embodiments, the ultrasonic transducer element comprises one or
more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. That is, ultrasonic transducer cells may
individually or in combination form an ultrasonic transducer element. Ultrasonic transducer
elements may be formed from any suitable combination of ultrasonic transducer cells when
such cells are combined. In some embodiments the one or more micromachined ultrasonic
transducer cells comprise one or more capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer
(CMUT) cells. In some embodiments, the one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer
cells comprise one or more CMOS ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells. The use of such cells
facilitates integration of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer,
according to some embodiments.
     [0017]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least one ultrasonic transducer element integrated on a semiconductor die and
an analog-to-digital (ADC) converter, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to
convert an analog signal corresponding to an output of the ultrasonic transducer element into
a digital signal. In some embodiments, such a configuration facilitates realization of an
integrated ultrasound device in which ultrasonic transducers and circuitry are integrated on a
single semiconductor die. In some embodiments, such a device is compact in size due to the
integration of components on a single semiconductor die.
     [0018]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises a high-speed
serial data module, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to transmit data
corresponding to the digital signal out of the semiconductor die as a high-speed serial data
stream. In some such embodiments, use of a high-speed data module facilitates
communication with off-chip components, and thus enhances the functionality of the
ultrasound device. For instance, the ultrasound device in some embodiments couples to and
communicates with an external processing component, which is a computer, smartphone, or
tablet in some embodiments.
     [0019]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises at least one
signal processing module, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to process the
digital signal to reduce the data bandwidth thereof. In such embodiments, the reduction in
                                                  5

data bandwidth facilitates communication with components external to the ultrasound device,
which components may include an external processing component, which is a computer,
smartphone, or tablet in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the communication
involves transferring the data to the external component. In some embodiments, the at least
one signal processing module comprises a digital quadrature demodulator. In some
embodiments, the at least one signal processing module comprises an averaging module. In
some embodiments, the at least one signal processing module comprises a matched filter, and
in alternative embodiments a mismatched filter. In some embodiments, the at least one signal
processing module comprises a finite impulse response filter. In some embodiments the at
least one signal processing module comprises a    /2 band decimating low-pass filter. In some
embodiments, the at least one signal processing module comprises a dechirp module.
    [0020]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises at least one
signal processing module, integrated on the semiconductor die, and configured to process
data corresponding to the digital signal to perform one or more image formation functions. In
some embodiments the one or more image formation functions include at least one image
formation function selected from the group consisting of apodization, back projection, fast
hierarchy back projection, interpolation range migration or other Fourier resampling
technique, dynamic focusing, delay and sum processing, and tomographic reconstruction. In
some such embodiments, such performance of image formation functions leads to or results
in formation of an ultrasound image, and thus in some embodiments an integrated ultrasound
imaging device is formed on the semiconductor die. In at least some embodiments, such
functions are used to provide beneficial image types, for example types of images which are
medically relevant.
    [0021]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises at least one
signal processing module, integrated on the semiconductor die, and configured to process
data corresponding to the digital signal to perform one or more back-end processing
functions, which may be beneficial for the reasons previously described. In some
embodiments, the one or more back-end processing functions include at least one back-end
processing function selected from the group consisting of down-range autofocusing, cross
range autofocusing, frequency dispersion compensation, non-linear apodization, remapping,
compression, denoising, compounding, Doppler, elastography, spectroscopy, and basis
pursuit.
                                                6

     [0022]     In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises a
microprocessor, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to perform at least one
digital signal processing function. In some embodiments, the microprocessor is configured to
reduce the bandwidth of data corresponding to the digital signal, which is beneficial in some
embodiments to facilitate further processing of the data and communication of the data to
external component, such as computers, smartphones, and tablets. In some embodiments,
inclusion of the microprocessor on the semiconductor die further facilitates realization of an
integrated ultrasound device.
     [0023]     In some embodiments, the microprocessor is configured to perform one or
more image formation functions. In some embodiments, the one or more image formation
functions include at least one image formation function selected from the group consisting of
apodization, back projection, fast hierarchy back projection, interpolation range migration or
other Fourier resampling technique, dynamic focusing, delay and sum processing, and
tomographic imaging.
     [0024]     In some embodiments, the microprocessor is configured to perform one or
more back-end processing functions. In some embodiments, the one or more back-end
processing functions include at least one back-end processing function selected from the
group consisting of down-range autofocusing, cross-range autofocusing, frequency dispersion
compensation, non-linear apodization, remapping, compression, denoising, compounding,
Doppler, elastography, spectroscopy, and basis pursuit.
     [0025]     In some embodiments, the device further comprises at least one additional
component, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to process the analog signal to
decouple waveforms therefrom before the ADC converter converts the analog signal into a
digital signal. In some embodiments, the at least one additional component comprises an
analog quadrature demodulator, and in some embodiments comprises an analog dechirp
module. Inclusion of such processing circuitry in some embodiments further facilitates
formation of an integrated ultrasound device which may communicate digitally with external
components.
     [0026]     In some embodiments, the ultrasonic transducer element comprises one or
more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. In some embodiments, the one or more
micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one or more capacitive micromachined
ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) cells, and in some embodiments comprise one or more CMOS
                                               7

ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells. The use of such cells facilitates integration of the
ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer, according to some
embodiments.
     [0027]     According to an aspect of the technology, a method for processing a signal
from an ultrasonic transducer element is provided, comprising an act of, with at least one
component integrated on the same semiconductor die as the ultrasonic transducer element,
processing a signal corresponding to an output of the transducer element to decouple
waveforms therefrom. In some embodiments, such processing reduces an amount of data,
which in turn facilitates collection and transmission of ultrasound data.
     [0028]     In some embodiments, the at least one component comprises an analog
quadrature demodulator, and in some embodiments comprises an analog dechirp module. In
some embodiments, the ultrasonic transducer element comprises one or more micromachined
ultrasonic transducer cells. In some embodiments, the one or more micromachined ultrasonic
transducer cells comprise one or more capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer
(CMUT) cells, and in some embodiments comprise one or more CMOS ultrasonic transducer
(CUT) cells. The use of such cells facilitates integration of the ultrasonic transducers with
other components on a CMOS wafer, according to some embodiments.
     [0029]     According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least one ultrasonic transducer element integrated on a semiconductor die and
at least one component, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to process a signal
corresponding to an output of the at least one ultrasonic transducer element to decouple
waveforms therefrom. In some embodiments, such a configuration of components facilitates
realization of an integrated ultrasound device. The decoupling of waveforms reduces an
amount of data, which in turn facilitates collection and transmission of ultrasound data.
     [0030]     In some embodiments, the at least one component comprises an analog
quadrature demodulator, and in some embodiments the at least one component comprises an
analog dechirp module. In some embodiments, the at least one ultrasonic transducer element
comprises one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. In some embodiments, the
one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one or more capacitive
micromachined ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) cells, and in some embodiments comprise one
or more CMOS ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells. The use of such cells facilitates
                                                8

integration of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer, according
to some embodiments.
     [0031]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for configuring at least
two ultrasonic transducer elements is provided, each comprising a plurality of ultrasonic
transducer cells. The method comprises an act of coupling at least one ultrasonic transducer
cell in one of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements to at least one ultrasonic
transducer cell in another of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements. In some
embodiments, such coupling beneficially reduces grating lobes of ultrasound waveforms
generated by the ultrasonic transducer elements. Additionally, such coupling facilitates
beneficial use of the total transducer area in some embodiments.
     [0032]      In some embodiments, the act of coupling comprises coupling the at least one
ultrasonic transducer cell in the one of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements with the
at least one ultrasonic transducer cell in the other of the at least two ultrasonic transistor
elements via a resistive element. In some embodiments, the resistive element comprises a
polysilicon resistor. Use of such resistors, and suitable selection of the resistance values, in
some embodiments optimizes performance of the ultrasonic transducer elements.
     [0033]      In some embodiments, the act of coupling comprises coupling a first pair of
ultrasonic transducer cells in different ones of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements
with a first coupling element having a first impedance value, and coupling a second pair of
ultrasonic transducer cells in the different ones of the at least two ultrasonic transducer
elements with a second coupling element having a second impedance value, which is
different than the first impedance value. Suitable selection of the impedance values, in some
embodiments, optimizes performance of the ultrasonic transducer elements. In some
embodiments, the act of coupling comprises establishing an inductive coupling between the
at least one ultrasonic transducer cell in the one of the at least two ultrasonic transducer
elements and the at least one ultrasonic transducer cell in the other of the at least two
ultrasonic transducer elements.
     [0034]      In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of intermingling at
least some of the ultrasonic transducer cells of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements.
     [0035]      In some embodiments, each of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements
comprises one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. The use of such cells
                                                  9

facilitates integration of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer,
according to some embodiments.
     [0036]      In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of apodizing at
least some transducer cells in each of the at least two transducer elements. In some
embodiments the act of apodizing comprises apodizing the at least one transducer cell in the
one of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements and the at least one transducer cell in
the other of the at least two transducer elements.
     [0037]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least two ultrasonic transducer elements each comprising a plurality of
ultrasonic transducer cells. At least one ultrasonic transducer cell in one of the at least two
ultrasonic transducer elements is coupled to at least one ultrasonic transducer cell in another
of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements. In some embodiments, such coupling
beneficially reduces grating lobes of ultrasound waveforms generated by the ultrasonic
transducer elements. Additionally, such coupling facilitates beneficial use of the total
transducer area in some embodiments.
     [0038]      In some embodiments, the at least one transducer cell in the one of the at least
two transducer elements is coupled to the at least one transducer cell in the other of the at
least two transducer elements via a resistive element. In some embodiments, the resistive
element comprises a polysilicon resistor.
     [0039]      In some embodiments, one of the at least two transducer elements comprises
at least first and second transducer cells, and the other of the at least two transducer elements
comprises at least third and fourth transducer cells, the first and third transducer cells are
coupled via a first coupling element having a first impedance value, and the second and
fourth transducer cells are coupled via a second coupling element having a second impedance
value, which is different than the first impedance value. Suitable selection of the impedance
values, in some embodiments, optimizes performance of the ultrasonic transducer elements.
     [0040]      In some embodiments, the at least two transducer elements are configured and
arranged such that an inductive coupling is established between the at least one transducer
cell in the one of the at least two transducer elements and the at least one transducer cell in
the other of the at least two transducer elements.
                                                 10

     [0041]      In some embodiments, at least some of the transducer cells of the at least two
transducer elements are intermingled, which in some embodiments provides benefits in terms
of beneficial use of the transducer element area.
     [0042]      In some embodiments, each of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements
comprises one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. The use of such cells
facilitates integration of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer,
according to some embodiments.
     [0043]      In some embodiments, at least one transducer cell in each of the at least two
transducer elements is apodized. In some embodiments, the at least one transducer cell in the
one of the at least two ultrasonic transducer elements and the at least one transducer cell in
the other of the at least two transducer elements are apodized.
     [0044]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for biasing an ultrasonic
transducer element with a voltage is provided, comprising acts of using an output of a pulser
to drive the ultrasonic transducer element so that the ultrasonic transducer element emits an
ultrasonic pulse. The pulser may output a driving signal to one or more transducer elements
corresponding to a generated waveform. Thus, in at least some embodiments the pulser is a
circuit suitable to receive a waveform, for example from a waveform generator, and generate
pulses (e.g., voltage pulses) to drive an ultrasonic transducer element. Additionally, on at
least some occasions when the pulser is not being used to drive the ultrasonic transducer
element so that the ultrasonic transducer element emits an ultrasonic pulse, the output of the
pulser may be applied as a bias signal to the ultrasonic transducer element. In at least some
embodiments, such operation may be used to provide safe high voltage biasing of transducer
elements.
     [0045]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least one ultrasonic transducer element, and a pulser, coupled to the at least one
ultrasonic transducer, configured and arranged such that, on at least some occasions when the
at least one transducer element is being used to sense received ultrasonic energy, an output of
the pulser is used to bias the at least one ultrasonic transducer element.
     [0046]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for biasing at least one
ultrasonic transducer element integrated on a semiconductor die is provided, comprising an
act of biasing the at least one ultrasonic transducer element using a bias voltage applied to the
semiconductor die. In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of applying a
                                                  11

ground to a side of the at least one ultrasonic transducer element facing the subject while the
at least one ultrasonic transducer element is being used to image or treat the subject. Such
biasing, in some embodiments, provides safe operation of the ultrasonic transducer element,
minimizing risk of electric shock to the subject.
     [0047]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least one ultrasonic transducer element integrated on a semiconductor die. The
at least one ultrasonic transducer element is configured and arranged on the die such that a
bias voltage applied to the die is also used to bias the at least one ultrasonic transducer
element. In at least some embodiments, such a configuration is used to provide safe high
voltage biasing of transducer elements.
     [0048]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device is configured to image or treat a
subject using the at least one ultrasonic transducer element. A side of the at least one
ultrasonic transducer element that is configured to face the subject during imaging or
treatment is connected to a ground, which provides for safe operation in some embodiments
by minimizing the risk of electric shock. In some embodiments, the at least one ultrasonic
transducer element comprises one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. In
some embodiments, the one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one
or more capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) cells, and in some
embodiments comprise one or more CMOS ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells. The use of
such cells facilitates integration of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a
CMOS wafer, according to some embodiments.
     [0049]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for biasing at least one
ultrasonic transducer element is provided, comprising an act of applying a ground to a side of
the at least one ultrasonic transducer element facing the subject while the at least one
ultrasonic transducer element is being used to image or treat the subject. Such biasing
facilitates safe operation of the device in some embodiments by minimizing the risk of
electric shock.
     [0050]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is configured
to image or treat a subject using at least one ultrasonic transducer element. A side of the at
least one ultrasonic transducer element that is configured to face the subject during imaging
or treatment is connected to a ground, which in some embodiments provides for safe
operation by minimizing risk of electric shock.
                                                  12

     [0051]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method is provided for
configuring first and second transmit control circuits in an ultrasound device, wherein each of
the first and second transmit control circuits comprises a waveform generator that drives a
pulser for an ultrasonic transducer element is provided, and wherein the method comprises an
act of configuring the first and second transmit control circuits differently so that a length of a
first delay between when the first control circuit receives a transmit enable signal and when a
first waveform generated by the first waveform generator is applied to the first pulser is
different than a length of a second delay between when the second control circuit receives the
transmit enable signal and when a second waveform generated by the second waveform
generator is applied to the second pulser. In at least some embodiments, such control of the
delays provides beneficial operation, for example in terms of beneficial ultrasound imaging
functions.
     [0052]      In some embodiments, the act of configuring the first and second transmit
control circuits comprises acts of configuring the first transmit control circuit such that the
transmit enable signal is delayed by a first amount of time before it reaches the first
waveform generator, and configuring the second transmit control circuit such that the
transmit enable signal is delayed by a second amount of time before it reaches the second
waveform generator. The second amount of time is different than the first amount of time in
some embodiments.
     [0053]      In some embodiments, the act of configuring the first and second transmit
control circuits comprises acts of configuring the first waveform generator to have a first
starting frequency, and configuring the second waveform generator to have a second starting
frequency, which is different than the first starting frequency. In some embodiments, the act
of configuring the first and second transmit control circuits comprises acts of configuring the
first waveform generator to have a first starting phase, and configuring the second waveform
generator to have a second starting phase, which is different than the first starting phase. In
some embodiments, the act of configuring the first and second transmit control circuits
comprises acts of configuring the first transmit control circuit such that the first waveform
output by the first waveform generator is delayed by a first amount of time before it reaches
the first pulser, and configuring the second transmit control circuit such that the second
waveform output by the second waveform generator is delayed by a second amount of time,
which is different than the first amount of time, before it reaches the second pulser. In at
                                                 13

least some embodiments, such control facilitates generation of a variety of waveforms of
interest, for example for use in ultrasound imaging as described herein.
     [0054]     According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements, a first transmit control
circuit, and a second transmit control circuit. The first transmit control circuit comprises a
first pulser coupled to the first ultrasonic transducer element so as to drive the first ultrasonic
transducer element so that the first ultrasonic transducer element emits an ultrasonic pulse, a
first waveform generator coupled to the first pulser to provide a first waveform to the first
pulser in response to receipt of a transmit enable signal by the first transmit control circuit,
and at least one first component may be included that impacts a length of a first delay
between when the first transmit control circuit receives the transmit enable signal and when
the first waveform is applied to the first pulser. The second transmit control circuit comprises
a second pulser coupled to the second ultrasonic transducer element so as to drive the second
ultrasonic transducer element so that the second ultrasonic transducer element emits an
ultrasonic pulse, a second waveform generator coupled to the second pulser to provide a
second waveform to the second pulser in response to receipt of the transmit enable signal by
the second transmit control circuit, and at least one second component that impacts a length
of a second delay between when the second transmit control circuit receives the enable signal
and when the second waveform is applied to the second pulser. The at least one first
component is configured differently than the at least one second component, so that the
length of the second delay is different than the length of the first delay. In at least some
embodiments, the different delays provide beneficial operation, for example by facilitating
generation of a variety of desirable ultrasound waveforms.
     [0055]     In some embodiments, the at least one first component comprises a first shift
register that delays the enable signal by a first number of clock cycles before providing the
enable signal to the first waveform generator, and the at least one second component
comprises a second shift register that delays the enable signal by a second number of clock
cycles, which is different than the first number of clock cycles, before providing the enable
signal to the second waveform generator. In some embodiments, the at least one first
component comprises a first register containing a first value that determines a starting
frequency of the first waveform generator, and the at least one second component comprises
a second register containing a second value, which is different than the first value, that
determines a starting frequency of the second waveform generator. In some embodiments,
                                                  14

the at least one first component comprises a first register containing a first value that
determines a starting phase of the first waveform generator, and the at least one second
component comprises a second register containing a second value, which is different than the
first value, that determines a starting phase of the second waveform generator. In some
embodiments, the at least one first component comprises a first delay element that delays the
first waveform output by the first waveform generator by a first amount of time before it
reaches the first pulser, and the at least one second component comprises a second delay
element that delays the second waveform output by the second waveform generator by a
second amount of time, which is different than the first amount of time, before it reaches the
second pulser. In at least some embodiments, such configurations facilitate generation of a
variety of beneficial ultrasound waveforms, for example by providing for control over
waveform parameters,
     [0056]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for configuring at least
first and second waveform generators is provided, comprising an act of using a controller to
control values of first and second configurable operational parameters of the at least first and
second waveform generators. In at least some embodiments, such control makes the
waveform generator(s) programmable, such that they may be programmed or controlled to
provide desired waveforms, for example by controlling the waveform parameters.
     [0057]      In some embodiments, the method further comprises acts of generating a
sequence of event numbers with the controller, for the first waveform generator, retrieving a
first value associated with an event number provided by the controller from a first memory
associated with the first waveform generator and providing the first value to the first
waveform generator for use as the first configurable operational parameter. The method may
further comprise, for the second waveform generator, retrieving a second value associated
with the event number provided by the controller from a second memory associated with the
second waveform generator and providing the second value to the second waveform
generator for use as the second configurable operational parameter. In this manner, in at least
some embodiments, control over waveforms generated by waveform generators may be
achieved and desirable (e.g., medically relevant) ultrasound waveforms may be generated.
     [0058]      In some embodiments, the first and second configurable operational
parameters control the same functionality of the first and second waveform generators. For at
least one event number, the first and second values retrieved from the first and second
memories are different.
                                                 15

     [0059]      In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of using the
controller to transmit an enable signal to each of the first and second waveform generators.
In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of setting the first and second
configurable operational parameters of respective first and second waveform generators to
have different values. In this manner, in some embodiments different waveforms are
generated by the different waveform generators, which can be used to achieve desired
ultrasound waveform generation, for instance in ultrasound imaging.
     [0060]      According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising at
least first and second waveform generators configured to generate waveforms for
transmission by at least first and second corresponding ultrasonic transducer elements, the
first waveform generator comprising at least one first configurable operational parameter and
the second waveform generator comprising at least one second configurable operational
parameter, and a controller configured to control values of the first and second configurable
operational parameters. In this manner, desirable configurability of waveforms produced by
the waveform generator(s) is achieved in some embodiments.
     [0061]      In some embodiments, the controller is configured to output a sequence of
transmit event numbers. In some embodiments, the first waveform generator has associated
therewith a first event memory that stores values for the first configurable operational
parameter associated with respective transmit event numbers, and is configured to receive
transmitted event numbers from the controller and to output corresponding stored values for
the first configurable operational parameter to the first waveform generator for use thereby.
In some embodiments, the second waveform generator has associated therewith a second
event memory that stores values for the second configurable operational parameter associated
with respective transmit event numbers, and is configured to receive transmitted event
numbers from the controller and to output corresponding stored values for the second
configurable operational parameter to the second waveform generator for use thereby. In this
manner, in some embodiments the waveforms generated by the waveform generators may be
controlled, and desired waveforms may be achieved, for example when performing
ultrasound imaging.
     [0062]      In some embodiments, for at least one event number output by the controller,
the first event and second event memories store different associated values for the first and
second configurable operational parameters.
                                                16

     [0063]      In some embodiments, the controller is further configured to communicate a
transmit enable signal to each of the first and second waveform generators.
     [0064]      In some embodiments, the first configurable operational parameter can be set
to a different value than the second configurable operational parameter.
     [0065]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for making an ultrasound
device is provided, comprising an act of integrating digital receive circuitry on the same
semiconductor die as at least one CMOS ultrasonic transducer element. The digital receive
circuitry may be digital circuitry configured to receive signals from an ultrasonic transducer
cell or element. Examples are described herein. In some embodiments, such configurations
may provide or otherwise facilitate an integrated ultrasound device by allowing for ultrasonic
transducers and digital circuitry to be on the same semiconductor die. Compact ultrasound
devices result in some embodiments. Also, the digital circuitry facilitates digital
communication with external components in some embodiments, such as external computers,
smartphones, tablets, or other processing components.
     [0066]      According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising at
least one CMOS ultrasonic transducer element and digital receive circuitry formed on a
single integrated circuit substrate. In some embodiments, such configurations provide or
otherwise facilitate an integrated ultrasound device by allowing for ultrasonic transducers and
digital circuitry to be on the same semiconductor die. Compact ultrasound devices result in
some embodiments. Also, the digital circuitry facilitates digital communication with external
components in some embodiments, such as external computers, smartphones, tablets, or other
processing components.
     [0067]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for making an ultrasound
device is provided, comprising an act of fabricating at least first and second ultrasonic
transducer elements above (e.g., on a higher or later provided processing layer) CMOS
circuitry comprising at least first and second transmit control circuits and at least first and
second receive control circuits corresponding to the first and second ultrasonic transducer
elements. In at least some embodiments, such fabrication facilitates formation of integrated
ultrasound devices including ultrasonic transducers and associated circuitry. Also, the
devices may be compact due at least in part to positioning the ultrasonic transducers relative
to the circuitry as described.
                                                17

     [0068]     In some embodiments, the first and second receive control circuits each
comprises an analog to digital converter, and in some embodiments further comprises digital
signal processing circuitry. Inclusion of digital circuitry facilitates data processing and
digital communication with external components, in some embodiments.
     [0069]     In some embodiments, the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer
elements are fabricated above (e.g., on a higher or later provided processing layer) the CMOS
circuitry such that the first transmit control circuit and the first receive control circuit are both
disposed underneath the first ultrasonic transducer element, and the second transmit control
circuit and the second receive control circuit are both disposed underneath the second
ultrasonic transducer element. The circuit components may be underneath the ultrasonic
transducers in the sense that they may be fabricated on processing layers completed prior to
formation of the ultrasonic transducers, in some embodiments. In some embodiments, the
ultrasonic transducers are situated more closely to a device surface of a substrate (e.g., a
semiconductor substrate) than are the circuits. In at least some embodiments, such
configurations allow for compact ultrasound devices to be fabricated.
     [0070]     In some embodiments, the act of fabricating the at least first and second
ultrasonic transducer elements comprises fabricating the at least first and second ultrasonic
transducer elements on the same semiconductor substrate as the CMOS circuitry. In some
embodiments, the act of fabricating the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer
elements comprises acts of fabricating the first transmit control circuit so as to include a first
waveform generator coupled to drive a first pulser for the first ultrasonic transducer element,
and fabricating the second transmit control circuit so as to include a second waveform
generator coupled to drive a second pulser for the second ultrasonic transducer element. An
integrated ultrasound device is achieved in some embodiments, including signal generation
functionality on the semiconductor substrate.
     [0071]     According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements, and CMOS circuitry
disposed underneath the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements. The CMOS
circuitry has integrated therein first and second transmit control circuits and first and second
receive control circuits corresponding to the first and second ultrasonic transducer elements.
In at least some embodiments, such configurations facilitate formation of integrated
ultrasound devices including ultrasonic transducers and associated circuitry. The devices
                                                  18

may be compact due at least in part to positioning the ultrasonic transducers relative to the
circuitry as described.
     [0072]      In some embodiments, the first and second receive control circuits each
comprise an analog to digital converter. In some embodiments, the first and second receive
control circuits each further comprises digital signal processing circuitry. Inclusion of digital
circuitry facilitates data processing and digital communication with external components, in
some embodiments.
     [0073]      In some embodiments, the first transmit control circuit and the first receive
control circuit are both disposed underneath the first ultrasonic transducer element, and the
second transmit control circuit and the second receive control circuit are both disposed
underneath the second ultrasonic transducer element. In at least some embodiments, such
configurations allow for compact ultrasound devices to be fabricated.
     [0074]      In some embodiments, the first and second ultrasonic transducer elements are
integrated on the same semiconductor die as the CMOS circuitry, which in at least some
embodiments facilitates fabrication of integrated ultrasound devices.
     [0075]      In some embodiments, the first transmit control circuit comprises a first
waveform generator coupled to drive a first pulser for the first ultrasonic transducer element,
and the second transmit control circuit comprises a second waveform generator coupled to
drive a second pulser for the second ultrasonic transducer element.
     [0076]      In some embodiments, each of the first and second ultrasonic transducer
elements comprises one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. In some
embodiments, the one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one or
more capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) cells, and in some
embodiments the one or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one or
more CMOS ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells. The use of such cells facilitates integration
of the ultrasonic transducers with other components on a CMOS wafer, according to some
embodiments.
     [0077]      According to an aspect of the technology, a method for processing a signal
from an ultrasonic transducer element is provided, comprising an act of, with a component
integrated on the same semiconductor die as the ultrasonic transducer element, transmitting
data corresponding to an output of the ultrasonic transducer element out of the semiconductor
die as a high-speed serial data stream. Such operation in some embodiments facilitates
                                                 19

communication of the data to external processing components, such as computers,
smartphones, or tablets.
     [0078]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of converting an
analog signal corresponding to an output of the ultrasonic transducer element into a digital
signal, and the act of transmitting data comprises transmitting data corresponding to the
digital signal out of the semiconductor die as the high-speed serial data stream. Digital
communication with external components is provided in some embodiments.
     [0079]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, processing the digital signal
to reduce the data bandwidth thereof, which is beneficial in some embodiments to facilitate
further processing of the data and communication of the data to external component, such as
computers, smartphones, and tablets. In some embodiments, the at least one additional
component comprises a digital quadrature demodulator. In some embodiments the at least
one additional component comprises an averaging module. In some embodiments, the at
least one additional component comprises a matched filter, and in alternative embodiments
comprises a mismatched filter. In some embodiments, the at least one additional component
comprises a finite impulse response (FIR) filter. In some embodiments the at least one
additional component comprises a 1/2 band decimating low-pass filter. In some embodiments,
the at least one additional component comprises a dechirp module.
     [0080]     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with at least
one additional component integrated on the semiconductor die, prior to converting the analog
signal into a digital signal, processing the analog signal to decouple waveforms therefrom. In
some embodiments, such processing reduces an amount of data, which in turn facilitates
collection and transmission of ultrasound data. In some embodiments, the at least one
additional component comprises an analog quadrature demodulator, and in some
embodiments comprises an analog dechirp module.
     [0081]     In some embodiments, the act of transmitting comprises using a USB module
to transmit the data corresponding to the output of the ultrasonic transducer element out of
the semiconductor die as the high-speed serial data stream. In some embodiments, the USB
module comprises a USB 3.0 module. In some embodiments, the act of transmitting
comprises using a low voltage differential signal (LVDS) link to transmit the data
corresponding to the output of the ultrasonic transducer element out of the semiconductor die.
                                                 20

Such communication protocols facilitate use of the ultrasonic transducer elements with
external components.
     [0082]      According to an aspect of the technology, an ultrasound device is provided,
comprising at least one ultrasonic transducer element integrated on a semiconductor die, and
a high-speed serial data module, integrated on the semiconductor die, and configured to
transmit data corresponding to an output of the ultrasonic transducer element out of the
semiconductor die as a high-speed serial data stream. The high-speed serial data stream
facilitates the use of the ultrasound device in connection with devices that can receive serial
data streams, in some embodiments.
     [0083]      In some embodiments, the device further comprises an analog-to-digital
(ADC) converter, integrated on the semiconductor die, configured to convert an analog signal
corresponding to the output of the ultrasonic transducer element into a digital signal. In some
embodiments, the high-speed serial data module is configured to transmit data corresponding
to the digital signal out of the semiconductor die as the high-speed serial data stream. In
some embodiments, such operation facilitates communication of ultrasound data with
external devices.
     [0084]      In some embodiments, the ultrasound device further comprises at least one
signal processing module, integrated on the semiconductor die, and configured to process the
digital signal to reduce the data bandwidth thereof, which is beneficial in some embodiments
to facilitate further processing and communication to external components, such as
computers, smartphones, and tablets. In some embodiments, the at least one signal
processing module comprises a digital quadrature demodulator. In some embodiments, the at
least one signal processing module comprises an averaging module. In some embodiments,
the at least one signal processing module comprises a matched filter, and in alternative
embodiments comprises a mismatched filter. In some embodiments, the at least one signal
processing module comprises a finite impulse response filter. In some embodiments, the at
least one signal processing module comprises a      band decimating low-pass filter. In some
embodiments, the at least one signal processing module comprises a dechirp module.
     [0085]      In some embodiments, the device further comprises at least one additional
component, integrated on the semiconductor die, and configured to process the analog signal
to decouple waveforms therefrom before the ADC converter converts the analog signal into a
digital signal. In some embodiments, the at least one additional component comprises an
                                                 21

analog quadrature demodulator, and in some embodiments comprises an analog dechirp
module.
    [0086]       In some embodiments, the high-speed serial data module comprises a USB
module. In some embodiments, the USB module comprises a USB 3.0 module. In some
embodiments, the high-speed serial data module comprises a low voltage differential signal
(LVDS) link module. Use of such communication protocols facilitates use of the ultrasound
device with external components.
    [0087]       According to an aspect of the technology, a method for operating transmit
and/or control circuits for at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements integrated
on the same semiconductor die as the transmit and/or control circuits is provided, comprising
an act of using a controller to control values of operational parameters of the transmit and/or
control circuits for the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements. In at least
some embodiments, such control facilitates generation of desirable waveforms in some
embodiments.
    [0088]       In some embodiments, the method further comprises an act of, with a
controller that is not integrated on the semiconductor die, communicating the operational
parameters to the registers associated with the transmit and/or control circuits via a high
speed serial data link.
    [0089]       In some embodiments, the act of using the controller comprises using the
controller to control values of operational parameters of waveform generators of transmit
control circuits for the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements. In some
embodiments, the act of using the controller comprises using the controller to control values
of operational parameters of amplifiers of receive control circuits for the at least first and
second ultrasonic transducer elements.
    [0090]       According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising at
least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements integrated on a semiconductor die,
transmit and/or control circuits, integrated on the semiconductor die, and a controller
configured to control values of operational parameters of the transmit and/or control circuits
for the at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements. In some embodiments, such a
configuration represents at least part of an integrated ultrasound device, such as an ultrasound
imaging device configured to collect ultrasound data suitable for forming ultrasound images.
                                                  22

     [0091]     In some embodiments, the controller is not integrated on the semiconductor
die and is configured to communicate the operational parameters to the registers associated
with the transmit and/or control circuits via a high-speed serial data link. In some
embodiments, the controller is configured to control values of operational parameters of
waveform generators of transmit control circuits for the at least first and second ultrasonic
transducer elements. In some embodiments, the controller is configured to control values of
operational parameters of amplifiers of receive control circuits for the at least first and second
ultrasonic transducer elements.
     [0092]     According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising an
ultrasound imaging chip, and a high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) chip. The
ultrasound imaging chip and the HIFU chip are coupled to operate in combination to perform
image-guided HIFU. The ultrasound imaging chip may include suitable components (e.g.,
ultrasonic transducers and circuitry) to collect ultrasound data suitable for forming ultrasound
images. The HIFU chip may include suitable components (e.g., ultrasonic transducers and
circuitry) to apply HIFU energy. In some embodiments, images resulting from ultrasound
data collected by the ultrasound imaging are used to guide application of HIFU by the HIFU
chip.
     [0093]     According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising a
single chip integrated ultrasound imaging circuit and high intensity focused ultrasound
(HIFU) circuit. The device is configured to perform image-guided HIFU. Thus, a single
device is configured, in some embodiments, to perform multiple ultrasound functions.
     [0094]     According to an aspect of the technology, a device is provided, comprising an
arrangement of ultrasound transducer elements on a CMOS wafer, an integrated circuit
formed on the CMOS wafer and electrically coupled to the arrangement of ultrasound
transducer elements. The integrated circuit is configured to drive a voltage up to
approximately 50 V. Such voltage is beneficial in some embodiments for applying HIFU
and/or performing ultrasound imaging, which can call for use of high voltages.
     [0095]     In some embodiments, the integrated circuit comprises a submicron node. The
submicron node is configured to drive the voltage up to approximately 50 V. In some
embodiments, submicron nodes may refer to nodes that are smaller than approximately I
micron. In some embodiments, deep submicron nodes may refer to nodes that are smaller
than approximately 0.3 microns. In some embodiments, ultra-deep submicron nodes may
                                                23

refer to nodes that are smaller than approximately 0.1 micron. Thus, small integrated
ultrasound devices capable of sustaining high voltages useful in some ultrasound applications
are provided in at least some embodiments.
     [0096]      In at least some of those embodiments described herein in which an ultrasonic
transducer element is provided or used, the ultrasonic transducer element may comprise one
or more micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells. In some embodiments, the one or more
micromachined ultrasonic transducer cells comprise one or more capacitive micromachined
ultrasonic transducer (CMUT) cells, and in some embodiments comprise one or more CMOS
ultrasonic transducer (CUT) cells.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0097]      Various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed technology will be
described with reference to the following figures. It should be appreciated that the figures are
not necessarily drawn to scale. Items appearing in multiple figures are indicated by the same
reference number in all the figures in which they appear.
     [0098]      Fig. 1 shows an illustrative example of a monolithic ultrasound device
embodying various aspects of the present invention;
     [0099]      Figs. 2A-B show example implementations of an imaging device adapted to
transmit acoustic signals and receive only pulses that are backscattered from a subject;
     [0100]      Figs. 3A-B show an example implementation of a system that employs a pair
of opposing imaging devices to image a subject;
     [0101]      Fig. 4A shows an illustrative example of how an individual transducer element
in a transducer array may be arranged with respect to CMOS circuitry for that element;
     [0102]      Fig. 4B shows an illustrative example of an ultrasound unit comprising a
group of individual ultrasound devices that can operate together under the direction of a
controller;
     [0103]      Fig. 5 illustrates how, in some embodiments, a single transducer element may
fit within a larger transducer array;
     [0104]      Figs. 6A-E show five different examples of how a given transducer element
within an array might be configured in some embodiments;
                                                 24

     [0105]      Figs. 7A-C show examples of how transducer elements may be intermingled
to reduce grating lobes, etc., in some embodiments;
     [0106]      Figs. 8-9 illustrate examples of how transducers cells included in respective
transducer elements of an array may be coupled together to reduce grating lobes, etc., in some
embodiments;
     [0107]      Fig. 10 is a block diagram illustrating how, in some embodiments, the TX
control circuit and the RX control circuit for a given transducer element may be used either to
energize the element to emit an ultrasonic pulse, or to receive and process a signal from the
element representing an ultrasonic pulse sensed by it;
     [0108]      Fig. I 1A illustrates an embodiment of an ultrasound device in which digital
processing of a received signal may be performed off-chip;
     [0109]      Fig. 11 B illustrates an embodiment of an ultrasound device in which a
waveform generator and some or all of the other digital circuitry may be located off-chip;
     [0110]      Fig. 12A-B show examples of circuitry that may be included in each TX
control circuit, in some embodiments, so as to allow for true time delay and amplitude control
at every transmit location of the transducer array(s);
     [0111]      Fig. 13A shows an illustrative example of components that may be employed
in the timing & control circuit and each TX control circuit to selectively determine values for
the registers used by the waveform generator in the embodiments of Figs. 12A-B;
     [0112]      Fig. 13B shows an example of components that may be used to selectively
determine values for one or more of the operational parameters used by the TX control
circuits and/or the RX control circuits
     [0113]      Fig. 14 shows examples of inputs and outputs for an event controller of the
timing & control circuit that may be provided, in some embodiments, so as to control both the
transmission events and the receive events that occur in an ultrasound device;
     [0114]      Fig. 15A shows an illustrative example of a routine that may be performed by
the event controller shown in Fig. 14 so as to generate a suitable sequence of outputs for
controlling transmission and/or reception events;
     [0115]      Fig. 15B shows an illustrative example of a routine that may be employed in
connection with the embodiment of Fig. 13A to selectively determine values for one or more
of the operational parameters used by the TX control circuits and/or the RX control circuits;
                                                 25

    [0116]      Fig. 16 shows an alternative implementation of an ultrasound device in which
a single waveform generator may be shared by two or more TX control circuits;
    [0117]      Fig. 17-18 and 22-28 show illustrative examples of components that may be
included within the analog processing block and the digital processing block of the RX
control circuit shown in Fig. 10;
    [0118]      Fig. 19 shows an example implementation of the timing & control circuit
shown in Fig. 1;
    [0119]      Fig. 20 shows an example implementation of the clock generation circuit
shown in Fig. 19;
    [0120]      Fig. 21 shows an illustrative example of components that may be included in
the multiplexed digital processing block of the signal conditioning/processing circuit shown
in Fig. 10;
    [0121]      Figs. 29-30 illustrate examples of techniques for biasing transducer elements
in an array or other arrangement;
    [0122]      Fig. 31 shows examples of components that may be included in the
multiplexed digital processing block of the signal conditioning/processing circuit shown in
Fig.10;
    [0123]      Figs. 32A-B illustrate embodiments in which some or all of waveform
removal circuit and/or software, image formation circuit and/or software, and/or backend
processing circuit and/or software may be located off-chip;
    [0124]      Fig. 33 shows an example of a high voltage NMOS and PMOS layout that
may be used in some embodiments;
    [0125]      Fig. 34 shows an example of a very high voltage NMOS and PMOS layout
that may be used in some embodiments;
    [0126]      Fig. 35 shows an example of a high voltage NMOS and PMOS bidirectional or
cascoding layout that may be used in some embodiments;
    [0127]      Fig. 36 shows an example of a very high voltage NMOS and PMOS
bidirectional or cascoding layout that may be used in some embodiments;
    [0128]      Fig 37 shows an example of a pulser using a high voltage NMOS and PMOS
layout with a high voltage switch that may be used in some embodiments;
                                                26

     [0129]     Figs. 38A and 38B show examples of double and quadruple voltage pulse
drivers, respectively, that may be used in some embodiments;
     [0130]     Figs. 39A-B show an example of a pulser that does not employ a receive
isolation switch, which may be used in some embodiments;
     [0131]     Figs. 40A and 40B show an example of a time-interleaved single slope analog
to-digital converter (ADC) and the operation thereof, respectively, that, in some
embodiments, may be employed as one or more of the ADCs reference herein;
     [0132]     Fig. 41 shows an example of a time interleaved sample and hold circuit that
may be employed in some embodiments; and
     [0133]     Figs. 42A and 42B show an example of a time shared high speed ADC and the
operation thereof, respectively, that, in some embodiments, may be employed as one or more
of the ADCs referenced herein.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0134]     Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide new apparatuses,
systems, and methods that leverage the benefits of CMUT technology and push the forefront
of ultrasound image formation processing in ultrasonic scanners. In some embodiments, a
robust and highly integrated ultrasound "system on a chip" is provided with direct integration
with ultrasonic transducer arrays fabricated on the same die as a fully digital ultrasound front
end. According to some aspects of the present disclosure, this architecture may allow
sufficient access to fully digitized channel data to permit the use of state-of-the-art, off-the
shelf compute platforms for performing sophisticated image formation algorithms.
     [0135]     Previous efforts in this area to a large degree have either been focused on tight
integration of standard ultrasound architecture -by designing ASICs capable of performing
standard beamforming, but not more advanced techniques- or focused on implementation of
advanced imaging techniques, typically creating expensive devices lacking scalable
integrated technologies. The present disclosure addresses both of these issues by providing a
unique, cost-effective, and scalable integrated ultrasound platform-on-a-chip that is
sufficiently robust for advanced imaging applications.
     [0136]     Moving beyond standard beamforming methods requires an architecture that
can support more than just the transmission of time-delayed pulses. The full flexibility to
implement advanced waveform coding techniques requires dedicated system resources for
                                                 27

each element in a transducer array. The present disclosure overcomes this limitation with, for
example, a novel waveform generator. In some embodiments, integrated circuitry uniquely
enables this waveform generator to control a multi-level (e.g., 3 or more level) pulser and
provides the capability to implement many advanced ultrasound techniques in subsequent
processing - a feature that has not been previously achieved in a fully integrated
transducer/CMOS configuration.
     [0137]      Often, ultrasound receiver architectures need to reduce the data bandwidth
from multiple channels. One way to do this in conventional ultrasound is to use standard
beamforming methods. This operation is irreversible and is not compatible with many more
advanced ultrasound image reconstruction techniques. In many cases, the full channel data
rates may exceed the bandwidth of a system's external digital link. Some embodiments
disclosed herein employ a novel architecture that provides the flexibility to use the full
channel data in a way that enables an unprecedented level of control of the data rates for the
data leaving the chip.
     [0138]      The integrated circuit detailed herein is uniquely designed for an integrated
ultrasound imaging device. The CMOS contacts facilitate direct wafer bonding, sacrificial
release, flip-chip bonding, and/or other techniques for establishing interconnections to
ultrasound transducing elements.
     [0139]      The aspects and embodiments described above, as well as additional aspects
and embodiments, are described further below. These aspects and/or embodiments may be
used individually, all together, or in any combination of two or more, as the disclosure is not
limited in this respect.
     [0140]      Fig. 1 shows an illustrative example of a monolithic ultrasound device 100
embodying various aspects of the present invention. As shown, the device 100 may include
one or more transducer arrangements (e.g., arrays) 102, a transmit (TX) control circuit 104, a
receive (RX) control circuit 106, a timing & control circuit 108, a signal
conditioning/processing circuit 110, a power management circuit 118, and/or a high-intensity
focused ultrasound (HIFU) controller 120. In the embodiment shown, all of the illustrated
elements are formed on a single semiconductor die 112. It should be appreciated, however,
that in alternative embodiments one or more of the illustrated elements may be instead
located off-chip, as discussed in more detail below. In addition, although the illustrated
example shows both a TX control circuit 104 and an RX control circuit 106, in alternative
                                                 28

embodiments (also discussed in more detail below) only a TX control circuit or only an RX
control circuit may be employed. For example, such embodiments may be employed in a
circumstance where one or more transmission-only devices 100 are used to transmit acoustic
signals and one or more reception-only devices 100 are used to receive acoustic signals that
have been transmitted through or reflected by a subject being ultrasonically imaged.
     [0141]      It should be appreciated that communication between one or more of the
illustrated components may be performed in any of numerous ways. In some embodiments,
for example, one or more high-speed busses (not shown), such as that employed by a unified
Northbridge, may be used to allow high-speed intra-chip communication or communication
with one or more off-chip components.
     [0142]      The one or more transducer arrays 102 may take on any of numerous forms,
and aspects of the present technology do not necessarily require the use of any particular type
or arrangement of transducer cells or transducer elements. Indeed, although the term "array"
is used in this description, it should be appreciated that in some embodiments the transducer
elements may not be organized in an array and may instead be arranged in some non-array
fashion. In various embodiments, each of the transducer elements in the array 102 may, for
example, include one or more CMUTs, one or more CMOS ultrasonic transducers (CUTs),
and/or one or more other suitable ultrasonic transducer cells. In some embodiments, the
transducer elements 304 of each transducer array 102 may be formed on the same chip as the
electronics of the TX control circuit 104 and/or RX control circuit 106. Numerous examples
of ultrasonic transducer cells, elements, and arrangements (e.g., arrays), as well as methods of
integrating such devices with underlying CMOS circuitry, are discussed in detail in U.S.
application serial No. 61/794,744, entitled COMPLEMENTARY METAL OXIDE
SEMICONDUCTOR (CMOS) ULTRASONIC TRANSDUCERS AND METHODS FOR
FORMING THE SAME, bearing attorney docket No. B 1348.70007US00 and filed on March
15, 2013, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0143]      A CUT may, for example, include a cavity formed in a CMOS wafer, with a
membrane overlying the cavity, and in some embodiments sealing the cavity. Electrodes
may be provided to create a transducer cell from the covered cavity structure. The CMOS
wafer may include integrated circuitry to which the transducer cell may be connected. The
transducer cell and CMOS wafer may be monolithically integrated, thus forming an
integrated ultrasonic transducer cell and integrated circuit on a single substrate (the CMOS
wafer).
                                                 29

     [0144]     The TX control circuit 104 (if included) may, for example, generate pulses
that drive the individual elements of, or one or more groups of elements within, the
transducer array(s) 102 so as to generate acoustic signals to be used for imaging. The RX
control circuit 106 (if included), on the other hand, may receive and process electronic signals
generated by the individual elements of the transducer array(s) 102 when acoustic signals
impinge upon such elements.
     [0145]     In some embodiments, the timing & control circuit 108 may, for example, be
responsible for generating all timing and control signals that are used to synchronize and
coordinate the operation of the other elements in the device 100. In the example shown, the
timing & control circuit 108 is driven by a single clock signal CLK supplied to an input port
 116. The clock signal CLK may, for example, be a high-frequency clock used to drive one or
more of the on-chip circuit components. In some embodiments, the clock signal CLK may,
for example, be a 1.5625GHz or 2.5GHz clock used to drive a high-speed serial output device
(not shown in Fig. 1) in the signal conditioning/processing circuit 110, or a 20Mhz or 40
MHz clock used to drive other digital components on the die 112, and the timing & control
circuit 108 may divide or multiply the clock CLK, as necessary, to drive other components on
the die 112. In other embodiments, two or more clocks of different frequencies (such as
those referenced above) may be separately supplied to the timing & control circuit 108 from
an off-chip source. An illustrative example of a suitable clock generation circuit 1904 that
may be included within the timing & control circuit 108 is discussed below in connection
with Figs. 19 and 20.
     [0146]     The power management circuit 118 may, for example, be responsible for
converting one or more input voltages Vf from an off-chip source into voltages needed to
carry out operation of the chip, and for otherwise managing power consumption within the
device 100. In some embodiments, for example, a single voltage (e.g., 12V, 80V, 100V,
120V, etc.) may be supplied to the chip and the power management circuit 118 may step that
voltage up or down, as necessary, using a charge pump circuit or via some other DC-to-DC
voltage conversion mechanism. In other embodiments, multiple different voltages may be
supplied separately to the power management circuit 118 for processing and/or distribution to
the other on-chip components.
     [0147]     As shown in Fig. 1, in some embodiments, a HIFU controller 120 may be
integrated on the die 112 so as to enable the generation of HIFU signals via one or more
elements of the transducer array(s) 102. In other embodiments, a HIFU controller for driving
                                                 30

the transducer array(s) 102 may be located off-chip, or even within a device separate from the
device 100. That is, aspects of the present disclosure relate to provision of ultrasound-on-a
chip HIFU systems, with and without ultrasound imaging capability. It should be
appreciated, however, that some embodiments may not have any HIFU capabilities and thus
may not include a HIFU controller 120.
     [0148]      Moreover, it should be appreciated that the HIFU controller 120 may not
represent distinct circuitry in those embodiments providing HIFU functionality. For
example, in some embodiments, the remaining circuitry of FIG. I (other than the HIFU
controller 120) may be suitable to provide ultrasound imaging functionality and/or HIFU, i.e.,
in some embodiments the same shared circuitry may be operated as an imaging system and/or
for HIFU. Whether or not imaging or HIFU functionality is exhibited may depend on the
power provided to the system. HIFU typically operates at higher powers than ultrasound
imaging. Thus, providing the system a first power level (or voltage) appropriate for imaging
applications may cause the system to operate as an imaging system, whereas providing a
higher power level (or voltage) may cause the system to operate for HIFU. Such power
management may be provided by off-chip control circuitry in some embodiments.
     [0149]      In addition to using different power levels, imaging and HIFU applications
may utilize different waveforms. Thus, waveform generation circuitry may be used to
provide suitable waveforms for operating the system as either an imaging system or a HIFU
system.
     [0150]      In some embodiments, the system may operate as both an imaging system and
a HIFU system (e.g., capable of providing image-guided HIFU). In some such embodiments,
the same on-chip circuitry may be utilized to provide both functions, with suitable timing
sequences used to control the operation between the two modalities. Additional details with
respect to HIFU implementations and operational features that may be employed in the
various embodiments set forth in the present disclosure are described in co-pending and co
owned U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/654,337, entitled TRANSMISSIVE IMAGING
AND RELATED APPARATUS AND METHODS, filed October 17, 2012, the entire
contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0151]      In the example shown, one or more output ports 114 may output a high-speed
serial data stream generated by one or more components of the signal conditioning/processing
circuit 110. Such data streams may, for example, be generated by one or more USB 3.0
                                                 31

modules, and/or one or more 10GB, 40GB, or 100GB Ethernet modules, integrated on the die
112. In some embodiments, the signal stream produced on output port 114 can be fed to a
computer, tablet, or smartphone for the generation and/or display of 2-dimensional, 3
dimensional, and/or tomographic images. In embodiments in which image formation
capabilities are incorporated in the signal conditioning/processing circuit 110 (as explained
further below), even relatively low-power devices, such as smartphones or tablets which have
only a limited amount of processing power and memory available for application execution,
can display images using only a serial data stream from the output port 114. Examples of
high-speed serial data modules and other components that may be included in the signal
conditioning/processing circuit 110 are discussed in more detail below in connection with
Figs. 21 and 31. As noted above, the use of on-chip analog-to-digital conversion and a high
speed serial data link to offload a digital data stream is one of the features that helps facilitate
an "ultrasound on a chip" solution according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
    [0152]       Devices 100 such as that shown in Fig. 1 may be used in any of a number of
imaging and/or treatment (e.g., HIFU) applications, and the particular examples discussed
herein should not be viewed as limiting. In one illustrative implementation, for example, an
imaging device including an N x M planar or substantially planar array of CMUT elements
may itself be used to acquire an ultrasonic image of a subject, e.g., a person's abdomen, by
energizing some or all of the elements in the array(s) 102 (either together or individually)
during one or more transmit phases, and receiving and processing signals generated by some
or all of the elements in the array(s) 102 during one or more receive phases, such that during
each receive phase the CMUT elements sense acoustic signals reflected by the subject. In
other implementations, some of the elements in the array(s) 102 may be used only to transmit
acoustic signals and other elements in the same array(s) 102 may be simultaneously used only
to receive acoustic signals. Moreover, in some implementations, a single imaging device
may include a P x    Q array of individual  devices, or a P x Q array of individual N x M planar
arrays of CMUT elements, which components can be operated in parallel, sequentially, or
according to some other timing scheme so as to allow data to be accumulated from a larger
number of CMUT elements than can be embodied in a single device 100 or on a single die
112.
    [0153]       In yet other implementations, a pair of imaging devices can be positioned so as
to straddle a subject, such that one or more CMUT elements in the device(s) 100 of the
imaging device on one side of the subject can sense acoustic signals generated by one or
                                                 32

more CMUT elements in the device(s) 100 of the imaging device on the other side of the
subject, to the extent that such pulses were not substantially attenuated by the subject.
Moreover, in some implementations, the same device 100 can be used to measure both the
scattering of acoustic signals from one or more of its own CMUT elements as well as the
transmission of acoustic signals from one or more of the CMUT elements disposed in an
imaging device on the opposite side of the subject.
     [0154]      An illustrative example of an embodiment of an ultrasound unit 200 that is
adapted to transmit acoustic signals and receive only pulses that are backscattered from a
subject 202 is shown in Figs. 2A-B. The ultrasound unit 200 may, for example, comprise one
or more devices 100 arranged in an array on a circuit board (not shown) and supported by a
housing of the ultrasound unit 200. In the example implementation of Fig. 2A, a high-speed
serial data stream from the ultrasound unit 200 may be output to a serial port (e.g., a USB
port) of a computer 204 for further processing and/or display on a screen 206 of the computer
204. As discussed in more detail below, the computer 204 may or may not be required to
perform functions such as waveform removal, image formation, backend processing, etc.,
prior to displaying the image on the computer's display screen 206, depending on whether
components for achieving such functionality are integrated on the die 112 of one or more of
the devices 100, or are otherwise provided for in the ultrasound unit 200.
     [0155]      As shown in Fig. 2B, in other implementations, the high-speed serial data
stream from the ultrasound unit 200 may be provided to an input port of a smartphone 208 for
further processing and/or display. Because the processing power and memory available for
application execution in this type of device can be limited, in some embodiments, some or all
of the data processing (e.g., waveform removal, image formation, and/or backend processing,
etc.) may be performed on the die 112 of one or more of the device(s) 100, or otherwise,
within the ultrasound unit 200. In other embodiments, however, some or all of such data
processing may additionally or alternatively be performed by one or more processors on the
smartphone 208.
     [0156]      Another example of an implementation that employs a pair of opposing
ultrasound units 200 is illustrated in Figs. 3A-B. As shown in Fig. 3A, a pair of ultrasound
units 200 may be arranged so as to straddle a subject 202 (the ultrasound unit 200 behind the
subject 202 is not visible in Fig. 3A) and to output a serial stream of data to a desktop
computer or workstation 306. Fig. 3B illustrates how transducer array(s) 102 of the device(s)
 100 can be positioned so as to image a region 302 within the subject 202. As discussed
                                                33

above, the individual transducer elements 304 in a given array 102 can be used to generate
acoustic signals or to receive acoustic signals, or both, depending on the imaging technique
and methodology that is to be employed. Any of the foregoing examples may, for example,
allow 2D brightness mode (B-mode), 3D B-mode, or tomographic ultrasonic imaging.
     [0157]     In some embodiments, the devices and architectures disclosed herein may be
fully integrated with one or more sophisticated methods, such as, for example, one or more
synthetic aperture techniques. Synthetic aperture techniques may, for example, allow the
formation of high-resolution imagery from multiple receive aperture collections. Examples
of such techniques include, but are not limited to (1) transmit and receive on all pairs of
transducer elements (2) plane wave compounding, (3) inverse scattering solutions for any
transmit modes, (4) interpolation range migration (e.g., Stolt interpolation) or other Fourier
resampling techniques, (5) dynamic focusing, (6) delay-and-sum, and (7) virtual sources.
     [0158]     Numerous examples of other configurations and implementations of arrays of
ultrasonic transducer elements 304 that may additionally or alternatively be employed using
device(s) 100 such as those disclosed herein are described in co-pending and co-owned U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 13/654,337, entitled TRANSMISSIVE IMAGING AND
RELATED APPARATUS AND METHODS, filed October 17, 2012., incorporated by
reference above.
     [0159]     Fig. 4A shows an illustrative example of how an individual transducer element
304 in a transducer array 102 may be arranged with respect to CMOS circuitry 402 (including
a TX control circuit 104 and/or an RX control circuit 106) for that transducer element 304.
As shown, in some embodiments, each transducer element 304 may have associated with it a
corresponding TX control circuit 104 and a corresponding RX control circuit 106. Details of
example implementations of such circuits are described below. In the embodiment shown in
Fig. 4A, each of the transducer elements 304 is disposed directly above its corresponding TX
control circuit 104 and/or RX control circuit 106 so as to, for example, facilitate
interconnections, minimize cross-talk between components, minimize parasitic capacitances,
etc. (As discussed previously, details as to how transducer cells (e.g., transducer cells 602
described below), transducer elements 304, and transducer array(s) 102 may be integrated
with or otherwise formed above CMOS circuitry in this manner are provided in U.S.
application serial No. 61/794,744, entitled COMPLEMENTARY METAL OXIDE
SEMICONDUCTOR (CMOS) ULTRASONIC TRANSDUCERS AND METHODS FOR
                                                34

FORMING THE SAME, bearing attorney docket No. B 1348.70007US00 and filed on March
15, 2013, incorporated by reference above.)
    [0160]      It should be appreciated, however, that in other embodiments one or more of
the transducer elements 304 may be otherwise arranged with respect to one or more TX
control circuits 104 and/or one or more RX control circuits 106, so as to achieve other
benefits or advantages. As noted above, moreover, it should be appreciated that, in some
embodiments, some or all of the components of the TX control circuit 104 and/or the RX
control circuit 106 may be omitted from the die 112, the device 100, and/or the ultrasound
unit 200. In certain implementations, for example, the functionality of the TX control circuit
104 and/or the RX control circuit 106 may be performed by a different chip or even a
different device, e.g., a computer.
    [0161]      Fig. 4B shows an illustrative example of an ultrasound unit 200 comprising a
group of individual ultrasound devices 100a-100d that can operate together under the
direction of a controller 406. The ultrasound devices 100a-100d may be of the type described
herein for device 100, may be an ultrasound-on-a-chip device in some embodiments, or may
be other ultrasound devices. In some embodiments, each of devices 100a-100d may be a
single chip device including ultrasound transducers and integrated circuitry.
    [0162]      Moreover, the devices 100a-100d may be the same as each other or different
types of devices. For example, in some embodiments, the devices 100a-100d may all provide
the same functionality (e.g., ultrasound imaging functionality). In some embodiments, one or
more of the devices 100a-100d may be configured as ultrasound imaging devices and one or
more may be configured as HIFU devices. In some embodiments, one or more of the devices
100a- 100d may be controllable to operate as either an imaging device or a HIFU device, or
both.
    [0163]      It should be appreciated that any number of individual devices 100 may be
arranged in an array of two, four, eight, sixteen, or any other quantity, so as to form a larger
area that can be used to emit and/or detect ultrasonic energy. Thus, the four illustrated
devices 100a-100d represent a non-limiting example. In some such embodiments in which
multiple devices 100a-100d are coupled as shown, the devices 100a-100d may be packaged
within a common package or housing, may be disposed on a common substrate (e.g., a board
or interposer), or may be mechanically coupled in any suitable manner.
                                                35

     [0164]       An example of a clock generation circuit 1904 that may be included on the
dies 112 of individual devices 100 in some embodiments so as to allow the operation of
multiple devices 100a-100d to be synchronized is described below in connection with Figs.
 19 and 20.
     [0165]      Fig. 5 illustrates how, in some embodiments, a single transducer element 304
may fit within a larger transducer array 102. Figs. 6A-E show five different examples of how
a given transducer element 304 comprised of circular transducer cells 602 within an array 102
might be configured in some embodiments. As shown in Fig. 6A, in some embodiments,
each transducer element 304 in an array 102 may include only a single transducer cell 602
(e.g., a single CUT or CMUT). As shown in Figs. 6B-E, in other embodiments, each
transducer element 304 in an array 102 may include a group of individual transducer cells
602 (e.g., CUTs or CMUTs). Other possible configurations of transducer elements 304
include trapezoidal elements, triangular elements, hexagonal elements, octagonal elements,
etc. Similarly, each transducer cell 602 (e.g., CUT or CMUT) making up a given transducer
element 304 may itself take on any of the aforementioned geometric shapes, such that a given
transducer element 304 may, for example, include one or more square transducer cells 602,
rectangular transducer cells 602, circular transducer cells 602, asterisk-shaped transducer
cells 602, trapezoidal transducer cells 602, triangular transducer cells 602, hexagonal
transducer cells 602, and/or octagonal transducer cells 602, etc.
     [0166]      In some embodiments, at least two of (e.g., all) of the transducer cells 602
within each given transducer element 304 act as a unit and together generate outgoing
ultrasonic pulses in response to the output of the same pulser (described below) and/or
together receive incident ultrasonic pulses and drive the same analog reception circuitry.
When multiple transducer cells 602 are included in each transducer element 304, the
individual transducer cells 602 may be arranged in any of numerous patterns, with the
particular pattern being chosen so as to optimize the various performance parameters, e.g.,
directivity, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), field of view, etc., for a given application. In some
embodiments in which CUTs are used as transducer cells 602, an individual transducer cell
602 may, for example, be on the order of about 20-1 10pm wide, and have a membrane
thickness of about 0.5-1.Opm, and an individual transducer element 304 may have a depth on
the order of about 0.1-2.0 pm, and have a diameter of about 0.Imm-3mm, or any values in
between. These are only illustrative examples of possible dimensions, however, and greater
and lesser dimensions are possible and contemplated.
                                                 36

     [0167]     As described, for example, in Bavaro, V., et al., "Element Shape Design of 2
D CMUT Arrays for Reducing Grating Lobes, IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics,
Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control, Vol. 55, No. 2, February 2008, which is incorporated
by reference in its entirety, it is possible to select the shape of and interrelationships among
transducer elements 304 so as to optimize the performance parameters of a transducer array
102. Embodiments of the ultrasonic devices described herein may employ such techniques.
Figs. 7A-B show illustrative examples in which the transducer cells 602 (e.g., CUTs or
CMUTs) of asterisk-shaped transducer elements 304 are intermingled, and Fig. 7C shows an
illustrative example in which the transducer cells 602 of circular-shaped transducer elements
306 are intermingled, so as to achieve advantages such as the reduction of grating lobes.
     [0168]     In some embodiments, a similar effect of reducing grating lobes, etc., can be
achieved, either in addition to or in lieu of intermingling transducer elements 304 in the array
 102, by coupling one or more transducer cells 602 in a given transducer element 304 with one
or more transducer cells 602 in one or more adjacent or nearby transducer elements 304. By
using such a technique, better use of the total transducer area can be attained because a given
transducer cell 602 need not belong to only a single transducer element 304 and can instead
be shared by multiple transducer elements 304. This cell sharing technique may, in some
embodiments, be combined with an apodization technique in which some transducer cells
602 in a transducer element 304 are caused to radiate less power than other transducer cells
602 in the same element.
     [0169]     An illustrative example of a suitable cell-sharing technique is shown in Fig. 8.
In this example, transducer cells 602 (e.g., CUTs or CMUTs) at the peripheries of transducer
elements 304 are coupled to one another via coupling elements 802. In some embodiments,
the coupling elements 802 may, for example, comprise polysilicon resistors. In other
implementations, the coupling elements 802 may additionally or alternatively comprise
capacitive and/or inductive elements or features. For example, inductive couplings may be
created between pairs of transducer cells 602 by running conductors for to-be-coupled
transducer cells 602 in close proximity to one another. In some embodiments, certain
transducer cells 602, e.g., the transducer cells 602 on the periphery of the shared transducer
elements 304, may additionally be operated according to a desired apodization scheme. In
the embodiment shown in Fig. 8, for example, an apodization scheme may be applied to the
transducer cells 602 that are coupled to the transduce cells 602 in other elements so that they
radiate less power than the transducer cells 602 that are not so coupled.
                                                   37

     [0170]      In some embodiments, it can also be advantageous for different impedance
values to be used between different pairs of transducer cells 602, depending, for example, on
the proximity of a transducer cell 602 to the periphery of its transducer element 304. In some
embodiments, for example, pairs of transducer cells 602 that are both located on the
peripheries of two transducer elements 304 may be coupled together with an impedance value
that is higher than the impedance value used to couple together pairs of transducer cells 602
for which one of the transducer cells 602 is not on the periphery of its transducer element
304. This possible configuration is illustrated in Fig. 9. As shown, transducer cells 602a on
the periphery of two transducer elements 304 may be coupled together via a coupling 802a
(e.g., a polysilicon resistor) having a resistance value RI, whereas a transducer cell 602b
closer to the center of a transducer element 304 may be coupled to another transducer cell
602 via a coupling 802b having a resistance value R2. The resistance value R2 may, for
example, be greater than the resistance value RI. In some embodiments, a gradient of
impedance values may be employed that increases gradually from the periphery to the middle
portion of a transducer element 304. Again, such a cell sharing technique employing
different impedance values, or a gradient of impedance values, may be combined with an
apodization technique so as optimize the performance of the array(s) 102 for a particular
application.
     [0171]      As noted above, the above techniques for sharing and/or apodizing the
transducer elements 304 in the array(s) 102, either symmetrically or asymmetrically, and
either uniformly about the perimeters, according to some gradient, or otherwise, may be
combined with the intermingling technique discussed above, such that transducer elements
304 may have transducer cells 602 that are both intermingled and coupled together at their
peripheries or via a gradient of impedance values, or otherwise.
     [0172]      Fig. 10 is a block diagram illustrating how, in some embodiments, the TX
control circuit 104 and the RX control circuit 106 for a given transducer element 304 may be
used either to energize the transducer element 304 to emit an ultrasonic pulse, or to receive
and process a signal from the transducer element 304 representing an ultrasonic pulse sensed
by it. In some implementations, the TX control circuit 104 may be used during a
"transmission" phase, and the RX control circuit may be used during a "reception" phase that
is non-overlapping with the transmission phase. In other implementations, one of the TX
control circuit 104 and the RX control circuit 106 may simply not be used in a given device
100, such as when a pair of ultrasound units 200 is used for only transmissive imaging. As
                                                 38

noted above, in some embodiments, a device 100 may alternatively employ only a TX control
circuit 104 or only an RX control circuit 106, and aspects of the present technology do not
necessarily require the presence of both such types of circuits. In various embodiments, each
TX control circuit 104 and/or each RX control circuit 106 may be associated with a single
transducer cell 602 (e.g., a CUT or CMUT), a group of two or more transducer cells 602
within a single transducer element 304, a single transducer element 304 comprising a group
of transducer cells 602, a group of two or more transducer elements 304 within an array 102,
or an entire array 102 of transducer elements 304.
     [0173]     In the example shown in Fig. 10, there is a separate TX control circuit 104/RX
control circuit 106 combination for each transducer element 304 in the array(s) 102, but there
is only one instance of each of the timing & control circuit 108 and the signal
conditioning/processing circuit 110. Accordingly, in such an implementation, the timing &
control circuit 108 may be responsible for synchronizing and coordinating the operation of all
of the TX control circuit 104/RX control circuit 106 combinations on the die 112, and the
signal conditioning/processing circuit 110 may be responsible for handling inputs from all of
the RX control circuits 106 (see element 1004 in Fig. 10) on the die 112.
     [0174]     As shown in Fig. 10. in addition to generating and/or distributing clock signals
to drive the various digital components in the device 100, the timing & control circuit 108
may output either an "TX enable" signal to enable the operation of each TX control circuit
104, or an "RX enable" signal to enable operation of each RX control circuit 106. In the
example shown, a switch 1002 in the RX control circuit 106 may always be opened before
the TX control circuit 104 is enabled, so as to prevent an output of the TX control circuit 104
from driving the RX control circuit 106. The switch 1002 may be closed when operation of
the RX control circuit 106 is enabled, so as to allow the RX control circuit 106 to receive and
process a signal generated by the transducer element 304.
     [0175]     As shown, the TX control circuit 104 for a respective transducer element 304
may include both a waveform generator 1006 and a pulser 1008. The waveform generator
 1006 may, for example, be responsible for generating a waveform that is to be applied to the
pulser 1008, so as to cause the pulser 1008 to output a driving signal to the transducer
element 304 corresponding to the generated waveform.
     [0176]     In the example shown in Fig. 10, the RX control circuit 106 for a respective
transducer element 304 includes an analog processing block 1010, an analog-to-digital
                                                39

converter (ADC) 1012, and a digital processing block 1014. The ADC 1012 may, for
example, comprise a 10-bit, 20Msps, 40Msps, or 8OMsps ADC.
    [0177]      After undergoing processing in the digital processing block 1014, the outputs
of all of the RX control circuits 106 on the die 112 (the number of which, in this example, is
equal to the number of transducer elements 304 on the chip) are fed to a multiplexer (MUX)
1016 in the signal conditioning/processing circuit 110. The MUX 1016 multiplexes the
digital data from the various RX control circuits 106, and the output of the MUX 1016 is fed
to a multiplexed digital processing block 1018 in the signal conditioning/processing circuit
110, for final processing before the data is output from the die 112, e.g., via one or more
high-speed serial output ports 114. Examples implementations of the various circuit blocks
shown in Fig. 10 are discussed further below. As explained in more detail below, various
components in the analog processing block 1010 and/or the digital processing block 1014
may serve to decouple waveforms from the received signal and otherwise reduce the amount
of data that needs to be output from the die 112 via a high-speed serial data link or otherwise.
In some embodiments, for example, one or more components in the analog processing block
1010 and/or the digital processing block 1014 may thus serve to allow the RX control circuit
106 to receive transmitted and/or scattered ultrasound pressure waves with an improved
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and in a manner compatible with a diversity of waveforms. The
inclusion of such elements may thus further facilitate and/or enhance the disclosed
"ultrasound-on-a-chip" solution in some embodiments.
    [0178]      Although particular components that may optionally be included in the analog
processing block 1010 are described below, it should be appreciated that digital counterparts
to such analog components may additionally or alternatively be employed in the digital
processing block 1014. The converse is also true. That is, although particular components
that may optionally be included in the digital processing block 1014 are described below, it
should be appreciated that analog counterparts to such digital components may additionally
or alternatively be employed in the analog processing block 1010.
    [0179]      Fig. 11 A illustrates an embodiment of a device 100 in which digital processing
of a received signal is not performed on the die 112. In some implementations, this
embodiment may be essentially identical to the embodiment of Fig. 10 in terms of its basic
structure and function, except that the RX control circuits 106 might not, for example,
employ an ADC 1012 or a digital processing block 1014, and an on-chip signal
conditioning/processing circuit 110 may be omitted. It should be appreciated, however, that
                                                40

in the embodiment of Fig. I IA one or more buffers/drivers (not shown) may additionally be
employed to drive the analog signals onto output lines 1 102a-b of the die 112.
     [0180]      Fig. 11 B illustrates an embodiment of an ultrasound device in which a
waveform generator (not shown) and some or all of the other digital circuitry discussed
herein may be located off-chip, rather than on the semiconductor die 112. In some
implementations, this embodiment may be otherwise identical to the embodiment of Fig. 10
in terms of its basic structure and functionality. In some embodiments, the pulsers 1008 may
additionally or alternatively be located off-chip.
     [0181]      Fig. 12A shows an example of circuitry that may be included in each TX
control circuit 104, in some embodiments, so as to allow for true time delay and amplitude
control at every transmit location of the array(s) 102. In the illustrated example, the
waveform generator 1006 is a chirp generator that includes a set of registers 1202a that can
be set to control the characteristics of the chirp that is supplied to a tri-level pulser 1008.
Specifically, a phase register "Go" controls the starting phase of the chirp, the frequency
register "fo" controls the starting frequency of the chirp, and the chirp rate register "r"
controls the rate at which the frequency of the chirp changes over time. The comparators
1204a-b serve to discretize the waveform signal output by accumulator 1206, so that the
logical values DO, D1 supplied to the tri-level pulser 1008 are either "1,0," "O,0," or "0,1,"
depending on comparisons of the output of the accumulator 1206 to the values          VOHIGH  and
VIHIGH   in the registers 1202a.
     [0182]      Fig. 12B shows an alternative embodiment of the waveform generator 1006.
In the Fig. 12B embodiment, rather than using comparators 1204a-b to discretize the
simulated sine-wave signal output by the accumulator 1206, a look up table 1212a is used to
determine whether the output of accumulator 1206 is within a range defined by the values of
VOHIGH   and VOLOW in the registers 1202b, and a look up table 1212b is used to determine
whether the output of accumulator 1206 is within a range defined by the values of Vl 1mGH and
VILow in the registers 1202b.
     [0183]      The configuration and operation of a tri-level pulser suitable for use as the
pulser 1008 of Figs. 12A-B according to some embodiments, as well as the benefits of
employing such a pulser to drive a CMUT element, are described in Kailiang, C, "Ultrasonic
Imaging Front-End Design for CMUT: A 3-Level 30Vpp Pulse-Shaping Pulser with
Improved Efficiency and a Noise-Optimized Receiver," IEEE Asian Solid-State Circuits
                                                 41

Conference," November 12-14, 2012/Kobe, Japan, which is incorporated herein by reference
in its entirety. Those details will therefore not be repeated here.
     [0184]      In the example embodiments shown in Figs. 12A-B, the TX control circuit 104
is provided with three levels of control over the timing of the output of the pulser 1008. The
coarsest level of timing control is provided by a shift register 1208 (which, in some
embodiments, may be programmable, e.g., via the timing & control unit 108) located at the
input of the waveform generator 1006. The next finest level of timing control is provided by
the settings of the values "00" and "fo" in the registers 1202a-b. The finest level of timing
control is provided by delay lines 1210a-b, which may, for example, include PIN diodes that
provide for delays on the order of about 72 picoseconds to 22 nanoseconds, or any delay
value in between, though lesser and greater delays are also possible and contemplated.
     [0185]      Embodiments of the waveform generator 1006 thus described allow for
wideband or narrowband beamforming, coded excitation, e.g., Golay codes, Hadamard codes,
Walsh codes, Cyclic Algorithm New (CAN) coding, azimuth phase coding, and/or other
orthogonal waveforms, and/or may also allow the generation of gated continuous wave (CW)
or impulse generation. Numerous additional examples of waveform generation techniques
and options are described in co-pending and co-owned U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
13/654,337, incorporated by reference above, and will thus not be described further here.
     [0186]      Fig. 13A shows an illustrative example of components that may be employed
in the timing & control circuit 108 and each TX control circuit 104 to selectively determine
values for the registers 1202a-b used by the waveform generator 1006 in the embodiments of
Figs. 12A-B. As shown, each TX control circuit 104 may include an element event memory
 1304 that stores values for the registers 1202a-b corresponding to each of several "TX event"
numbers, and the timing & control circuit 108 may include an event controller 1302 that is
responsible for communicating appropriate TX event numbers to each of the TX control
circuits 104 on the die 112. With such an arrangement, the waveform supplied to each
transducer element 304 in an array 102 can change from pulse to pulse, and by appropriately
programming the event element memory 1304, complicated event sequencing, such as the
excitation coding, e.g., Azimuth coding, mentioned above, focus/planewave scanning, etc.,
can be achieved. Although not illustrated in Fig. 13, it should be appreciated that, for
operation with the waveform generator embodiment of Fig. 12B, values of V01e, and VI low
may additionally be provided from the element event memory 1304 to the waveform
generator 1006.
                                                 42

    [0187]      Fig. 14 shows inputs and outputs for an event controller 1302 of the timing &
control circuit 108 that may be provided, in some embodiments, so as to control both the
transmission events and the receive events that occur in a ultrasound device 100. In the
embodiment shown, the event controller is provided with the parameters        NTsanpies,
NRXSamples, NTXEvents
                   1  , and NRXEvents, and, when enabled via an enable signal "En," generates
and outputs TX and RX event numbers, as well as TX and RX enable signals, in response to
an input clock "Clk."
    [0188]      Fig. 15A shows an illustrative example of a routine 1500 that may be
performed by the event controller 1302 so as to generate a suitable sequence of outputs for
controlling transmission and reception events. The flowchart on the left-hand side of Fig.
 15A is an abstraction of the example routine illustrated by the flowchart on the right-hand
side of that figure. As shown, when the enable signal "En" is high, the routine alternates
between performing a TX event subroutine 1502 and an RX event subroutine 1504, until the
enable signal "En" transitions to low. In the example routine shown, after being enabled, the
routine 1500 first initializes the TX and RX event numbers to "0" (step 1506), and then
proceeds with the TX event subroutine 1502a-c. The TX event subroutine 1502 causes the
TX enable signal to be high for the number of samples specified by the       NTXsanples parameter
(step 1502b), and increments the TX event number by one (step 1502c) until the current TX
event number exceeds the value of the      NTXEvents  parameter (step 1502a). When the current
TX event number exceeds the value of the      NTXEvents   parameter (step 1502a), the routine 1500
proceeds to the RX event subroutine 1504.
    [0189]      The RX event subroutine 1504 causes the RX enable signal to be high for the
number of samples specified by the      NRXsamples  parameter (step 1504b), and increments the RX
event number by one (step 1504c) until the current RX event number exceeds the value of the
NRXEvents parameter (step 1504a). When the current RX event number exceeds the value of
the NRXEvents parameter (step 1504a), the routine 1500 returns to the step 1506, at which the
TX and RX event numbers are again initialized to "0," before beginning the TX subroutine
1502 once again. By using a routine such as that shown in Fig. 15A, the event controller
1302 is able to interact with the TX control circuits 104 in a device 100 so that any number of
the transducer elements 304 can fire a pulse at a time, and is able to interact with the RX
control circuits 106 so that an acquisition window can be acquired in a specified manner.
    [0190]      Possible operating modes of the event controller 1302 using the routine 1500
include (1) single transmit event/single receive event, (2) multiple transmit events/single
                                                   43

receive event, (3) single transmit event/multiple receive events, and (4) multiple transmit
events/multiple receive events. In some embodiments, for example, in connection with a
backscatter mode of operation, it may be desirable to follow each TX event with a
corresponding RX event, rather than cycling through a number of TX events and then cycling
through a number of RX events. Furthermore, for more complex events (e.g., a shear wave
backscatter event), it may be desirable to cycle through a number of TX events followed by a
single RX event during each iteration of the subroutines 1502, 1504. These are just a few
possible event control methodologies, however, and other sequences of events are possible
and contemplated.
     [0191]     Fig. 13B shows another example of components that may be used to
selectively determine values for one or more of the operational parameters used by the
waveform generator 1006 in the embodiments of Figs. 12A-B (e.g., "0,""fo," "r," "VOLOW."
"VOHIGH," "VIHIGH,"    and/or "V1LOW") and/or values for one or more operational parameters
for the RX control circuit 106, e.g., to control the LNA 1702, VGA 1704, etc. (discussed
below in connection with Figs. 17, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, and 30). Such values may, for
example, be stored in a set of "next state" registers 13 12a-b and a corresponding set of
"current state" registers 1314a-b for each transducer element 304.
     [0192]     As shown, a peripheral control module 1306, e.g., a USB 3.0 peripheral
controller, may be integrated on the semiconductor die 112 so as to allow an external
microprocessor 1308 to selectively communicate new values to the next state registers 1302
associated with some or all of the transducer elements 304 in an array 102. In some
embodiments, each group of state registers 1312, 1314 may be controlled by a corresponding
register control module 1310a-b. As shown, in some embodiments, the register control
modules 1310a-b may be daisy chained from one register control module 1310 to the next.
     [0193]     Fig. 15B shows an example of a routine 1508 that may be followed to
selectively configure the registers 1312, 1314 in some embodiments. As shown, the
microprocessor 1308 may, for example, receive an interrupt signal IRQ over the USB 3.0 link
prior to each frame. Upon receiving such an interrupt, the microprocessor 1308 may
determine whether the state of the current registers 1314 needs to be changed for the next
event (see step 1510). If the microprocessor 1308 determines that the state should change, it
may push a new complete sequence down the chain (see step 1512) and latch the new values
into the next state registers 1312. The new values in the next state registers 1312 may then be
latched into the current state registers 1302 on the frame boundary (see step 1514) for use in
                                                 44

executing the next event (see steps 1516 and 1518). The above process may then be repeated
to latch any desired new values into the next state registers 1312. Using such a technique to
selectively control operational parameters of the TX control circuit 104 and/or the RX control
circuit 106, may, for example reduce the required local memory requirements on the die 112,
and may allow every pulse to have a unique definition with any arbitrary combination since
the microprocessor 1308 may have fewer resource constraints than the sensor 102.
      [0194]     Fig. 16 shows an alternative implementation of an ultrasound device 100 in
which a single waveform generator 1006 may be shared by two or more TX control circuits
104. The shared waveform generator 1006 may, for example, be included in the timing &
control circuit 108. As shown, rather than using the timing & control circuit 108 to
selectively enable the TX control circuits 104 in a desired sequence, delay elements 1602
may be disposed between the shared waveform generator 1006 and the respective pulsers
1008 in the TX control circuits 106, with the delay elements 1602 being selected so as to
cause the output of the shared waveform generator 1006 to reach the respective pulsers 1008
according to a desired timing sequence. The delay elements 1008 may, for example, be
located in the TX control circuits 104, in the timing & control circuit 108, or elsewhere.
Using the illustrated technique, the transducer elements 304 of an array 102 may be pulsed
according to any desired timing sequence, as determined by the delays provided by the
respective delay elements 1602.
      [0195]     Fig. 17 shows an illustrative example of components that may be included
within the analog processing block 1010 and the digital processing block 1014 of each RX
control circuit 106 (see Fig. 10). In some embodiments, the components of the RX control
circuit 106 may, for example, collectively have a bandwidth from DC to 50MHz and provide
a gain of 50dB, with a noise figure of less than 4dB, aliased harmonic rejection of 45dB, and
channel isolation of 40dB. Such parameters are listed for illustrative purposes only and are
not intended to be limiting. Other performance parameters are possible and contemplated.
      [0196]     As shown in Fig. 17, the analog processing block 1010 may, for example,
include a low-noise amplifier (LNA) 1702, a variable-gain amplifier (VGA) 1704, and a low
pass filter (LPF) 1706. In some embodiments, the VGA 1704 may be adjusted, for example,
via a time-gain compensation (TGC) circuit 1902 (shown in Fig. 19) included in the event
controller 1302 of the timing & control circuit 108. The LPF 1706 provides for anti-aliasing
of the acquired signal. In some embodiments, the LPF 1706 may, for example, comprise a
2 "nd order low-pass filter having a frequency cutoff on the order of 5MHz. Other
                                                 45

implementations are, however, possible and contemplated. As noted above, the ADC 1012
may, for example, comprise a 10-bit, 20Msps, 40Msps, or 8OMsps ADC.
     [0197]      In the example of Fig. 17, the digital control block 1014 of the RX control
circuit 106 includes a digital quadrature demodulation (DQDM) circuit 1708, an averaging
circuit 1714 (including an accumulator 1710 and an averaging memory 1712), and an output
buffer 1716. The DQDM circuit 1708 may, for example, be configured to mix down the
digitized version of the received signal from center frequency to baseband, and then low-pass
filter and decimate the baseband signal. An illustrative example of a quadrature
demodulation circuit that may be employed as the DQDM 1708 is shown in Fig. 18. As
shown, the DQDM 1708 may, for example, include a mixer block 1802, a low-pass filter
(LPF), and a decimator circuit 1806. The illustrated circuit may allow for a lossless reduction
of bandwidth by removing unused frequencies from the received signal, thus significantly
reducing the amount of digital data that needs to be processed by the signal
conditioning/processing circuit 110 and offloaded from the die 112. The bandwidth
reduction achieved by these components may help to facilitate and/or improve the
performance of the "ultrasound-on-a-chip" embodiments described herein.
     [0198]      In some embodiments, it may be desirable to match the center frequency "fc"
of the mixer block 1802 with the frequency of interest of the transducer cells 602 that are
used in the array(s) 102. Examples of additional components that may, in some
embodiments, be included in RX control circuits 106, in addition to or in lieu of the DQDM
1708 and/or the other components illustrated in Fig. 17 are described below in connection
with Figs. 22-28. The averaging block 1714 in the embodiment shown (including
accumulator 1710 and averaging memory 1712) functions to average received windows of
data.
     [0199]      Fig. 19 shows an example implementation of the timing & control circuit 108.
As shown, in some embodiments, the timing & control circuit 108 may include both a clock
generation circuit 1904, and an event controller 1302. The clock generation circuit 1904 may
be used, for example, to generate some or all of the clocks used throughout the device 100.
An example implementation of the clock generation circuit 1904 is shown in Fig. 20. As
shown, in some embodiments, an external circuit 2002 may be used to generate a high-speed
(e.g., 1.5625GHz) clock, e.g., using an oscillator 2004 and a phase lock loop (PLL) 2006, that
can be fed to the clock generation circuit 1904. In addition to being fed to
serializer/deserializer (SerDes) circuitry 2008, the clock may be stepped down (e.g., via
                                                 46

frequency divider circuit 2010) to a first frequency for use for clocking certain components
on the die 112, and may be further stepped down (e.g, via frequency divider circuit 2016) to a
second frequency for use by other components on the die 112. In some embodiments, for
example, the frequency divider circuit 2010 may divide the 1.5625GHz clock so as to yield a
40MHz clock on the clock line 2022 for use within the die 112, and the frequency divider
circuit 2016 may further divide the 40MHz clock so as to yield a 20MHz clock on the clock
line 2024 for use within the die.
     [0200]     As shown, in some embodiments, the die 112 may have terminals 2026, 2028
connected to inputs of multiplexers 2012, 2018, respectively, to accept clock signals from
external sources, and may additionally have output terminals 2030, 2032 connected to the
outputs of the multiplexers 2012, 2018, respectively, to allow clock signals to be fed off-chip.
By appropriately controlling the multiplexers, this configuration can allow multiple chips to
be synchronized by daisy chaining clocks. Thus, for some implementations, this technique
allows multiple devices 100 to be extended into a fully synchronized, coherent M x N array
of devices 100 that can operate as a unit to image a subject.
     [0201]     Returning to Fig. 19, one illustrative example an event controller 1302 that
may be included in the timing & control circuit 108 is described above in connection with
Fig. 13A. As shown in Fig. 19, however, in some embodiments, the event controller 1302
may additionally comprise a TGC circuit 1902 that may be used, for example, to control the
gain of the VGAs 1704 in the analog processing blocks 1010 of the RX control circuits 106.
     [0202]     Fig. 21 shows an illustrative example of components that may be included in
the multiplexed digital processing block 1018 of the signal conditioning/processing circuit
 110 on the die 112. As shown, the multiplexed digital processing block 1018 may, for
example, include a re-quantizer 2102 and a USB 3.0 module 2104. In some embodiments,
the re-quantizer 2102 may, for example, perform lossy compression to provide bandwidth
reduction. The re-quantizer 2102 may operate in any of numerous ways, and aspects of the
present technology do not necessarily require the use of any particular type of re-quantization
technique. In some embodiments, the re-quantizer 2102 may, for example, find a maximum
magnitude of the incoming signal, scale all signals up to make the maximum signal full-scale,
and then throw away the lower N-bits from the signal. In other embodiments, the re
quantizer 2102 may additionally or alternatively covert the signal to log space and keep only
N bits of the signal. In yet other embodiments, the re-quantizer 2102 may additionally or
alternatively employ Huffman coding and/or vector quantization techniques.
                                                47

     [0203]        As shown in Fig. 21, one option for outputting a high-speed serial data stream
from the die 112 is a USB 3.0 module. Details as to the structure and operation of such a
USB 3.0 module are described, for example, in the Universal Serial Bus Revision 3.0
Specification, available at http://www.usb.org, the entire content of which is incorporated
herein by reference. Although Fig. 21 illustrates the use of a USB 3.0 module to provide a
high-speed serial data stream from the chip, it should be appreciated that other data output
techniques may additionally or alternatively be employed. For example, one or more 10GB,
40GB, or 100GB Ethernet modules may additionally or alternatively be employed. In other
embodiments, other high-speed parallel or high-speed serial data output modules and/or
techniques may additionally or alternatively be employed.
     [0204]        Fig. 22 shows an example implementation of the RX control circuit 106 that
includes a matched filter 2202 that may, for example, perform waveform removal and
improve the signal-to-noise ratio of the reception circuitry. Although labeled a "matched"
filter, the filter circuit 2202 may actually operate as either a matched filter or a mismatched
filter so as to decouple waveforms from the received signal. The matched filter 2202 may
work for either linear frequency modulated (LFM) or non-LFM pulses.
     [0205]        An illustrative embodiment of a circuit suitable for use as the matched filter
2202 is shown in fig. 23. As shown, the matched filter 2202 may, for example, include a
padding circuit 2302, a fast Fourier transformation (FFT) circuit 2304, a multiplier 2306, a
low-pass filter 2308, a decimator circuit 2310, and an inverse FFT circuit 2312. If employed,
the padding circuit 2302 may, for example, apply padding to the incoming signal sufficient to
avoid artifacts from an FFT implementation of circular convolution.
     [0206]        To operate as a "matched" filter, the value of "H(o)" applied to the multiplier
2306 should be a conjugate of the transmission waveform T(o). In some embodiments, the
filter 2202 may thus indeed operate as a "matched" filter, by applying a conjugate of the
transmission waveform Tx(o) to the multiplier 2306. In other embodiments, however, the
"matched" filter 2202 may instead operate as a mismatched filter, in which case some value
other than a conjugate of the transmission waveform T,(o) may be applied to the multiplier
2206.
     [0207]        Fig. 24 shows another example implementation of the RX control circuit 106.
In the Fig. 24 embodiment, the RX control circuit 106 includes a dechirp circuit 2402 that can
perform yet another technique to reduce bandwidth by isolating signals of interest. Dechirp
                                                  48

circuits as also sometimes referred to as "digital ramp" or "stretch" circuits. In various
embodiments, a dechirp circuit 2402 may be included within the analog processing block
1010, or may be included within the digital processing block 1014 of the RX, or may be
included in both the analog processing block 1010 and the digital processing block 1014 of
the RX control circuit 106. Using a dechirp circuit with an LFM waveform effectively
converts time to frequency.
     [0208]      An example of a digital dechirp circuit 2402 is shown in Fig. 25. As shown,
the dechirp circuit 2402 may include a digital multiplier 2502, a digital low pass filter 2504,
and a decimator circuit 2506. (An analog dechirp circuit - discussed below in connection
with Fig. 26 - would employ an analog multiplier and filter, rather than a digital multiplier
and filter, and would not include the decimator circuit 2506). The "reference chirp" shown in
Fig. 25 may, for example, be the same "chirp" as that generated by the waveform generator
1006 in the corresponding TX control circuit 104.
     [0209]      Fig. 26 shows yet another example implementation of an RX control circuit
 106. In this example, rather than using a DQDM circuit and a digital dechirp circuit in the
digital processing block 1014, an analog quadrature demodulation (AQDM) circuit 2602 and
an analog dechirp circuit 2604 are included in the analog processing block 1010. In such an
embodiment, the AQDM 2602 may, for example, employ an analog mixer (not shown) and a
local oscillator (not shown) to mix the incoming signal to baseband and then employ a low
pass analog filter (not shown) to remove unwanted frequencies from the analog signal. As
shown in Fig. 26, two ADCs 2606a-b (e.g., two 10-bit 1OMsps, 20Msps, or 40Msps ADCs)
may be employed in this embodiment to convert the output of the analog dechirp circuit 2604
into a digital signal format, but each of the ADCs 2606a-b may run at half the rate as the
ADC 1012 employed in the other examples, thus potentially reducing power consumption.
     [0210]      Still another example of an RX control circuit 106 is shown in Fig. 27. In this
example, a low-pass filter 2702 and multiplexer 2704 are included in the digital processing
block 1014, together with an averaging block 1714. In some embodiments, the low-pass
filter 2702 may, for example, include a   1/2 band decimating finite impulse response (FIR)
filter, and its operation may be configured to minimize the number of non-zero taps. An
illustrative example of such a FIR filter 2702 is shown in Fig. 28.
     [0211]      It should be appreciated that, in various embodiments, each RX control circuit
106 may use any of the foregoing analog and digital circuit elements either alone or in
                                                  49

combination with any of the other described circuit elements, and aspects of the present
technology do not necessarily require the specific configurations and/or combinations
illustrated herein. For example, each RX control circuit 106 may, in some embodiments,
include any one or more of an AQDM 2602, an analog dechirp circuit 2604, a DQDM 1708,
a matched and/or unmatched filter 2202, a digital dechirp circuit 2402, an averaging block
1714, and a low-pass filter 2702, in any combination and in any order with respect to the
other components, provided analog-to-digital and/or digital-to-analog conversion is
performed, as necessary. Importantly, the use of any or all of the above-described bandwidth
reduction techniques may, for some embodiments, help make the "ultrasound-on-a-chip"
designs described herein a practical, viable, and commercially feasible solution.
     [0212]     Fig. 29 illustrates an example of a novel technique for biasing the transducer
elements 304 in an array 102. As shown, the side of each of the transducer elements 304 that
faces the patient may be connected to ground, so as to minimize risk of electric shock. The
other side of each transducer element 304 may be connected to the output of the pulser 1008
via a resistor 2902. Accordingly, each transducer element 304 is always biased via the output
of the pulser 1008, regardless of whether the switch SI is open or closed. In some
embodiments, e.g., embodiments employing transducer elements 304 comprising one or more
CUTs or CMUTs, the bias voltage applied across the element may be on the order of 100V.
     [0213]     As illustrated in the accompanying timing diagram of Fig. 29, the switch SI
may be closed during a transmit operation and may be open during a receive operation.
Conversely, the switch S2 may be closed during a receive operation and may be open during
a transmit operation. (Note that there is always a gap between the opening of switch SI and
the closing of switch S2, as well as between the opening of switch S2 and the closing of
switch S1, so as to ensure the pulser 1008 does not apply an outgoing pulse to the LNA 1702
in the RX control circuit 106.)
     [0214]     As also shown in the timing diagram, the pulser 1008 may hold the bottom
plate of the transducer element 304 at its high output level at all times except when it is
applying a waveform pulse to its transducer element 304, and the waveform pulse applied
during the transmit phase may be referenced from the high output level of the pulser 1008.
Accordingly, each individual pulser 1008 is able to maintain an ideal bias on its
corresponding transducer element 304 at all times. As shown in Fig. 29, a capacitor 2904
may be placed between the switch S2 and the LNA 1702 of the RX control circuit 106 so as
                                                50

to block the DC bias signal (i.e., the high output of the pulser 1008) from reaching the LNA
1702 during receive operations (i.e., when switch S2 is closed).
    [0215]       Biasing the transducer elements 304 via their respective pulsers 1008 may
provide benefits in some embodiments, such as reducing cross-talk that would otherwise
occur if the elements 304 were biased via a common bus, for example.
    [0216]       Fig. 30 shows another illustrative example of a technique for biasing the
transducer elements 304 in an array 102. As with the embodiment of Fig. 29, the side of the
transducer element 304 facing the patient may be grounded, and a switch SI may be
positioned between the output of the pulser 1008 and the other side of the transducer element
304. A switch S2 in this case may be positioned directly between the non-grounded side of
the transducer element 304 and the LNA 1702 of a RX control circuit 106. In this example, a
capacitor is not positioned between the switch S2 and the LNA 1702, thus resulting in a
potentially significant savings of real estate on the die 112 that would otherwise be consumed
by such capacitors. In some embodiments, one of the two switches, i.e., either switch SI or
switch S2 may always be closed. In transmit mode, switch SI may be closed and switch S2
may be open. Conversely, in receive mode, switch S2 may be open and switch SI may be
closed.
    [0217]       To create the appropriate bias voltage at the output of each pulser 1008 and the
input of each LNA 1702, as illustrated in Fig. 30, the entire die 112 (except for the portion
that is used to bias the other side of the transducer elements 304, e.g., the top metal layer of
the transducer array 102) may be biased at an optimal bias voltage for the transducer
elements 304. This arrangement may thus facilitate safe high-voltage biasing of the
transducer elements 304 via both the pulsers 1008 and the LNAs 1702 at all times. In some
embodiments, the power supply of the chip may be floated so that it is not grounded, and
some or all of the control, configuration, and communication inputs/outputs to the die 112
can be isolated, e.g., using optical isolation techniques or appropriately sized capacitors, thus
DC blocking the high-voltage from leaving the chip.
    [0218]       Fig. 31 shows an illustrative example of components that may be included in
the multiplexed digital processing block 1018 of the signal conditioning/processing circuit
110 on the die 112, in addition to or in lieu of the components discussed above in connection
with Fig. 10. In some embodiments, one or more of the illustrated components may be
integrated on the die 112, together with some or all of the other circuitry described herein,
                                                 51

provided a sufficiently small process is used for the CMOS or other integrated circuit
fabrication methodology that is employed to fabricate the die 112.
     [0219]     In the example of Fig. 31, the signal conditioning/processing circuitry 110
includes a re-quantizer module 2102, a waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102, an
image formation circuit and/or software 3104, a backend processing circuit and/or software
3106, and a USB 3.0 module 2104. As the re-quantizer module and USB 3.0 module, and
alternatives thereto, were discussed above in connection with Fig. 21, those components will
not be described further here. As shown, in some embodiments, one or more processors
3108, e.g, CPUs, GPUs, etc., and/or large-scale memories may be integrated on the die 112,
together with the other circuitry discussed above, so as to enable some or all of the waveform
removal functionality, image formation functionality, and/or backend processing
functionality, as described below, to be implemented via software routines executed by such
components, as well as to achieve other functionality of the other components of the device
100 described above. Accordingly, in such embodiments, the waveform removal module
3102, image formation module 3104, and/or backend processing module 3106 shown in Fig.
31 may be implemented partially or entirely via software stored in memory either on the die
112 or in one or more off-chip memory modules. In some embodiments, one or more high
speed buses 3110, such as those used by a unified Northbridge chip, or similar components
may be employed to allow high-speed data exchange among the processors(s) 3108, memory
modules, and/or other components either located on the die 112 or disposed at some off-chip
location. In other embodiments, some or all of such functionality of the image formation
module 3104, and/or backend processing module 3106 may additionally or alternatively be
performed using one of more dedicated circuits integrated on the die 112.
     [0220]     In some embodiments, the waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102
may, for example, contain circuitry and/or software, similar to that discussed above in
connection with the RX control circuits 106, to perform deconvolution of the waveform,
dechirping, FFTs, FIR filtering, matched filtering and/or mismatched filtering, etc. Any or all
of the foregoing functionality may be performed, either alone or together with any of the
other functionality, in any order, by the waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102 on
the die 112. Alternatively, in some embodiments, such waveform removal circuit and/or
software 3102 may be separate from the die 112 but co-located with the die 112 in an
ultrasound unit 200 and the same circuit board and/or in the same housing.
                                               52

     [0221]     In some embodiments, the image formation circuit and/or software 3104 may,
for example, contain circuitry and/or software configured to perform apodization, back
projection and/or fast hierarchy back projection, interpolation range migration (e.g., Stolt
interpolation) or other Fourier resampling techniques, dynamic focusing techniques, and/or
delay and sum techniques, tomographic reconstruction techniques, etc. Any or all of the
foregoing functionality may be performed, either alone or together with any of the other
functionality, in any order, by the image formation circuit and/or software 3104 on the die
112. In some embodiments, the image formation circuit and/or software 3104 and the
waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102 may both be located on the die 112.
Alternatively, in some embodiments, such image formation circuit and/or software 3104
and/or the waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102 may be separate from the die 112
but co-located with the die 112 in an ultrasound unit 200 and the same circuit board and/or in
the same housing.
     [0222]     In some embodiments, the backend processing circuit and/or software 3106 on
the die 112 may, for example, contain circuitry and/or software configured to perform down
range and/or cross-range autofocusing, frequency dispersion compensation, non-linear
apodization, remapping, compression, denoising, compounding, Doppler, elastography,
spectroscopy, and/or basis pursuit techniques, etc. Any or all of the foregoing functionality
may be performed, either alone or together with any of the other functionality, in any order,
by the back-end processing circuit and/or software 3106 on the die 112. In some
embodiments, the backend processing circuit and/or software 3106, the image formation
circuit and/or software 3104, and/or the waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102 may
all three be located on the die 112. Alternatively, in some embodiments, such backend
processing circuit and/or software 3106, image formation circuit and/or software 3104, and/or
the waveform removal circuit and/or software 3102 may be separate from the die 112 but co
located with the die 112 in an ultrasound unit 200 and the same circuit board and/or in the
same housing.
     [0223]     In some embodiments, memory used to achieve some or all of the above
described functionality may be located on-chip, i.e., on the die 112. In other embodiments,
however, some or all of the memory used to implement some or all of the described
functionality may be located off-chip, with the remainder of the circuitry, software, and/or
other components being located on the die 112.
                                               53

     [0224]      Although not separately shown, it should be appreciated that, in some
embodiments, some or all of the operational parameters of the timing & control circuit 108,
the individual TX control circuits 104, the individual RX control circuits 106 and/or the
signal processing/control circuit 110 may be selectively configured or programmed via one or
more serial or parallel input ports to the die 112. For example, the timing & control circuit
110 may include a set of externally-writable registers containing values for the parameters
NTsaples, NTXEvents, NRXSamples, and/or NRXEvents discussed above in connection with Figs. 14
and 15; the registers 1202 of the TX control circuits 104 discussed above in connection with
Figs. 12A-B may be selectively programmed via one or more input ports; operational
parameters of one or more of the components of the RX control circuit 106 discussed above
in connection with Figs. 17, 18, and 22-28 may be selectively programmed via one or more
input ports; operational parameters for one or more of the re-quantizer circuit 2102 and/or
USB 3.0 circuit 2104 or other modules discussed above in connection with Fig. 21 may be
programmed via one or more input ports; and/or operational parameters for one or more of
the waveform removal circuit 3102, image formation circuit 3104, and/or backend processing
circuit 3106 discussed above in connection with Fig. 31 may be programmed via one or more
input ports.
     [0225]      Figs. 32A-B illustrate embodiments in which some or all of the waveform
removal circuit and/or software 3102, the image formation circuit and/or software 3104,
and/or the backend processing circuit and/or software 3106 may be located off-chip, e.g., on a
computing device 3202, 3206 separate from the device 100. As shown in Fig. 32A, on a
computing device 3202 not including one or more field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs)
3208, waveform removal may be performed by software executed by the processor 3204 of
the computing device 3202, together with image formation and backend processing functions.
As shown in Fig. 32B, on a computing device 3206 that includes one or more FPGAs 3208,
waveform processing functionality may be performed by the FPGA(s) 3208 in addition to or
in lieu of the processor 3204 of the computing device 3206 performing such functionality.
     [0226]      As described herein, aspects of the present disclosure provide for integration
of ultrasonic transducer elements with circuitry on a single chip. The ultrasonic transducer
elements may be used for ultrasound imaging applications, HIFU, or both. It should be
appreciated that such elements may operate at voltages higher than those conventionally used
for CMOS integrated circuitry, e.g., higher than voltages typically supported by deep
submicron CMOS circuitry. For example, such ultrasonic transducer elements may operate at
                                                 54

voltages between 20 V and 120 V, between 30 V and 80 V, between 40 V and 60 V, at any
voltage within those ranges, or at any other suitable voltages. HIFU applications may utilize
higher voltages than ultrasound imaging applications.
     [0227]     Thus, integration of ultrasonic transducer elements with circuitry on a single
chip may be facilitated by making such circuitry compatible with higher voltages than
traditionally used for CMOS integrated circuitry, i.e., by operating standard CMOS deep
submicron circuitry at higher than customary voltages.
     [0228]     There are two main issues that can limit the operating voltage of NMOS and
PMOS devices in CMOS circuits: (1) gate oxide breakdown, and (2) source and drain
(diffusion) breakdown. In many designs, diffusion breakdown is the first limitation, in that
the diffusion is specifically engineered in field effect transistors (FETs) to break down before
the gate oxide so as to protect the gate oxide. To increase the diffusion breakdown voltage,
the relative concentrations in the source/drain regions to the substrate should be adequate. In
some embodiments, lower doping levels in the source and drain regions may increase
breakdown voltage.
     [0229]     With respect to gate oxide breakdown, an excessive electric field may stress
the gate oxide, leading to rupture or gate leakage current. To increase the gate-to-drain or
gate-to-source breakdown voltage, the maximum electric field should be reduced.
     [0230]     Various methods can be used to make high-voltage CMOS circuits. Such
methods may, for example, be implemented at the level of mask logic operations and device
layout. The standard diffusion junction in NMOS technologies is N+ degenerately doped to
P-well retrograde doped typically on the order of 101 to 1018 dopants/cm3. A 3V device
typically breaks down at 6 volts. The source and drain may, for example, be defined by the
same implant that dopes the poly-Si gate. This is generally called a self-aligned transistor.
     [0231]     The standard gate-to-drain interface is a Lightly Doped Drain (LDD). The
LDD may, for example, be doped to reduce the electric field but may be minimized in size in
order to keep device length large enough to maintain gate control.
     [0232]     CMOS circuitry may, for example, be turned into high-voltage CMOS
circuitry by changing the diffusion scheme. For example, a mask-aligned source and drain
using N-well and P-well regions may be employed. For NMOS implementations, the
diffusion may be changed to N-well source/drain with P-substrate. For PMOS, the diffusion
may be changed to P-well source/drain regions with N-Well and Deep N-well. The source
                                                55

and drains may be defined by Shallow Trench Isolation (STI). Alternatively, for larger
voltages, the source and drains may be defined by gap space and thermal diffusion.
     [0233]     Examples of circuit layouts and associated structures that may be used to
implement high-voltage CMOS circuits in the various embodiments set forth in this
disclosure are shown in Figs. 33-42.
     [0234]     Fig. 33 shows an example of a high voltage NMOS 3301a and PMOS 3301b
layout that may be used in some embodiments, for example to provide high voltages a deep
submicron nodes. The reference numerals set forth in Fig. 33 correspond to the following
features and/or characteristics of the illustrated layout: 3302 -- Large junction breakdown due
to N-well (NW)/P-substrate (Psub 3303); 3304 - Reduced E-field due to LDD; 3306 - Large
junction breakdown due to P-well (PW)/NW; and 3308 - Reduced E-field due to LDD.
     [0235]     Fig. 34 shows an example of a very high voltage NMOS 3401a and PMOS
3401b layout that may be used in some embodiments. The reference numerals set forth in
Fig. 34 correspond to the following features and/or characteristics of the illustrated layout:
3402 - Mask defined doping for N+ implant ; 3404 - Thermally diffused PW/Psub; 3406
Thermally diffused NW/Psub; 3408 - Mask defined doping for P+ implant; 3410
Thermally diffused NW/Psub; and 3412 - Thermally diffused PW/Psub.
     [0236]     Fig. 35 shows an example of a high voltage NMOS 3501a and PMOS 3501b
bidirectional or cascoding layout that may be used in some embodiments. The reference
numerals set forth in Fig. 35 correspond to the following features and/or characteristics of the
illustrated layout: 3502 - N-well source and source gate extension; 3504 -- N-well drain and
gate extension; 3506 - P-Well source and source gate extension; and 3508 - P-well drain and
gate extension.
     [0237]     Fig. 36 shows an example of a very high voltage NMOS 3601a and PMOS
3601b bidirectional or cascoding layout that may be used in some embodiments. The
reference numerals set forth in Fig. 36 correspond to the following features and/or
characteristics of the illustrated layout: 3602, 3604 - Thermally diffused source and drain in
Psub; 3606 - Optional P-well gate implant for threshold increase; 3608, 3610 - Thermally
diffused source and drain in Psub; and 3612 - Optional N-well gate implant for threshold
increase.
     [0238]     Fig 37 shows an example of a pulser using a high voltage NMOS and PMOS
layout with a high voltage switch that may be used in some embodiments. The reference
                                                 56

numerals set forth in Fig. 37 correspond to the following features and/or characteristics of the
illustrated layout: 3702 - CUT; 3704 and 3706 represent transistor switches. To disable the
pulser, set Txp = 0, Txn = 1, and then set Txn=0 (PMOS will hold state as long as c node
stays within low voltage rails). 3708 represents an Enable switch for receive an enable signal
rxen to isolate from high voltage. The transistors may have thick channels as illustrated by
the thick gate lines in the figure, which signifies a high voltage (HV) device.
     [0239]     Figs. 38A and 38B show examples of a double and quadruple voltage pulse
drivers, respectively, that may be used in some embodiments. The reference numerals set
forth in Figs. 38A and 38B correspond to the following features and/or characteristics of the
illustrated layout: 3802 - Added cascading devices; 3804, 3806 - terminals of a transducer
element to be driven with an H-bridge circuit; 3808 - a receive element. In operation, turn on
the switch in receive mode (set Txn=1, Txp=0, and then set Txn=0); 3810 - Top plate of
transducer, which is automatically biased in Receive.
     [0240]     Figs. 39A-B show an example of a pulser that does not employ a receive
isolation switch, which may be used in some embodiments. The reference numerals set forth
in Fig. 39A-B correspond to the following features and/or characteristics of the illustrated
layout: 3902 - Resistor defined by N-well in Psub or by nonsilicided polysilicon on FOX;
3904 - High-voltage NMOS pull down device; 3906 - Direct connection to RX (no switch
yields less parasitics); 3908 - Automatic receive bias; and 3910 - Cascode device for double
voltage.
     [0241]     Figs. 40A and 40B show an example of a time-interleaved single slope ADC
and the operation thereof, respectively, that, in some embodiments, may be employed as one
or more of the ADCs reference herein. In the illustrated example, N parallel ADCs are used
for one channel to take alternating samples such that the sampling frequency of each ADC is
much lower than the Nyquist criterion. Such single slope ADCs may, for example, allow
large-scale sharing of resources: bias, ramp, and gray counter. Such an ADC approach may
thus provide a highly scalable, low power option.
     [0242]     Fig. 41 shows an example of a time interleaved sample and hold circuit that
may be employed in some embodiments. In the example shown, reference numeral 4102
signifies a step during which evens are sampled, and then odds are sampled, and reference
numeral 4104 signifies a step during which the odds are compared, and then the evens are
compared.
                                                 57

     [0243]     Figs. 42A and 42B show an example of a time shared high speed ADC and the
operation thereof, respectively, that, in some embodiments, may be employed as one or more
of the ADCs referenced herein. Such an ADC may, for example, employ a pipelined, SAR,
or flash architecture. Because a single high speed ADC having such an architecture may be
used to sample N channels, such an ADC approach may significantly reduce area
requirements.
     [0244]     The high voltage CMOS circuitry described herein may be configured to drive
voltages higher than those conventionally attainable with CMOS circuitry, and to provide
high voltages at deep submicron nodes. In some embodiments, voltages up to approximately
10 V may be handled or driven, up to approximately 20 V may be handled or driven, up to
approximately 30 V may be handled or drive, up to approximately 40 V may be handled or
driven, up to approximately 50 V may be handled or driven, up to approximately 60 V may
be handled or driven, any voltage within those ranges, or other suitable voltages, as non
limiting examples.
     [0245]     Having thus described several aspects and embodiments of the technology set
forth in the disclosure, it is to be appreciated that various alterations, modifications, and
improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations, modifications,
and improvements are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the technology described
herein. For example, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other
means andlor structures for performing the function and/or obtaining the results and/or one or
more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is
deemed to be within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Those skilled in the art
will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many
equivalents to the specific embodiments described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood
that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that, within the
scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto, inventive embodiments may be
practiced otherwise than as specifically described. In addition, any combination of two or
more features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods described herein, if such
features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is
included within the scope of the present disclosure.
     [0246]     The above-described embodiments can be implemented in any of numerous
ways. One or more aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure involving the
performance of processes or methods may utilize program instructions executable by a device
                                                  58

(e.g., a computer, a processor, or other device) to perform, or control performance of, the
processes or methods. In this respect, various inventive concepts may be embodied as a
computer readable storage medium (or multiple computer readable storage media) (e.g., a
computer memory, one or more floppy discs, compact discs, optical discs, magnetic tapes,
flash memories, circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other
semiconductor devices, or other tangible computer storage medium) encoded with one or
more programs that, when executed on one or more computers or other processors, perform
methods that implement one or more of the various embodiments described above. The
computer readable medium or media can be transportable, such that the program or programs
stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to
implement various ones of the aspects described above. In some embodiments, computer
readable media may be non-transitory media.
     [0247]     The terms "program" or "software" are used herein in a generic sense to refer
to any type of computer code or set of computer-executable instructions that can be employed
to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects as described above.
Additionally, it should be appreciated that according to one aspect, one or more computer
programs that when executed perform methods of the present disclosure need not reside on a
single computer or processor, but may be distributed in a modular fashion among a number of
different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present disclosure.
     [0248]     Computer-executable instructions may be in many forms, such as program
modules, executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules
include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular
tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program
modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.
     [0249]     Also, data structures may be stored in computer-readable media in any suitable
form. For simplicity of illustration, data structures may be shown to have fields that are
related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved
by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer-readable medium that convey
relationship between the fields. However, any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a
relationship between information in fields of a data structure, including through the use of
pointers, tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.
     [0250]     When implemented in software, the software code can be executed on any
suitable processor or collection of processors, whether provided in a single computer or
distributed among multiple computers.
                                                59

     [0251]     Further, it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a
number of forms, such as a rack-mounted computer, a desktop computer, a laptop computer,
or a tablet computer, as non-limiting examples. Additionally, a computer may be embedded
in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities,
including a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a smartphone or any other suitable portable or
fixed electronic device.
     [0252]     Also, a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These
devices can be used, among other things, to present a user interface. Examples of output
devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for
visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible
presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface
include keyboards, and pointing devices, such as mice, touch pads, and digitizing tablets. As
another example, a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in
other audible formats.
     [0253]     Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any
suitable form, including a local area network or a wide area network, such as an enterprise
network, and intelligent network (IN) or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any
suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include
wireless networks, wired networks or fiber optic networks.
     [0254]     Also, as described, some aspects may be embodied as one or more methods.
The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly,
embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than
illustrated, which may include performing some acts simultaneously, even though shown as
sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.
     [0255]     All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control
over dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or
ordinary meanings of the defined terms.
     [0256]     The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in
the claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
one."
     [0257]     The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims,
should be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements
that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases.
Multiple elements listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., "one or
                                                60

more" of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the
elements specifically identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those
elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A and/or
B", when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can refer, in
one embodiment, to A only (optionally including elements other than B); in another
embodiment, to B only (optionally including elements other than A); in yet another
embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
     [0258]     As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one,"
in reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list
of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This
definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements
specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers,
whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting
example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or, equivalently
"at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally
including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally including elements other than
B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, B, with no A
present (and optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at
least one, optionally including more than one, A, and at least one, optionally including more
than one, B (and optionally including other elements); etc.
     [0259]     Also, the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of
description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of "including," "comprising," or
"having," "containing," "involving," and variations thereof herein, is meant to encompass
the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.
     [0260]     In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases
such as "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving,"
"holding," "composed of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean
including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting
essentially of' shall be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively.
     [0261]     Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
                                                 61

integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
     [0262]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                 62

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       An ultrasound device, comprising:
         at least first and second ultrasonic transducer elements;
         a first transmit control circuit comprising:
         a first pulser coupled to the first ultrasonic transducer element so as to drive the first
ultrasonic transducer element so that the first ultrasonic transducer element emits an
ultrasonic pulse;
         a first waveform generator coupled to the first pulser to provide a first waveform to
the first pulser in response to receipt, by the first transmit control circuit, of a transmit enable
signal generated by a timing and control circuit; and
         at least one first component that impacts a length of a first delay between when the
first transmit control circuit receives the transmit enable signal and when the first waveform
is applied to the first pulser;
         a second transmit control circuit comprising:
         a second pulser coupled to the second ultrasonic transducer element so as to drive the
second ultrasonic transducer element so that the second ultrasonic transducer element emits
an ultrasonic pulse;
         a second waveform generator coupled to the second pulser to provide a second
waveform to the second pulser in response to receipt, by the second transmit control circuit,
of the transmit enable signal generated by the timing and control circuit; and
         at least one second component that impacts a length of a second delay between when
the second transmit control circuit receives the transmit enable signal and when the second
waveform is applied to the second pulser;
         wherein the at least one first component is configured differently than the at least one
second component, so that the length of the second delay is different than the length of the
first delay, and wherein the first and second ultrasonic transducer elements, the first transmit
control circuit, and the second transmit control circuit are formed on a single solid state
semiconductor die.
                                                   63

2.       The ultrasound device of claim 1, wherein:
         the at least one first component comprises a first shift register that delays the transmit
enable signal by a first number of clock cycles before providing the transmit enable signal to
the first waveform generator;
         the at least one second component comprises a second shift register that delays the
transmit enable signal by a second number of clock cycles, which is different than the first
number of clock cycles, before providing the transmit enable signal to the second waveform
generator.
3.       The ultrasound device of claim 1, wherein:
         the at least one first component comprises a first register containing a first value that
determines a starting frequency of the first waveform generator; and
         the at least one second component comprises a second register containing a second
value, which is different than the first value, that determines a starting frequency of the
second waveform generator.
4.       The ultrasound device of claim 1, wherein:
         the at least one first component comprises a first register containing a first value that
determines a starting phase of the first waveform generator; and
         the at least one second component comprises a second register containing a second
value, which is different than the first value, that determines a starting phase of the second
waveform generator.
5.       The ultrasound device of claim 1, wherein:
         the at least one first component comprises a first delay element that delays the first
waveform output by the first waveform generator by a first amount of time before it reaches
the first pulser; and
         the at least one second component comprises a second delay element that delays the
second waveform output by the second waveform generator by a second amount of time,
which is different than the first amount of time, before it reaches the second pulser.
                                                 64

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
