ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a fan holder (10) for a fan (16), comprising a frame (26), which has an
opening (27), through which a gaseous medium flows during operation, wherein the opening
(27) forms an accommodating region (28), which is designed to accommodate various
replaceable inserts, in particular a filter insert (24) and a flap device (21), and has at least one
retaining means for fastening the particular insert.
Fig. 1

    1/5
300
     FC

                                                 -1
         FAN HOLDER FOR A FAN, IN PARTICULAR OF A SWITCH CABINET
DESCRIPTION
[0001]     The invention relates to a fan holder for a fan, in particular of a switch cabinet, and to
a ventilating device, in particular for a switch cabinet, and to a set comprising a fan holder, at
least one flap device and at least one filter mat.
[0002]     The prior art discloses fan devices comprising a fan holder and a fan, which is
retained by the fan holder. In the case of such fan devices, cold air is taken in via a filter mat
comparatively far down in the switch cabinet and is forced out via a (coarse) exit filter mat
comparatively high up. This is intended to avoid the introduction of dust and to generate a
positive pressure in the cabinet. The fans known in the prior art are considered to be
comparatively ineffective and, in particular, not to be particularly variable.
[0003]     It is therefore an object of the invention to propose a fan holder, a fan device and a
set comprising a fan holder, wherein effective cooling can take place, and wherein it is possible
to cater in particular in a variable manner for the user's requirements.
[0004]     The object is achieved by a fan holder for a fan, in particular of a switch cabinet,
having the features of claim 1, said fan holder having a frame with an opening, through which a
gaseous medium flows during operation, wherein the opening forms an accommodating
region, which is adapted to accommodate different, interchangeable inserts, in particular a filter
insert and a flap device, and has at least one retaining means for fixing the respective insert.
[0005]     A core idea of the invention is to provide a fan holder in which it is possible to
introduce both a flap device and a filter insert. For this purpose, a corresponding retaining
device is provided on the frame or in the accommodating region. This means that the user can
insert a flap device into the fan holder. Overall, it is possible to cater in a variable manner for
the user's particular requirements. It has been found here that the main task of a fan device for
switch cabinets is that of cooling the switch cabinet by air circulation. The intention is to avoid
the introduction of dust in the process. The latter, however, is not the main task. It has also
been found that more effective cooling can be carried out if a filter device is installed in the
upper third of a switch cabinet. It has therefore been considered that the air, rather than being
expelled from a switch cabinet via a filter mat (which would result in reduced air throughput),
should be expelled via a flap device, which results in improved air flow. Prior-art fan devices

                                                   -2
have always provided a filter mat, in order to achieve corresponding protection against dust.
By virtue of an outlet filter being installed in the upper region of the switch cabinet (for example
in the upper half, in particular in the upper third, of the switch cabinet), an air stream is
distributed uniformly onto the inlet filter, which may be arranged in particular in the lower half,
in particular in a lower third, of the switch cabinet. This renders an inlet-filter mat comparatively
durable and less polluting. Since the fan holder can accommodate both a flap device and a
filter insert, the user of the fan holder can make a choice. The user can therefore choose
between improved air circulation or improved dust avoidance.
[0006]      It is particularly preferred to have a fan holder in which the opening is delimited
laterally by retaining surfaces, which retain the respective insert in the frame. In particular, the
accommodating region comprises a retaining device, in particular at least one elastic element
or at least one latching nose, which subjects the respective insert to a retaining force during
operation. This means that a user can readily change over the insert and adapt it to different
applications. For example, in order to fix the inserts in the accommodating region, it is possible
to arrange an elastic element in each of the corners of the accommodating region, said elastic
elements connecting the retaining surfaces.
[0007]      It is particularly advantageous, moreover, to provide a separable, in particular
pivotably mounted, cover, via which the fan holder, in particular the accommodating region
thereof, can be closed in the outward direction. The frame of the fan holder forms preferably
an, in particular all-round, step, on which the cover can be positioned.
[0008]      The aforementioned object is also achieved by a set having the features of claim 7.
The set comprises a fan holder according to the invention, a flap device and a filter insert,
wherein the flap device and filter insert can be accommodated in the same accommodating
region of the fan holder.
[0009]      The aforementioned object is also achieved by a ventilating device having the
features of claim 8. The ventilating device serves, in particular, for use in or on a switch cabinet
and comprises a fan holder according to the invention and also a fan. It is particularly
advantageous if the fan is connected to the fan holder via a fan funnel. The fan holder
advantageously ensures homogenization of the air stream.
[0010]      The aforementioned object is also achieved by a flap device having the features of
claim 10. The flap device is provided for use with a fan holder according to the invention and

                                                 -3
comprises a flap frame, which can be inserted into the accommodating region of the fan
holder, and holds at least one, in particular more than one, flap, said flaps, for the purpose of
deflecting the flow, at least partially covering over the flap frame. The flaps are advantageously
connected in a releasable manner to the flap frame. Furthermore, the fan holder is arranged
preferably in the upper half of the switch cabinet, in particular in an upper third of the switch
cabinet.
[0011]     The invention is explained in more detail hereinbelow with reference to the drawing,
in which:
[0012]     figure 1     shows a schematic exploded illustration of a ventilating device;
[0013]     figure 2     shows a schematic exploded illustration of a fan holder;
[0014]     figure 3     shows a schematic exploded illustration of the fan holder with a flap
device according to the invention;
[0015]     figure 4     shows a cross section through an assembled set comprising a fan
holder with flap insert, a fan and a cover; and
[0016]     figure 5     shows a schematic illustration of a switch cabinet having two ventilating
devices.
[0017]     The following description uses the same designations for like, and like acting, parts.
[0018]     Figure 1 shows a ventilating device comprising a fan holder 10 having a cover 11,
which is closed off in the direction of an outer side 12 by a front lattice 13. In the direction of an
inner side 14, the fan holder 10 is followed by a fan funnel 15. The fan funnel 15, in turn, is
followed by a fan 16. The fan 16 may be designed, in particular, in the form of an axial fan.
[0019]     In one use example, the ventilating device is connected to a switch cabinet (not
shown). The ventilating device here is inserted into an aperture in a switch-cabinet wall and
fixed there by a suitable fastening means, which is located in particular on the fan holder 10.
The ventilating device thus establishes a connection between the interior of the switch cabinet
and the outer region thereof. Depending on the direction of rotation of the fan 16 located in the
switch cabinet, air can be taken into the switch cabinet, or expelled therefrom, by the
ventilating device.

                                                  -4
[0020]      The fan holder 10 has a frame 26 and an accommodating region 28, which is formed
by an opening 27 in the fan holder 10. The fan holder 10 also has an all-round inner step 19,
which is formed on the frame 26 and against which the cover 11 can butt in the closed state of
the accommodating region 28.
[0021]      Different inserts can be inserted into the accommodating region 28 of the fan holder
10 and fixed there by suitable retaining means. In particular, the opening 27 is delimited by
retaining surfaces 29, which retain the respective insert in the frame. It is further possible to
provide specific retaining devices, for example latching, clip-action, rubber or magnetic
elements, in order to fix a respective insert in the accommodating region 28. In that
embodiment of the invention which is shown in figure 1, an insert is retained by elastic
elements 30, which subject the insert to a retaining force. The elastic elements 30 are
arranged in corners 31 of the accommodating region 28 and, in this way, connect the retaining
surfaces 29 to one another.
[0022]      The accommodating region 28 can be closed by means of the cover 11. In an open
state, the cover 11 allows access to the accommodating region 28. The cover 11 is fastened in
a removable, preferably pivotable, manner on the fan holder 10, in particular on an edge of the
frame 26 which, when the ventilating device is in the installed state, is directed toward the floor.
The cover 11 can be arrested in a closed position on the fan holder 10 by suitable snap-fit
and/or latching means or the like. The maximum opening angle of the cover 11 in relation to
the frame 26 is preferably predetermined by suitable delimiting elements. This makes it
possible overall for the inserts to be changed over particularly straightforwardly if required.
[0023]      As illustrated in figures 2 and 3, a flap device 21 may be installed, in the form of an
interchangeable insert, in the accommodating region 28. The flap device 21 comprises a flap
frame 32 and flap-retaining crosspieces 22 as well as a multiplicity of flaps (lamellae) 23 (of
which, to give a better view, only five are illustrated). The flaps (lamellae) 23 are mounted, in
particular clipped, in a pivotable manner on the retaining crosspieces 22 and can be pivoted by
air flowing out from the direction of the arrow 33. It is conceivable also to provide an active
pivoting device (for example an electromotive one). In the installed state, the flap frame 32 has
an outer surface butting preferably against the retaining surfaces 29.
[0024]      As an alternative to the flap device 21, the interchangeable insert used may also be
a filter insert 24 (see figure 2), which is inserted into the accommodating region 28. The filter
insert may be, for example, a filter mat or similar suitable filter element. Whereas, the main

                                                   -5
purpose of the filter insert is to filter out particles, such as dust or the like, the flap device 21
serves to realize an enhanced air throughput without any filtering of the air flowing through the
flap device 21. An end user of the ventilating device, consequently, can decide himself whether
to equip the fan holder with a flap device, for optimized air circulation/cooling in a switch
cabinet, or with a filter insert, for optimized dust avoidance.
[0025]      The front lattice 13 may also be in the form of a netting or similar air-permeable
material. Furthermore, for cleaning or changeover purposes for example, it may be designed
such that it can be released from the cover 11. Without the front lattice 13, the cover 11 forms a
rectangular (all-round) frame (having two rectilinearly running edges and two curved edges,
the rectilinearly running edges being located opposite one another, as are the curved edges).
Similarly, a main body 25 of the fan holder 10 also forms an all-round (rectangular) frame. Two
mutually opposite sides of the main body 25 are of rectilinear design; the other mutually
opposite sides are curved. In the installed state of the cover 11, the curved sides are in
alignment with the curved sides of the main body 25 of the fan holder 10. This achieves a
homogeneous unit.
[0026]      Figure 4, in addition, shows a cross section through an assembled set comprising a
fan holder 10 with a flap insert 21, a fan 16 and a cover 11. It is clear from figure 4 that the
cover 11, and the front lattice 13 accommodated therein, is arranged in front of the fan holder
10, as seen in the air-exit direction 39. This arrangement with the cover 11 and the front lattice
13 in front of the fan holder advantageously prevents foreign bodies, in particular water,
entering into the ventilating device through one or more open flaps 23.
[0027]      In particular the front lattice 13 in the embodiment shown in figure 4 is designed in
the form of a diffuser, which prevents liquid, e.g. when it rains, from entering into the interior of
the ventilating device and, in particular, into the fan. This is because, when the fan 16 is at a
standstill, there is a risk of the flaps 23 opening as a result of a, for example, draft-induced
negative pressure or of a mechanical blockage, wherein, consequently, the switch-cabinet
interior is open, and dirt, water, etc., could penetrate, when the fan 16 is at a standstill. The
diffuser is configured such that it conforms to relative standards, in particular in respect of the
safety requirements, and has an ideal flow shape for the exit of air. As figure 4 shows, the front
lattice 13, for this purpose, has a plurality of through-slots 39, of, in particular, oval or elliptical
cross section. The longitudinal axis L of the through-slots 39 is oriented in relation to the flaps
23 such that it is oriented essentially parallel to the flaps 23 in the (fully) open state (see line L'
in figure 4). This minimizes the flow resistance of the through-slots 39.

                                                 -6
[0028]      The front lattice 13 can be opened from the outside preferably only with the use of a
screwdriver and can be closed from the inside by the catch being locked. This provides for
straightforward protection against vandalism. Furthermore, the front lattice 13 is mounted
preferably in a rotatable manner in the frame of the cover 11, in order to allow for servicing to
be carried out.
[0029]      Figure 5, in addition, shows, schematically, a case where the invention is used with a
switch cabinet 34 and two ventilating devices 35 and 36. Whereas the lower ventilating device
35, in the vicinity of the floor, engages through the switch-cabinet wall 37 in a lower third of the
latter, the second ventilating device 36 is arranged in an upper third of the switch-cabinet wall
37. Of course, the two ventilating devices need not be arranged in the same switch-cabinet
wall.
[0030]      Provision may advantageously be made for the first, lower ventilating device 35 to
form an inlet ventilating device, which has a filter insert, e.g. a filter mat, in the accommodating
region 28 and in the case of which a fan takes air into the switch cabinet 34 in order to
generate a positive pressure. The positive pressure in the switch cabinet is intended to prevent
particles, in particular dust or the like, from entering into the switch cabinet through doors,
cable ducts or other openings.
[0031]      Whereas the prior art, thus far, also equipped the upper ventilating device 36 with a
filter insert, in order to reduce further the entrance of particles into the switch cabinet, the
ventilating device 36 may advantageously comprise a flap device 21, which is shown in figures
2 and 3, in the accommodating region 28. The upper ventilating device 36 serves as an outlet
ventilating device and, consequently, the fan has a direction of rotation which causes air to be
expelled from the switch cabinet 34. The air stream which is established in the switch cabinet
34 by way of the lower and upper ventilating devices 35, 36 is indicated in figure 5 by the arrow
38. In contrast to a filter mat, the flap device 21 does not reduce the air throughput, and this
makes it possible for the switch cabinet 34 to be cooled effectively in the upper region. The
result is improved air flow in the switch cabinet, which also has a positive effect on the filter
insert in the lower ventilating device 35, since the amount of air taken in is smaller and
therefore the air is filtered not just be way of that surface area of the filter insert which
corresponds to the impeller of the fan 16, but by way of the entire surface area of the filter. As
a result, the air taken in is thus distributed more uniformly overall over the entry filter insert.
The filter insert is thus more durable and contamination is reduced. Furthermore, the flap
device 21 advantageously prevents undesired foreign bodies, in particular dust, water or the

                                                  -7
like, from penetrating into the switch cabinet when the fan is at a standstill. This advantageous
effect is achieved in that, when the fan is at a standstill, the flaps 23 are closed and thus close
off the fan, and the switch-cabinet interior, against foreign bodies. The pivotable mounting of
the flaps means that the latter are thus retained in the closed state, preferably by the force of
gravity or by an electric motor, when the fan 16 has been switched off. It is only when the fan is
in the switched-on state that the flaps 23 are shifted into an open position by the resulting air
stream.
[0032]     The flexible insert options and the modular construction with the aid of the fan holder
according to the invention means that both systems can be readily realized by the present
invention: on the one hand, it is possible to achieve optimized dust avoidance by it also being
possible for the upper fan holder 10 to be readily provided, if required, with a filter insert 24.
Furthermore, for optimized air circulation, and thus for optimized cooling at the uppermost
location, it is possible, as an alternative, to insert a flap insert 21 into the fan holder, in order to
achieve the abovedescribed optimized-cooling function.
[0033]     The modularity of the system according to the invention provides for a particularly
high level of flexibility, allowing a user to adapt the fan holder individually to existing
requirements and, if necessary, to change over the inserts in the accommodating region 28 in
a particularly straightforward manner.

                                      -8
LIST OF DESIGNATIONS
                   10 Fan holder
                   11 Cover
                   12 Outer side
                   13 Front lattice
                   14 Inner side
                   15 Fan funnel
                   16 Fan
                   19 Step
                   21 Flap device
                   22 Retaining crosspieces
                   23 Flaps
                   24 Filter insert
                   25 Main body
                   26 Frame
                   27 Opening
                   28 Accommodating region
                   29 Retaining surfaces
                   30 Elastic element
                   31 Corners
                   32 Flap frame
                   33 Arrow
                   34 Switch cabinet
                   35 Ventilating device
                   36 Ventilating device
                   37 Switch-cabinet wall
                   38 Arrow
                   39 Air-exit direction
                   40 Through-slots
                   L  Longitudinal axis

                                                 -9
CLAIMS
1.         A fan holder for a fan (16), having a frame (26) which has an opening (27), through
which a gaseous medium flows during operation, wherein the opening (27) forms an
accommodating region (28), which is adapted to accommodate different, interchangeable
inserts, in particular a filter insert (24) and a flap device (21), and has at least one retaining
means for fixing the respective insert.
2.         The fan holder as claimed in claim 1,
           characterized in that
           the opening (27) is delimited laterally by retaining surfaces (29), which retain the
respective insert in the frame (26).
3.         The fan holder as claimed in claim 1 or 2,
           characterized in that
           the accommodating region (28) has a retaining device, in particular at least one
elastic element (30) or at least one latching nose, which subjects the respective insert to a
retaining force during operation.
4.         The fan holder as claimed in claim 3,
           characterized in that
           an elastic element (30) is arranged in each of the corners (31) of the accommodating
region (28), said elastic elements connecting the retaining surfaces (29).
5.         The fan holder as claimed in one of the preceding claims,
           characterized by the provision of
           a, preferably separable, cover (11), via which the fan holder, in particular the
accommodating region (28) thereof, can be closed in the outward direction.
6.         The fan holder as claimed in claim 5,
           characterized in that
           the cover (11) has a front lattice (13), which is designed in the form of a diffuser and
has a plurality of through-slots (39) in particular with an elliptical cross section.
7.         The fan holder as claimed in claim 5 or 6,
           characterized in that
           the frame (26) forms an, in particular all-round, step (19), on which the cover (11)

                                                 - 10
can be positioned.
8.         A set comprising a fan holder as claimed in claim 1, a flap device (21) and a filter
insert (24), wherein the flap device (21) and filter insert (24) can be accommodated in the
same accommodating region (28) of the fan holder (10).
9.         A ventilating device, in particular for a switch cabinet comprising a fan holder (10) as
claimed in one of the preceding claims, and also a fan (16).
10.        The ventilating device as claimed in claim 9,
            characterized in that
            the fan (16) is connected to the fan holder (10) via a fan funnel (15).
11.        A flap device (21) for a fan holder (10) as claimed in one of the preceding claims,
having a flap frame (32), which can be inserted into the accommodating region (28) of the fan
holder and holds at least one, in particular more than one, flap,(23).
12.        The flap device as claimed in claim 11,
            characterized in that
            the flaps (23) are closed when a fan (16) is in a switched-off state.
13.        The flap device (21) as claimed in claim 10, 11 or 12,
            characterized in that
            the flaps (23) are connected in a releasable manner to the flap frame (32).
14.        A ventilating device having a fan holder as claimed in one of claims 1 to 7 and having
a flap device as claimed in either of claims 10 and 11,
            characterized in that
            a longitudinal axis (L) of the through-slots (39) is oriented essentially parallel to the
flaps (23) in an open state.
15.        A switch cabinet comprising a ventilating device as claimed in claim 9 or 10,
            characterized in that
            the fan holder (10) is arranged in the upper half of the switch cabinet, in particular in
an upper third of the switch cabinet.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
