Abstract
A card fraud prevention network and method are provided. The network comprises a
plurality of network - connected data processing terminals, including at least one server.
Electronic authorisation requests are received for authorising the processing of an electronic
transaction associated with a cardholder's card data or account data. The received requests
are filtered according to predetermined or configurable criteria. A cardholder terminal is
identified, to which the request is sent in order to notify the cardholder that processing of an
electronic transaction is proposed, a parameter of which is the cardholder's card data or
account data. Means are provided for interrupting processing of the, or any further,
electronic transaction with that card data or account data, should the request correspond to
an unauthorised transaction.

                              Electronic Transaction Fraud Prevention
   The present application is a Divisional of Australian Patent Application 2009325912 titled
   "Electronic Transaction Fraud Prevention" and filed on 10 December 2009. The content
 5 of this application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
   Field of the Invention
   The invention relates to the prevention of electronic transaction fraud. In particular the
   invention relates to an apparatus and method for preventing electronic transaction fraud.
10
   Background to the Invention
   Electronic transaction fraud, particularly payment card fraud, is an ever - increasing
   problem for financial institutions, such as credit card companies and banks. The
   introduction     of    electronic memory means ('CHIP') on cards, in association with
15 personal identification numbers ('PIN') in recent years was aimed at eliminating such
   crime. Although card fraud in certain contexts has declined, card fraud in other areas has
   increased significantly.
   Examples of various types of card fraud include the following.
20
   Card-Not-Present (CNP)
   Card-Not-Present (CNP) refers to Internet, phone and mail order fraud. Fraud happens
   when stolen card details are used pay for services and goods over the phone, the Internet
   or by mail order. The main problem for fighting this type of fraud efficiently, is that the
25 cardholder is not present at the time of the fraud, therefore does not know about the
   fraud until after the fraud has been committed, as and when a statement of transactions
   for card is checked and evidences the fraudulent use.
   Counterfeit Fraud
30 Counterfeit Fraud refers to situations wherein the magnetic stripe details of a card are
   fraudulently acquired, and one or more counterfeit cards, which are fake replicas of the
   card, are created therefrom. Stolen card details are transmitted to overseas accomplices,
   where counterfeit cards are created and used in areas where CHIP-and-PIN technology is
   yet to be introduced.
35
   Lost and Stolen Card Fraud

                                                 2
    Lost and stolen card fraud refers to fraudulent purchases committed with cards that have
    been lost by, or stolen from, the cardholder. Most lost and stolen card fraud takes place
    in shops that have yet to introduce CHIP-and-PIN technology or equipment: in such
    instances, a fraudulent user does not require a PIN and can use the card before the
 5  cardholder has reported the card lost or stolen. Some technologies are in place to
    counteract this type of fraud, for instance automated analysis of spending patterns
    performed upon customer card accounts. This type of fraud has declined in recent years,
    but remains important.
10  Mail non-receipt Fraud
    Mail non - receipt fraud refers to fraudulent purchases committed with cards that have
    been stolen after card companies issue there and before the cardholders receive them,
    usually by intercepting mail containing a new or replacement card and/or PIN. This may
     occur in apartment buildings, or at the time of moving lodgings where the cardholder
15   fails to redirect their mail in good time. This type of fraud has also declined in recent
     years, because fewer cards are issued and cardholders routinely maintain the same PIN
     for successive cards, such that a new PIN is not sent out.
     Card ID Theft
20   Card ID theft refers to situations wherein new card accounts are opened with financial
     institutions, or existing card accounts are hijacked, on the evidence of fraudulently
     obtained cards or card details, along with fraudulently obtained personal information.
     Two main types of Card ID theft are known:
      " Application fraud corresponds to the use of stolen or fake documents to open a card
25        account in another person's name. Criminals may try to steal documents such as
          utility bills and bank statements to build up sufficient convincing personal
          information, or may use counterfeit documents for identification purposes; and
      * Account take-over corresponds to attempts to take over another person's account,
          first by gathering information about the intended victim, then contacting their
 30       financial institution or credit card issuer whilst masquerading as the genuine
          cardholder. Funds may then be transferred out of the account, or the address on the
          account may be changed and new or replacement cards may be ordered then sent to
          the changed address.

                                                  3
    ATM Fraud
    ATM Fraud refers to the fraudulent copying of the data stored on a card's magnetic
    stripe and recording of the PIN, while a cardholder uses an Automatic Teller Machine.
 5  Three main types of ATM Fraud are known:
    * Shoulder surfing refers to the practice of looking over a cardholder shoulder to
         observe and obtain the PIN, then stealing the card at a later occasion using
         distraction.
    * Device Card tapping refers to the practice of inserting a device into an ATM slot,
10       which retains the card. A cardholder is then tricked into inputting the PIN again and,
         when the cardholder leaves the ATM, the card can be stolen then used to withdraw
         funds with the obtained PIN.
     * ATM skimming refers to the practice of attaching a device to an ATM, which
         records the data stored on a card's magnetic stripe as it is inserted into the ATM slot,
15       and hiding a miniature camera overlooking the user input keys to observe and
                                                                                                  to
         capture the PIN as it is input by a cardholder. The data obtained may be used
         create counterfeit cards with genuine data encoded on their magnetic stripes, which
          can be used to withdraw funds with the obtained PIN, generally from cash machines
          overseas.
20
     Phishing
     Phishing refers to the fraudulent acquisition of personal information such as usernames,
     passwords and credit card details from cardholders, by masquerading as an existing
     service supplier or trustworthy entity in an electronic communication. Communications,
                                                                                       sites, online
25   typically emails, purporting to be sent by popular social websites, auction
                                                                                       used to lure
     payment processors, financial services providers or IT administrators are
     unsuspecting users into inputting personal information at fraudulent websites, the look
      and feel of which is substantially identical to the authentic, original website.
 30   Due to the introduction of CHIP-and-PIN, card fraud has shifted to contexts wherein
                                                                                           overseas
      this authentication technology is not yet in use, such as the Internet and some
      countries. Card fraud at the expense of retailers has declined whenever and wherever

                                                 4
    CHIP-and-PIN has been introduced, however fraudulent Card-Not-Present transactions
    are increasing.
                                                                                              and
    It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a fraud prevention apparatus
5   method to at least mitigate the above problems.
    Summary of the Invention
                                                                               an apparatus for
    According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided
    preventing electronic transaction fraud, comprising
                                                                                          at least
10           a plurality of network-connected data processing terminals, including
     one server,
                                                                                     from a first
              means for receiving an electronic authorisation request at the server
                                                                              processing of an
     data processing terminal, wherein the request is for authorising the
     electronic transaction associated with a cardholder's card data or account data;
15            means for filtering the received request according to predetermined filtering
     criteria;
                                                                                    a cardholder
              means for identifying at least a second data processing terminal as
     device;
                                                                                       cardholder
               means for sending the request to the cardholder device, to notify the
                                                                                of which is said
20   that processing of an electronic transaction is proposed, a parameter
      cardholder's card data or account data; and
               means for receiving interrupt data from the second terminal and for interrupting
                                                                with that card data or account
      processing of the, or any further, electronic transaction
      data.
 25
                                                                             card at the earliest
      The individual most apt to detect fraud in relation to a payment
                                                               knows precisely whether he is
      possible opportunity, is the card's cardholder, who
                                                                                according to the
      conducting a transaction or not at any given time. The apparatus
                                                                                        impending
      invention advantageously allows a cardholder to receive notification of an
                                                                             or account, as the
 30    electronic transaction involving the cardholder's payment card
                                                                                 to the invention
       transaction happens in real time or off-line. The apparatus according
                                                                                       the, or any
       advantageously further allows the cardholder to interrupt processing of

                                                   5
                                                                                               is
    further, electronic transaction with that card data or account data, if the notification
    for a fraudulent transaction.
    The apparatus preferably further comprises means for allowing processing of the
 5  electronic transaction. This aspect of the apparatus advantageously subjects the
                                                                                        approval
    processing of the electronic transaction to the cardholder's express
                                                                                 the means for
     independently of the first terminal's own operating configuration,
     allowing embodying a redundant security mechanism when combined with, for
     instance, inputting a Personal identification Number in a merchant terminal or cash
10   dispensing terminal.
                                                                          preferably includes at
     The plurality of network-connected data processing terminals
     least the first and second data processing terminals and the server.
                                                                                             first
15    The first data processing terminal data and the server may be connected by a
      network, the second data processing terminal data and the server may be connected by
      the first or a second network.
      The first or second network is preferably selected from the group comprising a public
                                                                                             area
20     switched telephone network, a cellular telecommunication network, a wide
       network, a local area network, a wireless local area network, a virtual private network
       and an interbank network.
       The first data processing terminal is preferably selected from the group comprising an
 25    electronic point of sale terminal, an electronic card processing terminal, an automatic
       teller machine, a telephone, a cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a portable computing
       device, a desktop computing device.
       The at least second data processing terminal is preferably selected from the group
                                                                                       a personal
 30    comprising a telephone, a cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager,
                                                                             device.
       digital assistant, a portable computing device, a desktop computing

                                                   6
    The means for identifying the at least second data processing terminal as a cardholder
    device preferably comprises a database storing at least, for each cardholder, card or
    account data associated with a network address of at least a second data processing
    terminal. The identifying means may advantageously identify a plurality of data
 5  processing terminals (for example a PC) as respective devices of a same cardholder,
    acting as a redundant security mechanism if the at least second terminal is unavailable
    for communication thereto due to unforeseen circumstances, to ensure the cardholder is
    still notified in the shortest possible period of time.
10  The means for filtering the received request according to predetermined filtering criteria
     comprises a filter engine.
                                                                                             of
     The predetermined filtering criteria is preferably selected from data representative
     any one, or a combination, of the group comprising a mandatory notification, an
                                                                                        a first
15   optional notification, a transaction amount threshold, a geographical position,
     data processing terminal type, a network type, a financial institution identifier, a
     merchant identifier.
     The means for sending the request to the cardholder device preferably comprises any
 20  one, or a combination, selected from the group comprising messaging instructions
     stored and processed by the at least one server, a cellular messaging server, an
      interactive voice response apparatus.
      The means for receiving interrupt data from the second terminal and interrupting
                                                                                   one selected
 25   processing of the electronic transaction comprises a combination of at least
      from the group comprising messaging instructions stored and processed by the at least
      one server, a cellular messaging server and an interactive voice response apparatus,
                                                                                         and a
      respectively receiving the interrupt data from the at least second terminal,
      transaction processing terminal.
 30
      The interrupt data is preferably any one, or a combination, selected from the group
                                                                       personal identification
       comprising a portion of card data, a portion of account data, a

                                                    7
    number, alphanumerical data representative of a user decision, digitized audio data
    representative of a user decision, a predetermined period of time.
    The plurality of network - connected data processing terminals preferably further
 5  includes at least one security terminal operated by a state, official or private security
    organisation.
    The apparatus preferably further includes means to automatically communicate interrupt
     data to the security terminal, whenever interrupt data is received from a second terminal
10   for an electronic transaction. Since the apparatus allows the detection and the
     interruption of any fraudulent use of a card or account data in real-time, the interrupt
     data effectively doubles as fraud reporting data, and this embodiment of the apparatus
     advantageously communicates' the interrupt data as fraud reporting data to relevant
                                                                                               the
     personnel within a sufficiently short time to try and apprehend those responsible for
15   reported transaction.
     The means to automatically communicate data preferably further comprises aggregating
      means, for receiving the interrupt data and generating fraud reporting data
      corresponding to at least one selected from the group comprising a geographical
 20   position, a first data processing terminal type, a financial institution identifier, a
      merchant identifier, image data, audio data and video data, as a function of whether any
      such data is stored at the first data processing terminal and/or at the server in connection
      with the reported transaction.
 25   The aggregating means preferably generates fraud reporting data as a combination of
      some or all of data corresponding to a geographical position, a first data processing
      terminal type, a financial institution identifier, a merchant identifier, image data, audio
      data and/or video data.
 30   The at least one security terminal is preferably selected from the group comprising a
      telephone, a cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager, a personal digital assistant, a
       portable computing device, a desktop computing device, a personal radio, a two-way

                                                    8
    radio, a mobile radio or computing device aboard a land vehicle, aircraft or ship, or a
    combination thereof
    According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
 5  preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network comprising a plurality of network
    connected data processing terminals, including at least one server, the method
     comprising the steps of
             receiving an electronic authorisation request at the server from a first data
     processing terminal, wherein the request is for authorising the processing of an
10   electronic transaction associated with a cardholder's card data or account data;
              filtering the received request according to predetermined filtering criteria;
              identifying at least a second data processing terminal as a cardholder device;
              sending the request to the cardholder device, to notify the cardholder that
     processing of an electronic transaction is proposed, a parameter of which is said
15   cardholder's card data or account data; and
              interrupting processing of the, or any further, electronic transaction with that
     card data or account data.
     The method preferably further comprises the step of allowing processing of the
20   electronic transaction.
     The method preferably further comprises the step of storing a database storing at least,
      for each cardholder, card or account data associated with a network address of at least a
      second data processing terminal.
 25
      The step of identifying preferably further comprises the step of identifying a plurality of
      data processing terminals as respective devices of a same cardholder.
      The step of filtering the received request preferably further comprises the step of
 30   selecting data representative of any one, or a combination, of the group comprising a
      mandatory notification, an optional notification, a transaction amount threshold, a
      geographical position, a first data processing terminal type, a network type, a financial
      institution identifier, a merchant identifier.

                                                    9
    The step of sending the request to the cardholder device preferably further comprises the
    step of selecting any one, or a combination, from the group comprising messaging
    instructions stored and processed by the at least one server, a cellular messaging server,
 5  an interactive voice response apparatus.
    The step of interrupting processing of the electronic transaction preferably further
    comprises the steps of inputting interrupt data at the at least second tenrinal and
    communicating the interrupt data to any one, or a combination, selected from the group
10  comprising messaging instructions stored and processed by the at least one server, a
    cellular messaging, for example SMS of WAP, server and an interactive voice response
    apparatus, respectively.
    The method preferably comprises the further step of automatically communicating
15   interrupt data to a security terminal, whenever interrupt data is received from a second
    terminal for an electronic transaction, wherein the security terinal is operated by a
     state, official or private security organisation.
     The step of automatically communicating interrupt data preferably further comprises the
20   steps of receiving the interrupt data and generating fraud reporting data corresponding
     to at least one selected from the group comprising a geographical position, a first data
     processing terminal type, a financial institution identifier, a merchant identifier, image
      data, audio data and video data, as a function of whether any such data is stored at the
      first data processing terminal and/or at the server in connection with the reported
25   transaction.
      The step of generating fraud reporting data preferably further comprises the step of
      aggregating a combination of some or all of data corresponding to a geographical
      position, a first data processing tenninal type, a financial institution identifier, a
 30   merchant identifier, image data, audio data and/or video data.
      The step of automatically communicating fraud reporting data preferably further
      comprises the step of selecting the recipient security terminal from the group

                                                   10
    comprising a telephone, a cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager, a personal
    digital assistant, a portable computing device, a desktop computing device, a personal
    radio, a two-way radio, a mobile radio or computing device aboard a land vehicle,
    aircraft or ship, or a combination thereof.
 5
    According to still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
    preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network, comprising the steps of
              receiving notification of an electronic transaction request
              replying to the notification with a SMS message containing a codeword and
10   authentication code, and
              automatically blocking a cardholder's payment card for future usage upon
     receipt of the codeword and authentication code.
     According to still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
15   preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network, comprising the steps of
               receiving notification of an electronic transaction request
                                                                                 a codeword and
               replying to the notification with a WAP message containing
      authentication code, and
               automatically blocking a cardholder's payment card for future usage upon
20    receipt of the codeword and authentication code.
      The method further comprises the step of notifying the cardholder about the blocking of
      the card from future usage.
 25   A further aspect of the invention provides a method of preventing electronic transaction
       fraud in a network, comprising the steps of
                contacting a phone number, routing to an interactive voice recognition system,
                                                                                   the code word
                inputting a code word and authentication, by orally recognising
       and authentication using speech recognition without human interaction, or keying in a
 30    selected digit and code combination, and
                blocking the cardholder's payment card for future usage in response to the
                                                                         selected digit and code
       recognised code word and authentication or keyed in
        combination.

                                               11
   According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a set of
   instructions recorded on a carrier which, when processed by a data processing
   apparatus, adapts the apparatus to perform the method of preventing card fraud
 5 substantially according to any of the above recitals.
   The carrier may be selected from the group comprising read - only memory means,
   random access memory means, optical data storage means, solid state data storage
   means, magnetic data storage means, electrical signal, optical signal.
10
   The set of instructions may be selected from the group comprising source code, object
   code, compiled code, partially compiled code, executable code.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
15 The invention will be more clearly understood from the following description of an
   embodiment thereof, given by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 is a card transaction SMS notification system overview according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
20          Figure 2 illustrates the SMS Notification Blocking Method according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 3 illustrates the IVR Speech Recognition Card Blocking Method
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 4 illustrates a card transaction IVR notification system overview
25 according to an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 5 illustrates the IVR Card Blocking Method according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
            Figure 6 illustrates a card transaction WAP notification system overview
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
30          Figure 7 illustrates the WAP Card Blocking Method according to an
    embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 8 shows a list of Terminal ID's according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;

                                                12
           Figure 9 shows a map view of Terminal ID's according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
            Figure 10 illustrates a Fraud Detecting Alerting Service according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
 5          Figure 11 illustrates a set of the different commands according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;
            Figures 12 & 13 illustrate an example of an embodiment of the present invention in
   operation.
            Figure 14 illustrates the incoming E-Mail transaction Spreadsheet according to
10 an embodiment of the present invention; and
            Figure 15 illustrates the cardholder transaction notification report used to report
   back the status of each transaction using an outgoing E-Mail Report plug-in.
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
15  Several features are firstly considered, which are provided herein by way of example
    only and in a non - limitative capacity, and which are capable of implementation in
    alternative embodiments of the present invention. Specific example embodiments are
    considered in relation to the accompanying Figures thereafter.
20  Transaction notifications may be delivered to the cardholder's phone either as a Short
    Message Service (SMS) message, Wireless Access Protocol (WAP) Push or as an
    Interactive Voice Response (IVR) call. Each notification method may utilise and
    integrate with 3PP service providers to deliver notifications to, and receive input data
    from, cardholders. The notification method depends on cardholders' individual settings
25  or the tenant's wide settings in the apparatus. Furthermore, the apparatus may send
    notifications to merchants about any fraudulent transactions, whereby fraudulent orders
    may be cancelled order before the goods have been taken away or despatched. The
    apparatus may integrate with merchant systems via HTTPS. It will be appreciated that
    other data protocols can be used such as HTTP, SOAP, SMTP (E-Mail), File interface,
30  CORBA.
    The apparatus may invoke the cardholder to dial an emergency number to reach an IVR
     application, or to send a SMS to, in order to immediately block a card, whenever the

                                                   13
    cardholder realises a card is lost or compromised, without or before receiving a
    transaction request.
    The apparatus is capable of hosting multiple tenants on a single platform. A tenant can
 5  be financial institution, bank, credit card company, service provider or the like. The
    apparatus is adapted to process transactions from multiple tenants. When the apparatus
    receives an incoming transaction, it identifies the tenant to whom the transaction
    belongs, based on the one of the following inputs:
              Primary Account Number (PAN)
10   -         Sending authentication (username / password combination)
     A PAN is unique globally across all tenants, so this number uniquely identifies the
     owning Tenant. Account numbers or rendered PANs are not unique globally, therefore
     user authentication is required to determine the owning tenant. Each transaction requests
15   received by the apparatus must be owned by a registered tenant, and all transaction
      responses must be returned to the correct originating tenant. The apparatus must impose
      restrictions, to ensure that each tenant can only view, modify or use information relating
      to its Organisation Settings and cardholder information.
20    The apparatus supports multiple languages, thus allows the transaction requests and
      interruptions to be communicated and processed internationally, and also allows each
      tenant to specify that each cardholder shall receive notifications in their language of
      choice. Notifications can be configured and stored in the apparatus in the language(s)
                                                                                      their own
      required by the tenant. The apparatus can also allow each tenant to include
 25    elements of corporate identity and/or branding, such as image files representing logos
       and the like, within notifications.
       Each tenant must be defined in the apparatus and certain properties must be configured
                                                                                 applying Filter
       per tenant. The apparatus requires a card profile to be defined when
 30    Engine (FE) Notification Rules transactions (e.g. transaction threshold rules) and in the
       Notification Server when notifying a transaction. A card profile can be defined per
       tenant and/or per cardholder. Although a card profile is needed by the apparatus, not

                                                    14
                                                                                           profile is
    every cardholder needs an individual profile in the apparatus. If an individual
    not found, the system can use an Organisation Profile. A card profile could be:
             A card profile for an individual cardholder.
 5  -         A card profile re-used by multiple cardholders in the same organisation/ Tenant.
    The override profile and default profiles are features, which use organisation profiles to
    notify cardholders. The override profile feature allows a tenant to supply an organisation
                                                                                   If no individual
    profile to be used as part of the transaction information received.
10   profile can be found, then the override profile is used.
     The default profile is used when no profile can be found for the individual or override
     profile. It is a fall-back profile which a tenant can use to ensure that all supplied
                                                                                               in the
     transactions are notified. The default profile must be configured for the tenant
                                                                               used.
15   apparatus. If no default profile is configured, then this feature is not
     The apparatus stores the following information for each card profile, in a database:
                             Parameter                   Mandatory /        Parameter Format
                                                           Optional
             Account Identifier                           Mandatory       Alphanumeric
             Namespace                                    Mandatory       Integer
             Owning Organisation                          Mandatory       Integer
             Cardholder First Name                         Optional       Alphanumeric
             Cardholder Surname                            Optional       Alphanumeric
             Card Type                                    Mandatory       Alphanumeric
             Currency                                     Mandatory       Decimal / Currency
             Cardholders Phone Number                     Mandatory       Alphanumeric
             Prompt Group D                               Mandatory       Integer
             Notification Action (Always Send, Send       Mandatory       Integer
             When Pass Rules, Never Send)         _
             Notification Method (Text Message             Mandatory       Integer
             (SMS), Phone Call (IVR), WAP Push)
             Transaction Value Notification Threshold       Optional       Decimal/currency
             Custom Field 1                                 Optional      Alphanumeric
             Custom Field n                            |    Optional       Al hanumeric
                                                                                     each cardholder.
      The custom fields allow tenants to store additional information for
                                                                                      the apparatus.
 20   This information can be used in several ways by customised plug-ins of
                                                                                namespace. A shared
       If the Account Identifier is a PAN, then the namespace is a shared
                                                                            possibility to render the
       namespace is shared among all tenants. The system has the

                                                15
    PAN to ensure that PCI DSS Compliance is met. If the Account Identifier is an account
    number, then the namespace is specific to that tenant. A tenant - specific namespace is
    only used by that tenant. The last 4 digits of the Account Identifier are used in
    notifications outgoing to the cardholder. The full Account Identifier is never be used in
 5  outgoing notifications, for security purposes.
    The Prompt group ID determines which language/dialect to use for this profile.
    The Namespace identifies whether the Account Identifier of the card profile is unique
10  globally, or tenant - specific. The apparatus is adapted to process transaction requests
    for payment cards, which are unique, regardless of tenant and issuing country. The
    apparatus is also adapted to process transaction requests for payment cards or account
    numbers, which are only unique to a specific tenant. The combination of namespace
    value and Account Identifier ensure unique identification of the card profile.
15
    Credit card numbers which are guaranteed to be unique (e.g. the full PAN), are assigned
    a shared namespace within the system (i.e. a namespace will is common to all credit
    cards). Account numbers, which are only unique to a particular tenant, are assigned a
    tenant - specific namespace. Namespaces are system - wide in nature. A shared
20  namespace takes the value of zero. Tenant - specific namespaces take the Organisation
    ID of the sending tenant as the namespace (e.g. tenant with Organisation ID 51 uses the
    namespace 51).
    Notifications issued from the apparatus are fully customisable and can be processed to
25   include relevant look and feel elements, such as image files, according to tenant
     requirements: any tenant integrating the apparatus can have notifications requests issued
     to their cardholders, which appear to be sent from the tenant rather than from the
     apparatus itself.
 30  The apparatus can be configured to perform a default notification method per tenant.
     The apparatus supports alternative notification methods, in case of a failure to deliver a
     notification using the default notification method. If the apparatus cannot deliver the
     notification to a cardholder device for any reason, the system determines another

                                                  16
    cardholder device to send the notification to (if any further device is registered in the
    database) and may also query the card organisation (tenant) about alternative contact
    methods for the cardholder, to ensure that the cardholder is notified.
 5  The method used to deliver the notification to the cardholder can be configured in a
    prioritised order. For a specific tenant or a specific cardholder, the apparatus can be
    configured to send the notification using different notification methods, depending on
    the different phone numbers, network addresses, email addresses and the like available
    for the cardholder, in case a number is unavailable or a response from the cardholder is
10  not received within a configurable time.
     Any given cardholder could for example make a mobile phone number, home phone
     number and an office phone number available to the apparatus. If a SMS notification is
     sent to the cardholder's mobile number, but no reply is received from the cardholder
15   within a predetermined and configurable period of time, the notification will be
     attempted via an alternative notification method, e.g. by triggering an IVR call to the
     cardholder's home or office phone number. This feature ensures that the notification is
     delivered.
 20  The notifications contains information about the value of the transaction, the location of
     the transaction and an option to block, and optionally also to allow, the transaction. It
     will be appreciated that the notification message may take the form of any type of
     electronic communication, for example electronic mail. The notification may contain a
     codeword, e.g. "block" or "allow", and an authentication number which, together with
 25  the cardholder's network address (e.g. mobile phone number), makes it possible to
      interrupt the transaction, block the card or allow the transaction to be processed.
      The authentication code is generated by apparatus, in such a way as to link it with the
      cardholder's network address (e.g. phone number), which is itself is linked with the
 30   transaction.
      The apparatus can process both positive and negative responses from the cardholder.
                                                                                            or it
      The apparatus can be configured and integrated to block the transaction (real-time)

                                               17
   can be configured to block the card for future usage, thereby preventing further card
   fraud. By allowing the transaction, the cardholder confirms that the transaction is
   legitimate.
 5 An example of a SMS notification received by the cardholder at the time of a
   transaction, with the apparatus according to the present invention, could for instance
   read; "E350 will be debited from your <cardtype> at <name of terminal>, <name of
   location>. Reply with "block 1234" or call <phone number> if this debit should not
   occur. Reply with "allow 1234" if the transaction is legitimate".
10
   The cardholder has the following options:
        1. Reply to the SMS message with the codeword, e.g. "block" and the
           authentication number, e.g. "1234". The apparatus will receive this message and
           forward the blocking request to the card organisation's card system, which will
15         in turn block the card for future usage. The cardholder will then receive a
           confirmation that the card is blocked for future usage.
        2. Reply to the SMS message with the codeword, e.g. "allow" and the
            authentication number, e.g. "1234". The apparatus will receive this message and
            forward the allowing request to the card organisation's card system.
20      3. Call the <phone number> received in the notification. When calling this number,
            the call will be routed to an IVR, which will handle the blocking request
            automatically using speech recognition. The cardholder will be asked by the IVR
            to say the codeword and the authentication number. The IVR will then reply to
            the apparatus with the appropriate interrupt data, which the apparatus will
25          subsequently forward as a blocking request to the card organisation's card
            system, and which will in turn block the card for future usage. If the IVR fails to
            understand the cardholder, the call will be routed to a customer care person in
            the card organisation.
30  An example of an IVR notification to the cardholder after a transaction has taken place,
    according to the present invention could be that the system makes an IVR call to the
    cardholder's phone number. The Phone number can be provisioned in the system for
    that cardholder or it can be present in the incoming transaction. The transaction comes

                                                  18
    in to the system and the system verifies that a notification should be sent. The
    cardholder will receive a call from the IVR application which plays a series of pre
    recorded audio files notifying the cardholder of the transaction that has occurred and
    explaining the various options to the cardholder. The cardholder has the option to ignore
 5  the call and not answer, in which the system will register that the notification could not
    be delivered. The cardholder could answer the call, listen to the announcements, but
    ignore the IVR announcements and disconnect the call, if the transaction is a valid and
    legitimate transaction.
10  Example announcements could for example include: "(option A) To confirm that the
     transactionis a valid transactionplease select digit I on your handset now, or (option
    B) to flag that the transactionis an invalid transactionandyou wish to block your card,
    please select digit 9 on you handset now"
15   If option A is chosen, the IVR application can request an access code from the
     cardholder for authentication. Upon successful authentication the call is ended and the
     system does not act upon the transaction.
     If option B is chosen, the IVR application can request an access code from the
20   cardholder for authentication (speech recognition or validation questions can also be
     used). Upon successful authentication the system will receive the block request from the
     IVR (using the IVR interface) and will process the request. The card transaction is
      obtained from the transaction table for this mobile number.
25   Based on the mobile number received sent from the IVR and the verification code, the
      system will send a request to the card organisation's. card system to block the
      transaction. The Card organisation's card system blocks the cardholder's card. An
      outgoing response SMS message is constructed in the incoming Messaging server
      (IMS) and is forwarded for delivery to the cardholder (Alternatively, the system can
 30   interface with IVR application). The system delivers the response message to the
      cardholder. The cardholder receives the response SMS message with the confirmation
      that the transaction was blocked and the card has been blocked (Alternatively, the IVR

                                                    19
    application to play an announcement confirming that the transaction was blocked and
    the card has been blocked).
    The notification can also be delivered to the cardholder as a WAP Push (Service
  5 Indication) notification according to another aspect of the invention. Again, the filter
    engine component handles all card transactions and determines whether a notification
    should be sent to the cardholder or not. If the notification is to be sent, the system will
    initiate the sending of a WAP Push, with a URL link, to the cardholder's mobile phone
    number. The URL link will direct to a WAP page, for the cardholder's financial
10  institution, where the cardholder can view the transaction and is presented with an
    option to confirm the transaction is valid or invalid and to block the card by selecting
     "accept" or "block" buttons. The cardholder can receive WAP delivery reports for the
    response answer message to the WAP Push notification. The system can support
     multiple WAP Push notifications and WAP pages supporting multiple languages. The
 15  cardholder can receive the WAP Push notifications and WAP pages in a preferred
     language.
     Transaction notifications regardless of which notification method is used will expire
     after a configurable duration. This will occur when a cardholder does not respond, or is
20   unable to respond to the notification. The expiry countdown starts from the time that a
     transaction is received in the system. If after the expiry time, there is still no answer,
     then it is unlikely the cardholder will answer. The system can report this situation back
     to the owning Tenant. The owning Tenant can then decide how they wish to proceed
      (e.g. if they wish to try contacting the cardholder directly). The system will expire
 25   transactions for which an answer has not been received after a configurable period of
      time. Each Tenant shall be able to specify individual expiry times. A different expiry
      time must be configurable per notification method. When a transaction is expired, the
      notification state and the expiry time must be updated. Expired notifications will be
      reported the external Tenant's system.
 30
      If a notification fails to be delivered, the system will retry to send the notification again.
      If a notification cannot be delivered to a cardholder, the system will try to deliver the
      notification again. The notification methods, SMS, IVR and WAP will provide the

                                                20
   system with information, indicating why the notification could not be delivered, e.g.
   cardholder busy, no answer if IVR was used. The system will then be notified about this
   and will try to deliver the notification again at a later stage using the same notification
   method. If one notification method fails multiple times, the system will recognise this
 5 and deliver the notification using a different method, if applicable.
   A further aspect of the invention provides a system and method of contacting an
   emergency phone number in order to block a card in the event that the cardholder
   discovers a card stolen. There are two options to block a card, either by calling an
10 emergency number to be routed to an IVR, which will handle the blocking request
   automatically using speech recognition, or by sending a SMS.
   When calling the emergency number, the cardholder will be asked by the IVR to say the
   codeword, card number, and a personal PIN number. The IVR will then notify the
15 system with the action to block the card which will then forward the request to the card
   organisation's card system, which will in turn block the card for future usage. If the
   IVR fails to understand the cardholder, the call will be routed to a customer care person
   in the card organisation.
20 When sending a SMS to block the card, the cardholder will include a codeword, card
   number and personalised PIN.
   There is also provided a computer program comprising program instructions for causing
   a computer program to carry out the above method that may be embodied on a record
25 medium, carrier signal or read-only memory.
   The card organisation's card system will integrate to the card organisation system using
   HTTP POST, HTTPS POST, SMPT, XML, or SOAP (other interfaces can also be
   supported). The system will receive a HTTP POST, HTTPS POST, SMPT, XML, or
30 SOAP (or the protocol used) request from each card transaction.
   The invention can also be integrated to an external system using the E-Mail Transaction
   Plug-in (SMTP). This interface allows the tenant to email a batch of card transactions to

                                               21
   the system. The Email Transaction plug-in will be able to extract the transactions and
   input them into system. The system will then notify the cardholders.
   The incoming E-mail will contain one or more electronic spreadsheet files, for example
 5 a Microsoft excel spread sheet or CSV file, containing the relevant information about
   the transactions. Each Microsoft Excel spreadsheet file can contain multiple transactions
   to be notified. Each row in the excel spreadsheet will represent a single transaction. The
   Email Transaction Plug-in parses the Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, reading up and
   processing each transaction row.
10
   The Email Transaction plug-in assumes that excel file will have the rendered PAN, or
   any account identifier, in the Account Identifier column. The system has the possibility
   to render the PAN to ensure PCI DSS compliance. As a rendered PAN will not have a
   card profile in the system, the E-Mail plug-in will need to supply an override profile.
15 Override profiles are used when no individual card profile can be found. Based on
   which telephone number is populated in the Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet (mobile, home
   or office) a different override profile is chosen.    For example if mobile number is
   populated then a profile that notifies using SMS will be chosen. For home number and
   office number, an IVR profile could be chosen. These profiles must have been defined
20 for the namespace specific to that tenant. Once an override profile has been assigned the
   transaction will be forwarded into the system and the response code obtained. This
   response code will then be populated in the received transaction excel file. After all
   transactions in an email have been processed, then each received transaction excel file
   (updated with response codes) is populated in a reply E-Mail. The E-Mail is the sent
25 back to the email address that sent the transactions. One mandatory element of the
   spreadsheet is the rendered PAN, the last four digits of which are used in the
   notification sent to the cardholder.
   Override profiles are stored in the organisations specific namespace. So to find the
   profile, the system needs to know the sending organisation. The username and
30 password in the excel file provides security and also identifies the sending tenant.
   Therefore the username and password are also mandatory fields in the spreadsheet.

                                               22
   The invention also allows to be used as fraud notification system. External systems
   performing fraud detection or on-line phishing analysis can be integrated to the system
   and allow cardholders to be notified via the invention's supported notifications methods.
   External systems can be integrated using system's E-Mail Transaction Pltg-in to receive
 5 potential fraudulent transactions and notify the cardholders/end users using the
   information received in the incoming transaction files. In this configuration, there is
   limited provisioning required in the system.
   The system can be integrated to merchants via an external system in order to notify
10 cardholders about transactions that have occurred at various merchants. The system
   generates Call Data Records (CDR) for all notifications issued by the system. These
   CDR's allows the system to charge merchants for the notifications and thereby avoid
   any cost for the cardholder or card organisation.
15 The system allows for integration to multiple systems within the same financial
   organisation (tenant). The system can integrate to any system within an organisation
   using the available and exposed interfaces. When integrating an external system to the
   invention a parameter called "Source System ID" is set uniquely per system. When a
   card transaction is received the invention, the "Source System ID" will identify what
20 external system the transaction originated from. For example, the system could be a
   credit card system, ATM system, Laser Card System, etc, and the "Source System ID"
   would be unique per system. This will allow the invention to distinguish between what
   system it received the transaction from, and also ensure that the response to the correct
   system. The invention is also flexible enough to send the response to a different external
25 system than the originating system if required. This will allow a transaction originating
   from the for example a Credit Card system that is marked as fraudulent by the
   cardholder to send the cardholder's response back to he Financial Institution's Fraud
   System instead of back to the Credit Card System. Setting the "Destination System ID"
   parameter controls the response destination. The Destination System ID" can be set
30 based on different events that occur in the invention. Depending on different events, or
   in this case the response from the cardholder, e.g. a blocked transaction will be sent to
   the financial institution's fraud system, while a valid transaction will be sent back to the
   originating system. Basically the call flow is event driven and can be configured within

                                                 23
   the system by changing the Destination Source ID with the system for certain event
   criteria.
   The system will be able to generate periodic reports to individual tenants of the system.
 5 Periodic reports will include all transactions which have changed state since the last
   report was generated for that tenant. Change of transaction state could for example be
   when a delivery report is received, or a cardholder answers. Transactions to be reported
   will be read up and sent to the event reporting component. Reports will be generated on
   a configurable periodic basis. All organisations with transactions that have changed
10 state since the last periodic report shall receive a report. A report will be generated on a
   per Tenant basis i.e. one report to each Tenant with transactions to be reported. Reports
   are stored securely and separate for each tenant and will only contain the transactions
   for that organisation. No Tenant is able to see the transaction infonnation for another
   organisation. Notifications will be considered to have changed state when the following
15 states occur:
   -        Successful notification (successful delivery of notification)
   -        Failed notification (failed delivery of notification)
   -        Positive customer answer
   -        Failed customer answer
20 -        Transaction Expired
   Some events require real-time reporting to the owning Tenant. Rather than wait for the
   next reporting period, the system can report individual events to the Tenant as they
   happen. Events could be when a notification was delivered, cardholder answer received
25 etc. How the events are reported depends on the organisations event settings. Different
   events can be reported to the same Tenant in different ways. For example, Tenant 1
   wants to receive positive answers as emailed excel files, but negative answers should be
   sent as HTTPS Post, or other interfaces, to their fraud systems. The event reporting
   component supports this functionality.
30
   This component can report individual events or groups of events (bulk report). The
   periodic reporting component uses this component to bulk report a group of events. It

                                               24
   shall be possible to report individual events to the Tenant. It shall be possible to report
   on the following event types:
   -       Successful notification
   -       Failed notification
 5         Positive cardholder answer
   -       Positive cardholder answer for an expired Verification Code
   -       Negative cardholder answer
   -       Negative cardholder answer for an expired Verification Code
   -       Expired transaction
10 -       Bulk report
   Depending on the event it shall be possible to report to different systems for the same
   tenant. Each system may use its own plug-in. The system supports the following
   reporting methods.
15 -       Reporting via HTTPS post
   -       Reporting via Email
   Typically tenants have multiple systems which are used for card processing.             For
   example, it is usual to have separate systems for processing credit cards and debit cards.
20 The system supports an additional parameter in the submitted transaction called the
   Originating System ID. The originating system ID is used by the Tenant to identify
   which of its systems originated the transaction (i.e. credit card or debit card system).
   When generating event reports back to the Tenant, the combination of the event and the
   originating system ID are used to determine where the event report should be sent.
25
   How to report and what system to report to, shall be decided from the following
   information:
   -       Owning Tenant
   -       Originating system ID (received in the incoming transaction)
30 -       The event type
   If the originating system ID parameter is not provided in the incoming transaction
   information then the "default" originating system ID will be used.

                                                25
   A "default" Originating System ID will exist for each tenant. If the system can not
   determine how to report based on the Originating System ID in the original transaction,
   then the "default" settings for that tenant will be used.
 5
   Bulk reporting is when the system wants to report a group of events all at once. As for
   individual event reporting, where/how to send the report depends on the originating
   system ID and the event type. For Bulk reporting the system will use the "Bulk Report"
   event type and the "default" originating system ID to decide the plug-in and address to
10 use. For Bulk reports the "default" originating system ID and the bulk report event type
   will be used. The Event Reporting component shall be flexible in design allowing
   addition of new events and originating systems while service is live.
   Reports can be delivered to the tenants organisation either using an outgoing HTTPS
15 Report Plug-in or and outgoing E-Mail reporting plug-in. The Outgoing ITTPS
   Reporting Plug-in shall report the following information:
   -       Account Identifier
   -       Phone number used to notify the cardholder.
   -       Current date time
20         Org Transaction ID
   -       System Organisation ID
   -       Answer i.e. positive or negative
   The E-Mail report plug-in will deliver the reports in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, or
25 other suitable spreadsheet format, via E-Mail to the receiving organisation, and contains
   the following information:
   -       Account Identifier (Card Number / Account Number / Rendered PAN / Full
   PAN (not rendered). Whichever was received in the original transaction request)
   -       Transaction Value
30 -       Number Notified
   -       Notification Method
   -       Notification State
   -       Notification Time

                                                 26
   -       Delivery Time
   -       Answer Time
   -       Expiry Time
   -       Custom Field 1
 5 -       Custom Field 2
   -       Custom Field 3
   -       Custom Field 4
   -       Custom Field 5
   -       Custom Field 6
10 -       Custom Field 7
   -       Custom Field 8
   -       Custom Field 9
   -       Custom Field 10
   The email address to which the report is to be sent shall be obtained from data
15 provisioned in the system. The Number Notified field must contain the cardholder's
   number to which the notification was sent. The Notification State column entries must
   use the following terminology:
   -       Successful notification
   -       Failed notification
20 -       Positive customer answer
   -       Failed customer answer
   -       Expired
   If the number of events to be reported is greater than can be contained in one excel file,
   then multiple excel files shall be attached to the report email.
25

                                                 27
   All transactions passing through the system is recorded by the system. A Tool called
   Transaction Trace Tool is available for the tenants to trace any transaction belonging to
   their organisation. The Transaction Trace Tool allows the tenant's customer care
   organisation to search any old transactions that has been passed though the system. All
 5 details recorded for the transaction can be viewed using the Transaction Trace Tool
   With reference to Figure 1 now, an overview of a card transaction SMS notification
   apparatus is illustrated according to a first embodiment of the present invention.
10 An environment is shown, which comprises a plurality of network - connected data
   processing terminals, including a transaction terminal, such as a point-of-sale terminal
   or an ATM, a server and several further data processing terminals.
   The apparatus comprises a logical component called the filter engine, which receives
15 electronic authorisation requests from transaction terminals, wherein the request is for
   authorising the processing of an electronic transaction associated with a cardholder's
   card or account data. The filter engine also determines whether an electronic transaction
   notification should be sent to the cardholder or not. If an electronic transaction
   notification should be sent, the filter engine forwards the request to a messaging server
20 that will handle the sending of the SMS notification to the cardholder's mobile (or
   cellular) phone number. The mobile number for all cardholders subscribing to this
   service is contained within the system.
   The flow of the invention illustrated in Figure 1 is as follows:
25     1. Any card transaction, whether it is an ATM withdrawal, a purchase in a shop
            using a card or an internet purchase using -a card, is forwarded to the card
            organisation's card system.
       2. The card organisation's card system will integrate to the card organisation
            system using HTTP POST, HTTPS POST, XML, or SOAP (other interfaces can
30          also be supported). The system will receive a HTTP POST, HTTPS POST,
            XML, or SOAP (or the protocol used) request from each card transaction. The
           request will contain one or more of the following information: Card number,

                                                28
          Transaction timestamp, Transaction ID (generated by card organisation),
          Transaction value, Terminal ID.
      3. The request is received in the Filter Engine and will be validated and check
          against a set off rules to determine if a message should be sent out to the
 5        cardholder or not. The Filter Engine will retrieve the cardholder's mobile
          number and filter rules from the Cardholder Directory server. The cardholder's
          mobile number has already been provisioned in the system.
      4. If an SMS notification should be sent out for the cardholder, the Messaging
          Server will update the Transaction Table.
10    5. A request will then be sent to the Messaging Server.
      6. The Messaging Server will interface with the Mobile Network through an SMS
          Provider or a Mobile Operator to send out the SMS Notification to the
          cardholder's mobile number.
      7.   On successful notification delivery, the Transaction Table will be updated
15        again.
   The cardholder has the following options:
      1. Ignore the notification, if the transaction is a valid and legitimate transaction.
      2. Reply to the SMS message with the codeword, e.g. "allow" and the
20        authentication number, e.g. "1234" if the transaction is a valid and legitimate
          transaction. The system will receive the message allowing the transaction and
          forward the information to the card organisation's card system. The card is then
          still valid and can be used in the future.
      3. Reply to the SMS message with the codeword, e.g. "block" and the
25        authentication number, e.g. "1234". The system in question will receive this
          message and forward the blocking request to the card organisation's card system
          that will in turn block the card for future usage. The cardholder will then receive
          a confirmation that the card is blocked for future usage.
      4. Call the <phone number> received in the notification (instead of the actual
30        phone number being listed in the notification, the message could state that the
          cardholder should call the financial institution's customer care. It could be that
          the number would not be presented to prevent spoofing). When calling this
          number, the call will be routed to an IVR which will handle the blocking request

                                                29
            automatically. The cardholder will be asked by the IVR to say the codeword and
            the authentication number or to key in a selected digit and code combination.
            The IVR will then reply to the system with the appropriate action which will
            then forward the request to the card organisation's card system, which will in
 5          turn block the card for future usage. If the IVR fails to understand the
            cardholder, the call will be routed to a customer care person in the card
            organisation.
   Both blocking methods (option 2 and 3 above) are now explained in further detail.
10
   Referring now to the SMS Notification Blocking Method and with reference to Figure
   2. If the cardholder chose to block the card for future usage by replying to the SMS with
   the code word and the authentication number, the SMS will be routed back to the
   system. The system will handle the incoming request in the Messaging Engine, where it
15 will process the request, and check that authentication number and mobile number
   matches the records in the system. If the request is valid, a card blocking request will be
   sent to the card organisation's card system.
   The request will contain the card number, the original transaction ID and an action to
20 block the card immediately. The card organisation will immediately block the card and
   prevent it for future usage.
   The blocking flow is illustrated in Figure 2 is as follows:
25      1. Cardholder sends SMS message with code word and authentication to the
            system.
       2. The Incoming Messaging Server in the system receives the SMS notification.
       3. The card transaction is obtained from the transaction table for this PIN code and
            mobile number.
30     4. The Card organisation's card system is notified of the card blocking event.
       5. The Card organisation's card system blocks the cardholder's card.
       6. The Card Blocking event is recorded in the Card Blocking Table.

                                                30
       7. An outgoing response SMS message is constructed in the incoming Messaging
            server and is forwarded to the outgoing Messaging Server for delivery to the
            cardholder.
       8. The Outgoing Messaging Server delivers the response message to the
 5          cardholder.
       9. The cardholder receives the response SMS message with the confirmation that
           the card has been blocked.
       10. The response SMS message is updated in the Transaction table.
   Referring now to Figure 3 illustrates the IVR Speech Recognition Card Blocking
10 Method according to another aspect of the invention. If the cardholder chose to block
   the card by calling the phone number that was given in the SMS notification, the
   cardholder's call will be routed to an Interactive Voice Response (IVR). The cardholder
   must make the call from the mobile phone that is registered in the system. The IVR will
   execute an application that is linked with the number dialed by the cardholder, referred
15 to as the DNIS (Dialed Number Identification Service).
   The general flow shown in Figure 3 is as follows:
       1. Cardholder dials the phone number given in the SMS transaction notification
           from the cardholder's mobile phone (the same as the SMS notification was
20         received on).
       2. The phone number is routed to an IVR and a connection between the cardholder
           and the IVR is established.
       3. The cardholder interacts with IVR to obtain the required information. The IVR
           application will have pre-recorded audio files explaining the various options to
25         the cardholder. The cardholder will be given the following options:
           A. "Do you wish to speak to a customer care staff of the card organisation, say
            1"
30         B. "Do you wish to block your card, say 2"

                                           31
     C. "Do you wish to allow the transaction ?"
        If option A is chosen, the cardholder is routed to customer care staff within
        the card organisation. The customer care staff will then go through standard
  5     security questions associated with blocking a card.
        If option B is chosen, using speech recognition, the IVR will request the
        cardholder to state his or her first name and sir name. The IVR will request
        confirmation if the name is correct. The IVR will the request the codeword
10      and the authentication number that was in the SMS notification.
        If the IVR understands the cardholder's voice (it will ask for confirmation
        after each entry), the system will generate a request to be sent to the IVR
        Card Blocking System (the system in question). The request will contain the
15      following information: Cardholder's first name, Cardholder's sir name,
        Cardholder's Mobile number (obtained from the call), The codeword (e.g.
        block), The authentication number (e.g. 1234), Transaction number used in
        the IVR.
    D. The system will receive the block request from the IVR in the Incoming
20      Messaging Server (using the IVR interface) and will process the request.
    E. The Incoming Messaging Server will update the Transaction Table, but also
        retrieve the authentication number relevant for this transaction.
    F. Based on the mobile number sent from the IVR, the Incoming Messaging
        Server will request the cardholder's name from the Cardholder Directory
25      Server, and compare the name from the Cardholder Directory Server and the
        one received in the IVR block request, if a match, the Incoming Messaging
        Server will compare the authentication number received from the IVR
        request to the one stored in the Transaction Table (all data is encrypted, and
        a key is required to retrieve this information).
30  0. If the authentication numbers matches, the Incoming Messaging Server will
        send a request to the card organisation's card system to block the message.
    H. The Card organisation's card system blocks the cardholder's card.
    I. The Card Blocking event is recorded in the Card Blocking Table.

                                                 32
           J. An outgoing response SMS message is constructed in the incoming
               Messaging server and is forwarded to the outgoing Messaging Server for
               delivery to the cardholder.
           K. The Outgoing Messaging Server delivers the response message to the
 5             cardholder.
           L. The cardholder receives the response SMS message with the confirmation
               that the card has been blocked.
           M. The response SMS message is updated in the Transaction table.
   Referring now to Figure 4 illustrates the IVR notification according to another aspect of
10 the invention. Again, the filter engine component handles all card transactions and
   determines whether a notification- should be sent to the cardholder or not. If the
   notification is to be sent, the filter engine will forward the request to a messaging server
   that will initiate the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) to make an outgoing call to the
   cardholder's mobile or fixed line phone number. The IVR can play the announcements
15 in the cardholder's preferred language.
   The IVR application will return a delivery report to the system confirming a successful
   outgoing call to the cardholder. If the outgoing call fails to connect with the cardholder,
   the system can send a notification by an alternative method such as SMS or WAP Push.
    The cardholder will be played a series of announcements informing the cardholder of
20 the transaction and offering the cardholder the option to confirm the transaction is valid
   or invalid and to block the card by number of alternative methods. The IVR application
   can provide the following alternative methods for responding to the notification:
        a) The cardholder can respond by selecting a configurable number/digit key to
           confirm the transaction is valid or invalid and to block the card. If the cardholder
25         does not provide any input into the IVR within a defined time, the call can be
           routed to the customer care of the cardholder's tenant. Furthermore, it is possible
           for the cardholder to press a configurable number/digit or key on the phone to be
           transferred to the customer care of the Tenant.
        b) The IVR can use voice recognition software to authenticate the cardholder based
30         on previous authenticated calls to the cardholder. The IVR application will then

                                                 33
          ask the cardholder to respond to the notification by answering to the options to
          confirm the transaction is valid or invalid and to block the card.
      c) Furthermore, the IVR can authenticate the cardholder based on information
          stored in the system or available in the IVR by asking the cardholder to answer a
 5        series of validation questions e.g. asking the cardholders name, date of birth etc.
   The general flow shown in Figure 4 is as follows:
      1. Any card transaction, whether it is an ATM withdrawal, a purchase in a shop
          using a card or an internet purchase using a card, is forwarded to the card
10        organisation's card system.
      2. The card organisation's card system will integrate to the card organisation
          system using HTTP POST (although other interfaces can also be supported such
          as HTTPS POST, SMTP (E-Mail), Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet, SOAP, etc).
          The system will receive a HTTP POST request from each card transaction. The
15        request will contain one or more of the following information: Card number,
          Account Number, Transaction timestamp, Transaction ID (generated by card
          organisation), Transadtion value, Terminal ID, Acquirer ID (ID of financial
          institution).
      3. The request is received in the Filter Engine and will be validated and checked
20        against a set off rules to determine if a message should be sent out to the
          cardholder or not. The Filter Engine will retrieve the cardholder's mobile
          number and apply the filter rules for the cardholder stored in the Filter Engine
           (or the filter rules defined for the default profile used). The cardholder's mobile
          number has already been provisioned in the system, or it coming in to the system
25         in the incoming transaction.
      4. If an IVR outgoing call should be made to the cardholder, the Notification
           Server will update the Transaction Table.
       5. A request will then be sent to the Messaging Server.
       6. The Messaging Server will interface with the IVR to make an outgoing call to
30         the cardholder's mobile number.
       7. a. On successful outgoing call connection, a delivery report will sent from the
           IVR application to the system reporting the successful connection, and the
           Transaction            Table          will         be         updated         again.

                                               34
          b. If the outgoing call connection is not successful (i.e. cardholder not
          unreachable), then the IVR application will send a delivery report to the system
          informing of the unsuccessful connection, and the system can retry the
          notification using an alternative method (e.g. using SMS or WAP, etc)
 5    8. The cardholder has three options:
          1. Ignore the IVR announcements and disconnect the call, if the transaction is a
              valid and legitimate transaction. The system will not act upon the
              transaction.
          2. Upon listening to the announcements informing of the transaction and the
10            available options, the cardholder can select a configurable number/digit key
              confirming the transaction as a valid transaction. The system will not act
              upon the transaction.
          3. Upon listening to the announcements informing of the transaction and the
              available options, the cardholder can select a configurable number/digit key
15            flagging the transaction as an invalid transaction. The system in question will
              receive this message from the IVR and forward the blocking request to the
              card organisation's card system that will in turn block the transaction and
              block the card for future usage. The cardholder will then receive a
              confirmation that the transaction is blocked and the card is blocked for future
20            usage.
   The blocking method (option 3 above) is now explained in further detail.
   The general flow shown in Figure 5 is as follows:
25    1. Cardholder receives a call from the IVR application which plays a series of pre
          recorded audio files notifying the cardholder of the transaction that has occurred
           and explaining the various options to the cardholder.
      2. The        cardholder      will     be     given      the     following     options:
30         A. "To confirm that the transaction is a valid transaction please select digit 1 on
           your                                 handset                                  now"
           B. "To flag that the transaction is an invalid transaction and you wish to block

                                               35
           your     card,   please     select    digit   9    on     you    handset    now"
           If option A is chosen, the IVR application can request an access code from the
           cardholder for authentication. Upon successful authentication the call is ended
 5         and      the    system       does     not    act     upon      the    transaction.
       3. If option B is chosen, the IVR application can request an access code from the
           cardholder for authentication (speech recognition or validation questions can
           also be used). Upon successful authentication the system will receive the block
10         request from the IVR in the Incoming Messaging Server (using the IVR
           interface) and will process the request.
       4. The card transaction is obtained from the transaction table for this mobile
           number. The Incoming Messaging Server will update the Transaction Table.
       5. Based on the mobile number sent from the IVR and the verification code, the
15         Incoming Messaging Server will send a request to the card organisation's card
           system to block the transaction.
       6. The Card organisation's card system blocks the cardholder's card.
       7. The Card Blocking event is recorded in the Card Blocking Table.
       8. An outgoing response SMS message is constructed in the incoming Messaging
20         server and is forwarded to the outgoing Messaging Server for delivery to the
           cardholder (Alternatively, the system can interface with IVR application).
       9. The Outgoing Messaging Server delivers the response message to the
           cardholder.
       10. The cardholder receives the response SMS message with the confirmation that
25         the transaction was blocked and the card has been blocked (Alternatively, the
           IVR application to play an announcement confirming that the transaction was
           blocked and the card has been blocked).
       11. The response SMS (IVR) message is updated in the Transaction table.
   Referring now to Figure 6 illustrates the WAP Push (Service Indication) notification
30 according to another aspect of the invention. Again, the filter engine component handles
   all card transactions and determines whether a notification should be sent to the
   cardholder or not. If the notification is to be sent, the filter engine will forward the

                                                36
   request to a messaging server that will initiate the sending of a WAP Push, with a URL
   link, to the cardholder's mobile phone number. The WAP gateway will return a delivery
   report to the system confirming a successful delivery of the WAP Push notification to
   the cardholder. If the WAP Push notification fails to be delivered to the cardholder, the
 5 system can send a notification by an alternative method such as SMS or IVR. The URL
   link will direct to a WAP page, for the cardholder's financial institution, where the
   cardholder can view the transaction and is presented with an option to confirm the
   transaction is valid or invalid and to block the card by selecting "accept" or "block"
   buttons. The cardholder can receive WAP delivery reports for the response answer
10 message to the WAP Push notification. The system can support multiple WAP Push
   notifications and WAP pages supporting multiple languages. The cardholder can receive
   the WAP Push notifications and WAP pages in a preferred language.
   The general flow shown in Figure 6 is as follows:
15     1. Any card transaction, whether it is an ATM withdrawal, a purchase in a shop
           using a card or an internet purchase using a card, is forwarded to the card
            organisation's card system.
       2. The card organisation's card system will integrate to the card organisation
            system using HTTP POST (although other interfaces can also be supported such
20          as HTTPS POST, SMTP (E-Mail), Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet, SOAP, etc).
            The system will receive a HTTP POST request from each card transaction. The
           request will contain one or more of the following information: Card number,
            Account Number, Transaction timestamp, Transaction ID (generated by card
            organisation), Transaction value, Terminal ID, Acquirer ID (ID of financial
25          institution).
       3. The request is received in the Filter Engine and will be validated and checked
            against a set off rules to determine if a message should be sent out to the
            cardholder or not. The Filter Engine will retrieve the cardholder's mobile
            number and apply the filter rules for the cardholder (or the filter rules defined for
30          the default profile used) stored in the Filter Engine. The cardholder's mobile
            number has already been provisioned in the system, or it coming in to the system
            in the incoming transaction.

                                                37
      4. If a WAP Push notification should be sent to the cardholder, the Notification
          Server will update the Transaction Table.
      5. A request will then be sent to the Messaging Server.
      6. The Messaging Server will interface with the Mobile Network through a WAP
 5        Gateway Provider or a Mobile Operator to send out the WAP Push Notification
          to the cardholder's mobile number.
      7. a. On successful outgoing call connection, WAP Push Notification delivery, a
          delivery report will be returned from the WAP gateway to the system reporting
          the successful delivery, and the Transaction Table will be updated again.
10        b. If the WAP Push Notification delivery is not successful, then the WAP
          gateway will send a delivery report to the system informing of the unsuccessful
          WAP Push Notification delivery, and the system can retry the notification using
          an alternative method (e.g. using SMS or IVR, etc)
      8. The cardholder has three options:
15        1. Ignore the WAP Push notification, if the transaction is a valid and legitimate
              transaction. The system will not act upon the transaction.
          2. Open the WAP page from the URL link and if the transaction shown in the
              notification is valid, respond by selecting the "accept" button on the WAP
              page. The system will not act upon the transaction.
20        3. Open the WAP page from the URL link and if the transaction shown in the
               notification is invalid, respond by selecting the "block" button on the WAP
               page. The system in question will receive this message from the WAP
               Gateway and forward the blocking request to the card organisation's card
               system that will in turn block the transaction and block the card for future
25             usage. The cardholder will then receive a confirmation that the card is
               blocked for future usage.
   The blocking method (option 3 above) is now explained in further detail.
30 The general flow shown in Figure 7 is as follows:
           1. Cardholder receives a WAP Push notification with a URL link to a WAP
               page, in the cardholders preferred language, for the transaction that has

                                            38
            occurred and providing the various options to the cardholder. The cardholder
            clicks on the URL link and is directed to the transaction WAP page.
       2. The cardholder will be given the following options:
 5 A. To confirm that the transaction is a valid transaction please press the button
   marked "accept" on the WAP page"
   B. "To flag that the transaction is an invalid transaction please press the button
   marked "block" on the WAP page"
10
   If option A is chosen, the WAP response is sent to the system and the transaction
   table cleared but the system does not act upon the transaction. A result WAP page
   will be presented confirming the "accept" option was received by the system. A
   WAP delivery report will also be received.
15
       3. If option B is chosen, the system will receive the block request from the
            WAP Gateway in the Incoming Messaging Server and will process the
            request.
       4. The card transaction is obtained from the transaction table for this mobile
20          number. The Incoming Messaging Server will update the Transaction Table.
       5. Based on the mobile number and the verification code, the Incoming
            Messaging Server will send a request to the card organisation's card system
            to block the transaction.
       6. The Card organisation's card system blocks the cardholder's card.
25     7. The Card Blocking event is recorded in the Card Blocking Table.
       8. A result WAP page will be forwarded by the incoming Messaging server to
            the outgoing Messaging Server for delivery to the cardholder.
       9. The Outgoing Messaging Server delivers the result WAP page to the
            cardholder.
30      10. The cardholder receives the result WAP page confirming that the transaction
            was blocked and the card has been blocked. A WAP delivery report will also
            be received.
        11. The result WAP page is updated in the Transaction table.

                                               39
   An important aspect of the invention is to technically implement the functionality
   described above to provide real-time fraud alerting. In these solutions, a notification is
   sent to the cardholder when a transaction on the card takes place, if certain criteria are
 5 met.
   Typically, criminals will attempt to withdraw as much money as possible from the
   stolen cards over a given time. Typically money will be taken from several cards at the
   same terminal. To avoid suspicion after using one terminal for a short time, the gang
10 will likely move to other terminals in the same area.
   By identifying in near real-time the location and terminal where the criminal gang is
   illegally withdrawing money or purchasing goods, the financial institution is in a unique
   position to shut down terminals and/or direct police forces to where the gang is
15 operating.
   The system monitors incoming blocking SMS messages from cardholders. If a number
   of blocking texts are received for a particular terminal within a short period of time (say
   10 - 20 minutes), the system will immediately alert the financial institution or a
20 monitoring station.
   If a card is blocked by the card user, the system will store certain information in a
   CardBlocking table. This table can contain the following information.
      Terminal ID
25    Terminal Type (ATM, POS, etc)
      Longitude of terminal
      Latitude of terminal
      Timestamp for blocked transaction
      Amount deducted for blocked transaction
30    Currency of amount deducted (6, E, $, etc)
      Card organisation's card system transaction id
      Application transaction id
      Card Number for blocked card

                                                 40
   In order for the service to work, the name and address of all terminals issued within a
   country must be provisioned in the system along with the terminal type (shop merchant
   terminal, ATM, terminal used for internet transactions).
 5
   All terminals will be "geocoded" (can also be done based on the address) which include
   storing the longitude and latitude of each terminal. When a transaction is reported for a
   card blocking event occurring at a particular terminal, the terminal longitude, latitude is
   needed to search for other blocking transactions on terminals within a radius of the
10 terminal.
   The service will store each terminal's description, longitude and latitude in a separate
   table called "TerminalId". This table will be queried prior to updating the
    "CardBlocking" table. The TerminalId table will comprise of the following columns:
15    Terminal ID
      Terminal Description
      Longitude of terminal
      Latitude of terminal
20  The financial organisation or card organisation will be held responsible for maintaining
    the TerninalId table. If no entry for a certain terminal can be found, the longitude and
    latitude will be left blank.
    The system of the present invention will continuously calculate the number of frauds per
25  terminal and display this information on a screen for a fraud surveillance centre to
    monitor. The system offers various different display options and search options:
         " Possibility to configure the system only to see any fraud alerts with a certain
            time limit, e.g. the last 10 minutes or last 5 hours
         * It is possible to display the fraud alerts in a real-time view where the fraud alerts
30          are not calculated or combined, but just a near real-time view of fraud alerts as
            they come in per Terminal ID. The Fraud Surveillance Centre will then always
            have the possibility to see where the latest fraud has occurred. Using this view it

                                                41
            is also possible to view the card number used, the amount and the currency
            withdrawn.
   The system of the present invention can offer two types of displays. Figure 8 shows the
 5 full list of all Terminal ID's (can be configured to be within a geographical area) that
   has been exposed to fraud. It will contain the count of number of fraud for each
   Terminal ID, but also a time field indicating when the latest fraud occurred on this
   Terminal ID. It is possible to select one Terminal ID to view further details available-for
   this terminal. Example of this would be the possibility to view the history of fraud for
10 this one Terminal ID. Figure 9 is a map view showing all the Terminal IDs within a
   selected geographical area and the number of frauds occurred per terminal in this view.
   This view will also contain a timestamp of when the latest fraud happened on any given
   Terminal ID. It is possible to select one Terminal ID to view further details available for
   this terminal. Example of this would be the possibility to view the history of fraud for
15 this one Terminal ID.
   The service will offer a geographical map (which can zoom to street level) depicting the
   locations of terminals where frauds have been committed in recent time. This
   geographical map can be used by various monitoring stations. The service will also
20 enable the users of the system the possibility to filter out older card blocking events and
   display only those events which have occurred in say the last 1, 12, 24 or 48 hour
   periods.
   Each terminal comprises a colour code when displayed on the map indicating the
25 number of fraudulent transactions which have occurred at that terminal during that time.
   E.g. the colour red may indicate a significant number of card blocking events from
   transactions made at that terminal. Orange and blue would indicate a lesser number of
   events at that coloured terminal. Displayed beside the terminal icon on the map will be
   the number of frauds which have occurred at that terminal in recent times. In addition a
30 local cluster of terminals used to process card blocking events will be indicated with a
   colour coded circle. The total number of frauds which have been processed on the
   terminals within that circle will be displayed.

                                                 42
   This enables the monitoring centre staff to identify problem areas very easily. The
   display will be constantly updated giving staff the latest information on the threat
   situation.
 5 At the bottom of the screen there will be a scrolling list of recent card blocking events
   and the time the events occurred. When the service issues its automatic alerts the alert
   updates will be displayed at the bottom of the screen.
   Similar alert displays as installed in the monitoring station can be installed in the
10 financial institution giving the financial institution immediate access to the current
   threat situation. It also gives the financial institution the ability to see in near real time
   the actions the monitoring station and police forces are taking to address the problem.
   Terminals where there are a number of instances of fraud, in a short space of time, will
15 immediately get the Card Organisation's attention and they can work together with local
   police to catch criminals in the act.
   The present invention also offers the possibility to store contact numbers for each shop
   merchant terminal to enable the service to the possibility to send SMS text alerts to all
20 businesses operating within the alert area to be on their guard for suspected criminal
   gang working the area. Phone and SMS contact details for the 24 hour monitoring
   station can also be provided in the SMS alerts. This would further assist the monitoring
   station co-ordinate the efforts to locate the criminal gang and direct police efforts.
25 Referring now to Figure 10 there is illustrated a fraud detection alerting service
    according to another aspect of the present invention. When frauds take place, the present
    invention will identify in what area the fraud has taken place and identify who the alert
    should be sent to. This service allows for local police or card organisation investigators
   to receive fraud alerts for terminals that are being exposed to fraud in their area directly
30  as they happen. This increases the chances of catching the criminals in the act.
   If the number of blocking events for terminals within this area is above a threshold then
   the service will automatically create an alert and issue this alert to a monitoring station.

                                                 43
    The service is able to determine the terminal's location based on the longitude and
    latitude of the terminal, so the service will identify what monitoring station to send the
    alert to.
 5  This integration can be as simple as to the mobile phone of the local police, or it can be
    to a navigation device such as a TomTom (or any suitable satellite navigation device),
    where a message will be constructed, coordinates set, to route the police to the terminal
    were fraud is being committed.
10  The invention also provides a fraud identifier feature. The purpose of this feature is to
     identify the person who committed fraud by checking all available data against a set of
    rules, to identify where the card details can have been compromised. A number of
     blocking events occurs. If a configurable number of blocked events occur generate an
     alert.
15
     When an alert is generated, the first card will be checked to see if it was used together
     with the second card, and then to see if it was used together with the third card, and so.
     The main idea is to pinpoint where the actual card details were compromised in the first
     place and locate the fraudster, e.g. a shop assistant taking card details from a shop Point
20    of Sale (POS). One possibility is for the banks and financial institutions to add an extra
      layer of security for POS terminals. The banks can force POS operators to identify
     themselves every time they use the terminal (prior to asking the customer to enter their
      details). It would then be possible to pinpoint who stole the card details.
25    The service is based on that all card transactions are forward to the system and any
      attempts of illegitimate transactions are immediately reported using the services
      described above.
      If a card is blocked, the system will store certain information in a table called Blocking
 30   that may comprise the following information:
        Terminal ID
         Terminal Type (ATM, POS, etc)

                                                44
     Longitude of terminal
     Latitude of terminal
     Timestamp for blocked transaction
     Amount deducted for blocked transaction
 5   Currency of amount deducted (6, f, $,etc)
     Card organisation's card system transaction id
     Application transaction id
     Card Number for blocked card
10 The longitude and latitude for each terminal id will be retrieved from a separate table
   from the Terminal_Id table.
   Another table called Query will contain all the rules used to determine whether a
   specific Terminal is more exposed of fraud than other terminals. The Query table will
   contain the following fields:
15      &  Rule Name- Name of the rule
     Distance - Containing the distance from the original terminal the search should
     include
     Time - The time in the past to limit the search
     Trigger - This is the number of blocking events required before the rule triggers
20   Order - The order in which the rules should be executed
        a Alert Priority - The priority of the alert given if the rule triggers
   An example of a search is illustrated in Figure 11. When fraud is reported for a terminal,
   the system will use this terminal as the centre for its calculations when it executes the
25 various rules. The rules will check for other terminals in the same area that has been
   exposed to fraud, and it will check using different time intervals. The time interval here
   refers to how far back in time the search will check. So for example, the rules will check
   all terminals within a 500 meters radius for the last 30 minutes, and then maybe check
   again using the same radius, but going back further in time. The output of executing
30 these rules against data available in the BlockingCards table will be stored in a table
   called Terminal-Alerts.
   The fraud identifier feature can operate in the following manner:

                                                 45
   Every time there is a new fraud reported for a terminal, a set of rules will be executed
   against this terminal to search for terminals which have been exposed to fraud in the
   geographical neighbourhood. The set of rules defined in the Query table in the
 5 prioritized order until the first rule produce a result. When a result is produced, this
   result will be stored in a TerminalAlert table. Alert information (like terminal ID,
   blocking count, time interval) is captured for each tenninal at configurable time
   intervals (30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours) in a table called
   TerminalAlerts. The TerminalAlerts comprises of the following columns:
10    Alertid
      Terminalid
      Initialalerttime
      Fraud-count
      Alert_update time
15
    The AlertDescription table contains the following columns:
      Alertid
      Alertstate - Acknowledged, Cleared, Active
      Description - Alarm Description
20    MapURL - URL for the map
      AlertHandler - Name of person handling alert
    In the situation where an alert has already been created for this terminal ID the invention
    operates in the following manner. If this is a new alert within the same area, then update
25  the existing alert. If it is a new alert outside the existing area, the search area is
    expanded to see if it is part of the same alert. This is needed to ensure that the alert is on
    the correct map. The new alert might be missing from the current map, so it may be
    required to expand the area to display for the map.
30  When an alert occurs, it is required to generate a map where the alert can be displayed.
    For example a request is sent towards a Microsoft software product. This will generate
    an URL for the map image. In order for the correct icons and data to be displayed on the
    map, it is required either Microsoft or MultiMap to do something on their side to use the

                                                 46
    correct icons. If a new alert comes in a new URL will need to be generated. It will be
    appreciated that it will be possible to Zoom and Pan in the map. The zoom is done by
    using the mouse to create a new square of the area that the user is interested in. The new
    coordinates are calculated by calculating the pixels from the mouse starting position and
 5  the end position against an offset at the bottom left part of the screen. This will give you
    the pixels required to retrieve the longitude and latitude.
    A new request to the blocking table is then required to retrieve all the blocking events
    within this area, The search will be executed based on the longitude and latitude in the
10  Blocking table. The invention can also provide an option to select the default display
     options. A summary can be default or not, this can be selected. The summary will give
    you the total number of alerts in the displayed area.
     It will be appreciated that the invention is based on the fact that the best person to
15   identify fraud is the cardholder herself/himself. If the cardholder is kept informed of
     transactions on their account in real-time, then they can immediately detect and flag
     transactions as being fraudulent. The card can then be blocked by the bank, significantly
     reducing the window the criminal has for fraudulent activities.
20   Once a blocking event is received the invention can identify at which terminal the
     fraudulent event took place and the geographical position of the terminal. The system of
     the present invention has a separate table where it stores details such as terminal ID for
      all blocked events. Each terminal ID is geo-coded to obtain longitude and latitude
      addresses for terminals (e.g. ATM, POS). From these reports can be generated showing
25   the fraudulent transactions in an area, and tracking the route of a fraudster on a map.
      The invention provides a means to monitor incoming blocking events from cardholders.
      If a number of blocking events are received within defined time periods for a particular
      terminal or terminals in a defined area, and immediately alert the financial institution.
      The financial institution is now in a unique position to shut down the particular terminal
 30   and/or contact Police or Security agency to investigate in that area.
      It will be appreciated that criminals will typically use stolen credit/debit cards from
      several different financial institutions. Each institution only sees fraudulent activity

                                                47
   which occurs on cards belonging to their own customers. By deploying the invention as
   a hosted solution for banks, it is possible to receive blocking events for all the banks.
   This allows cross bank analysis to more effectively identify terminals and areas under
   attack in a very short space of time. Alerts can then be generated and sent to banks or a
 5 monitoring centre. This gives unprecedented early fraud detection which allowing for
   preventative actions and police involvement at the time the fraud is occurring.
   The combination of this alert ability and mapping feature enables the deployment of a
   Police Fraud Detection Centre. All alerts are displayed in this centre with mapping
10 giving a valuable overall real-time view of all fraud detected by the system of the
   present invention. The operations centre can track the path of criminals and identify the
   likely terminal to be hit next, as well as more effectively aiding Police or security
   personnel to apprehend the criminals. Images from the terminal of the criminals, maps
   highlighting where the fraud took place as well as any additional infonnation can be
15 sent out to the mobile of police officers on the ground in the area.
   The following is a description of the invention in operation. Some criminals have built
   up a collection of cards from different financial institutions and are using them in
   Dublin to steal money. The criminals start to walk down Grafton Street in central
20 Dublin. The first stop would be HMV followed by AIB, Harry Street as they make their
   way towards Brown Thomas. Allied Irish Bank, Bank of Ireland and Ulster Bank will
   receive the blockings and prevent further frauds on those cards. However individually
   they will have no knowledge about fraudulent activities on other institutions cards,
   When the number of blocking events for terminals within the Grafton St area is above a
25 threshold then the system of the invention automatically creates an alert and issues this
   alert to a 24 hours monitoring service (or to Gardai (Police) directly).
   The alerts are displayed on a screen showing a specific area, in our example, the Dublin
   2 Grafton Area is shown in Figure 12. On the screen the active alerts can be seen and
30 the operator has the opportunity to drill down and see alert details and transactions for
   the selected area. An alert on the same terminal will be pinned several times on the
   screen. The operators can easily assembly a report and alert the local Gardai as well as
   the financial institutions whose terminals have been used to steal money.

                                               48
   To further save time and resources a selection of potential suspects can be prepared at
   the 24 hour monitoring station. Most banks have digital cameras focused on every
   ATM. These images are transferred from the individual banks to a secure storage array
 5 hosted in a high security data centre. The monitoring system operator who sees the alert
   can drill into each blocking event and view the images of the people who performed the
   actual transaction, as shown in Figure 13. The operator can scan through the images,
   select and store them in order to compare them with images from other blocldng events
   which form part of this alert. Alternatively, a facial recognition system can be used with
10 suspects compared with images of known criminals stored in the off-site database. In
   this way a selection of suspects can be created and forwarded to a mobile (cellular)
   phone distribution list of Gardai working in that area. As a result, Gardai on the ground
    can quickly identify and apprehend the suspects for questioning.
15  The 24 hour monitoring station will update the alert status in the system. For example
    should the Gardaf apprehend the criminal gang responsible for the alert the status of the
    alert and the blocking events which caused the alert will be updated to "resolved". This
    means that the alert is closed.
20  Figure 14 illustrates the incoming E-Mail transactions interface. The Incoming FE
    Email Transaction plug-in will be able to extract the transactions and input them into the
    system. The system can then notify the cardholders. The E-mail will contain one or
    more spreadsheet files, for instance according to the Microsoft Excel format or
    spreadsheet format described above, containing the relevant information about the
25  transactions. Each spreadsheet file can contain multiple transactions to be notified. Each
    row in the spreadsheet will represent a single transaction. The system Incoming FE
    Email Transaction Plug-in parses the spreadsheets, reading up and processing each
    transaction row.
30  The Incoming FE Email Transaction plug-in assumes that each file will have the
    rendered PAN in the Account Identifier column. As a rendered PAN will not have a
    card profile in the system, the plug-in will need to supply an override profile. Override
    profiles are used when no individual card profile can be found. Based on which

                                                49
   telephone number is populated (mobile, home or office) a different override profile is
   chosen. For example if mobile number is populated then a profile which notifies using
   SMS will be chosen. For home and office an IVR profile could be chosen. These
   profiles must have been defined for the namespace specific to that tenant.
 5
   Once an override profile has been assigned the transaction will be forwarded into the FE
   (using the FE Java API), and the response code obtained. This response code will then
   be populated in the received transaction spreadsheet file. After all transactions in an
   email are processed, then each received transaction spreadsheet file (updated with
10 response codes) is populated in a reply email. The email is the sent back to the email
   address that sent the transactions.
   One mandatory element of the spreadsheet is the rendered PAN, the last four digits of
   which are used in the notification sent to the cardholder. Override profiles are stored in
15 the organisations specific namespace. So to find the profile, the system needs to know
   the sending organisation. The username and password in the spreadsheet file provides
    security and also identifies the sending tenant. Therefore the username and password are
    also mandatory fields in the spreadsheet.
20 Figure 15 illustrates an outgoing E-Mail Reporting spreadsheet. The system will be able
   to report events to Tenants by emailing a spreadsheet file, for instance again per the
   Microsoft Excel format. This Outgoing E-Mail Reporting plug-in receives the
    information to be reported and populates a spreadsheet file with same. It subsequently
    sends the spreadsheet file via email to the Tenant. The destination address of the email
25  shall be as defined in the Organisation Event Settings. An Outgoing E-Mail Reporting
   plug-in shall be created for event reporting. The report shall be created as a spreadsheet
    file. The spreadsheet report template file to be populated shall be available on the
    system's file system. The report name shall take the name of the template spreadsheet
    file and append the current date time using the format YYYY-MM-DD_HI--MM-SS.
30
    The spreadsheet file shall be populated with the entries which have changed state since
    the last report was generated. Each transaction to be reported shall be inserted as a row

                                               50
   in the spreadsheet file. The report shall contain the following details about each
   transaction:
   -        Account Identifier (Card Number / Account Number / Rendered PAN.
            whichever was received in the original transaction request)
 5 -        Transaction Value
   -        Number Notified
   -        Notification Method
   -        Notification State
   -        Notification Time
10 -        Delivery Time
   -        Answer Time
   -        Expiry Time
   -        Custom Field I
   -        Custom Field 2
15          Custom Field 3
    -       Custom Field 4
   -        Custom Field 5
    -       Custom Field 6
    -       Custom Field 7
20  -       Custom Field 8
    -       Custom Field 9
    -       Custom Field 10
   The email address to which the report is to be sent shall be obtained from the
25 provisioned Organisation Event Settings. The Number Notified field must contain the
   cardholder's number to which the notification was sent. Notification State column
    entries must use the following terminology:
    -       Successful notification
    -       Failed notification
30  -       Positive customer answer
    -       Failed customer answer
    -       Expired

                                                 51
   If the number of events to be reported is greater than can be contained in one
   spreadsheet file, then multiple spreadsheet files shall be attached to the report email.
   It will be appreciated that key benefits for the system and method of the present
 5 invention can be summarised as follows:
       1. All Card transactions over a configurable amount are monitored by the
            cardholder via a notification system, e.g. SMS, IVR (phone call) or WAP.
       2. The Cardholder has the ability to block the card to prevent further fraud via e.g.
10          SMS, IVR (phone call) or WAP.
       3. The system is a registration based service. Only cardholders registered to the
            service will have the possibility to monitor transactions and block the card. The
            cardholder will in this way keep control of all card transactions when they
            happen, and can for example quickly discover that a charge has not occurred
15          twice, or a charge that they are not aware of has occurred on their card.
       4. The system significantly limits the time for which the card is available to the
            criminals to abuse.       .
       5. It is possible for the financial institution to override the subscriber settings in the
            system and force a notification to be sent to the cardholder. For example, if an
20          internal fraud detection system detects patterns of potentially fraudulent activity
            the system can be used to notify the cardholder.
       6. It is possible to configure the send notification threshold transaction value on a
            card by card basis.
       7. It is possible to flag a card to have a notification sent for all transactions
25          regardless of value.
       8. Cardholders can register to the service by sending a notification to the system of
            the present invention. This makes registration easy and ensures correct mobile
            number for system subscribers.
       9. The system supports multi-lingual notifications for multiple tenants.
30      10. The invention allows for the result of one transaction originating from one
            external system within a tenant's organisation, and send a reply to another
             external system within the tenant's organisation.

                                                52
       11. The fact that notifications are only sent for transactions over a configurable
           amount will reduce the OPEX. The invention will filter out low value
           transactions which the financial institution deems unworthy of protecting.
       12. The system will identify which terminal was used and where the terminal is
 5         located when the card is blocked. When several blockings have been made from
           one specific terminal or in a defined area the system will send the infonnation to
           the local police/monitoring station. It is a great advantage to have a direct real
           time co-ordination of all blocking activities for the whole country.
10 It will be appreciated that the system and method of the present invention operates on
   the basis that every card transaction is forwarded from the card organisation's card
   system to this system using HTTP POST, HTTPS POST, SMTP (E-Mail), XML,
   SOAP, etc. The interface to the invention is completely customisable, and the plug-in
   architecture allows the invention to be integrated to any system using any interface.
15
   The application of an SMTP (E-Mail) interface supporting incoming transactions and
   outgoing reports for the integrated tenant makes the integration quick and easy, with
   minimal impact on the tenant being integrated and also it minimises the provisioning
   required in the system.
20
   The system will attempt to re-deliver any notification that was not delivered
   successfully the first time. The system will ensure that the notification is delivered to the
   cardholder and if one notification method is failing to deliver the notification, the
   system can be configured to use an alternative notification delivery method.
25
   It will be further appreciated that the invention can be provided as a hosted solution
   exceeding PCI compliance and using Oracle's secure vault database technology using a
   high security secure data centre, for example Eircom's secure database in Clonshaugh in
   North Dublin, Ireland. It is envisaged that the database will operate using Oracle DB.
30 Other secure software hosting can also be used.
   The benefit of the present invention is to halt fraud at an early stage to prevent further
   abuse of the cardholders and banks. The system of the invention saves money and time

                                               53
   to track the fraud. Because the solution is hosted in an offsite high security datacentre,
   participating banks do not need to build up an expensive and time consuming solution
   on site. Financial institutions simply stream a feed of transactions over an encrypted
   VPN directly to the secure inventive system. This results in minimal deployment time
 5 and investment.
   The invention also has the benefit in that allows to be utilised as a fraud notification
   system. For example, external systems performing fraud detection or on-line phishing
   analysis can be integrated to the system and allow cardholders to be notified via the
10 invention's supported notifications methods. External systems can be integrated using
   system's E-Mail Transaction Plug-in to receive potential fraudulent transactions and
   notify the cardholders/end users using the information received in the incoming E-Mail
   Transaction files.
15 Having a centralised fraud detection service is very beneficial for all banks in Ireland,
    and outside of Ireland, since today there is no awareness of card fraud occurs in other
    banks. Such a centralised third party fraud detection service allows all banks to
    collaborate in a joint effort to prevent fraud while still maintaining complete
    confidentiality of the fraud level occurring in a particular bank. For example, thieves
20  will use cards belonging to a number of institutions when defrauding using a particular
    terminal or terminals in an area. Each bank may become aware of attacks against its
    own customers when calls are made to customer care, but it is its only when attacks
    against customers of all banks are visible will the fraudsters activity become
    immediately visible. Gardai can now be alerted and directed in near real time to the
25  scene of the gang's activities. For the end customer it is an easy and secure way to
    control the use of the card at a minimum cost, since no major card charge will pass
    unnoticed.
    The embodiments in the invention described with reference to the drawings comprise a
30  computer apparatus and/or processes performed in a computer apparatus. However, the
    invention also extends to computer programs, particularly computer programs stored on
    or in a carrier adapted to bring the invention into practice. The program may be in the
    form of source code, object code, or a code intermediate source and object code, such as

                                                54
   in partially compiled form or in any other form suitable for use in the implementation of
   the method. The carrier may comprise a storage medium such as ROM, e.g. CD ROM,
   or magnetic recording medium, e.g. a floppy disk or hard disk. The carrier may be an
   electrical or optical signal which may be transmitted via an electrical or an optical cable
 5 or by radio or other means.
   In this specification the term "credit card" refers to credit cards (MasterCard @, Visa @,
   Diners Club @, etc.) as well as charge cards (e.g., American Express @ , some
   department store cards), debit cards such as usable at ATMs and many other locations or
10 laser cards or that are associated with a particular account, and hybrids thereof (e.g.,
   extended payment American Express , bank debit cards with the Visa @ logo, etc.)
   and should be afforded the widest possible interpretation.
   While the foregoing description makes reference to particular illustrative embodiments,
15 these examples should not be construed as limitations. Not only can the inventive
   system be modified for other card numbered systems; it can also be modified for other
   computer networks or numbering schemes. Thus, the present invention is not limited to
   the disclosed embodiments, but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the
   description and/or drawings. The invention can be used for any notification, not only
20 restricted to credit cards as defined above, but also covers real-time notifications of
   transactions that occur on any retail website or notifications of any internet purchase to
   the cardholder.
   The invention is not limited to the embodiments hereinbefore described but may be
25 varied in both construction and detail.

                                                55
   Claims
   1.       An apparatus for preventing electronic transaction fraud, comprising
            a plurality of network - connected data processing terminals, including at least
 5 one server,
            means for receiving an electronic authorisation request at the server from a first
   data processing terminal, wherein the request is for authorising the processing of an
   electronic transaction associated with a cardholder's card data or account data;
            means for filtering the received request according to predetermined filtering
10 criteria;
            means for identifying at least a second data processing terminal as a cardholder
   device;
            means for sending the request to the cardholder device, to notify the cardholder
   that processing of an electronic transaction is proposed, a parameter of which is said
15 cardholder's card data or account data; and
            means for receiving interrupt data from the second terminal and for interrupting
   processing of the, or any further, electronic transaction with that card data or account
   data.
20 2.       Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for allowing
   processing of the electronic transaction.
   3.       Apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of network
   connected data processing terminals includes at least the first and second data
25 processing terminals and the server.
   4.       Apparatus according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the first data
   processing terminal data and the server are connected by a first network, and the second
   data processing terminal data and the server are connected by the first or a second
30 network.
   5.       Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the first or second
   network is selected from the group comprising a public switched telephone network, a

                                                  56
   cellular telecommunication network, a wide area network, a local area network, a
   wireless local area network, a virtual private network and an interbank network.
   6.       Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the first data
 5 processing terminal is selected from the group comprising an electronic point of sale
   terminal, an electronic card processing terminal, an automatic teller machine, a
   telephone, a cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a portable computing device, a
   desktop computing device.
10 7.       Apparatus according to any one of claims I to 6, wherein the at least second data
   processing terminal is selected from the group comprising a telephone, a cellular
   telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager, a personal digital assistant, a portable computing
   device, a desktop computing device.
15 8.       Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the means for
   identifying the at least second data processing terminal comprises a database storing at
   least, for each cardholder, card or account data associated with a network address of at
   least a second data processing terminal.
20 9.       Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the means for identifying is adapted to
   identify a plurality of data processing terminals as respective devices of a same
   cardholder.
   10.      Apparatus according to any one of claims I to 9, wherein the means for filtering
25 the received request according to predetermined filtering criteria comprises a filter
   engine.
   11.      Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the predetermined filtering criteria is
   selected from data representative of any one, or a combination, of the group comprising
30 a mandatory notification, an optional notification, a transaction amount threshold, a
   geographical position, a first data processing terminal type, a network type, a financial
   institution identifier, a merchant identifier.

                                                 57
   12.     Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the means for sending
   the request to the cardholder device comprises any one, or a combination, selected from
   the group comprising messaging instructions stored and processed by the at least one
   server, a cellular messaging server, an interactive voice response apparatus.
 5
    13.    Apparatus according to any one of claims I to 12, wherein the means for
   receiving interrupt data from the second terminal and interrupting processing of the
   electronic transaction comprises a combination of at least one selected from the group
   comprising messaging instructions stored and processed by the at least one server, a
10 cellular messaging server and an interactive voice response apparatus, respectively
   receiving the interrupt data from the at least second tenninal, and a transaction
   processing terminal.
    14.    Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the interrupt data is
15 any one, or a combination, selected from the group comprising a portion of card data, a
   portion of account data, a personal identification number, alphanumerical data
   representative of a user decision, digitized audio data representative of a user decision, a
   predetermined period of time.
20  15.    Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the plurality of
   network - comected data processing terminals includes at least one security terminal
   operated by a state, official or private security organisation.
    16.    Apparatus according to claim 15, further comprising means to automatically
25  communicate interrupt data to the security terminal, whenever interrupt data is received
   from a second terminal for an electronic transaction.
    17.    Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the means to automatically
   communicate further comprises aggregating means for receiving the interrupt data and
30 generating fraud reporting data.
    18.    Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the fraud reporting data corresponds
   to at least one selected from the group comprising a geographical position, a first data

                                                 58
   processing terminal type, a financial institution identifier, a merchant identifier, image
   data, audio data and video data, as a function of whether any such data is stored at the
   first data processing terminal and/or at the server in connection with the reported
   transaction.
 5
    19.     Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the fraud reporting data corresponds
   to a combination of some or all of data corresponding to a geographical position, a first
   data processing tenninal type, a financial institution identifier, a merchant identifier,
   image data, audio data and/or video data, as a function of whether any such data is
10 stored at the first data processing terminal and/or at the server in connection with the
   reported transaction,
   20.      Apparatus according to any one of claims 15 to 19, wherein the at least one
    security terminal is selected from the group comprising a telephone, a cellular
15 telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager, a personal digital assistant, a portable computing
    device, a desktop computing device, a personal radio, a two-way radio, a mobile radio
    or computing device aboard a land vehicle, aircraft or ship, or a combination thereof.
    21.     A method of preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network comprising a
20  plurality of network - connected data processing terminals, including at least one server,
    the method comprising the steps of
            receiving an electronic authorisation request at the server from a first data
    processing terminal, wherein the request is for authorising the processing of an
    electronic transaction associated with a cardholder's card data or account data;
25          filtering the received request according to predetermined filtering criteria;
            identifying at least a second data processing terminal as a cardholder device;
            sending the request to the cardholder device, to notify the cardholder that
    processing of an electronic transaction is proposed, a parameter of which is said
    cardholder's card data or account data;
30          receiving interrupt data from the second terminal; and
             interrupting processing of the, or any further, electronic transaction with that
    card data or account data.

                                                59
   22.      Method according to claim 21, comprising the further step of allowing
   processing of the electronic transaction.
   23.      Method according to claim 21 or 22, comprising the further step of storing a
 5 database storing at least, for each cardholder, card or account data associated with a
   network address of at least a second data processing terminal.
   24.      Method according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the step of identifying
   comprises the further step of identifying a plurality of data processing terminals as
10 respective devices of a same cardholder.
   25.      Method according to any one of claims 21 to 24, wherein the step of filtering the
   received request comprises the further step of selecting data representative of any one,
   or a combination, of the group comprising- a mandatory notification, an optional
15 notification, a transaction amount threshold, a geographical position, a first data
   processing terminal type, a network type, a financial institution identifier, a merchant
   identifier.
   26.      Method according to any one of claims 21 to 25, wherein the step of sending the
20 request to the cardholder device comprises the further step of selecting any one, or a
   combination, from the group comprising messaging instructions stored and processed by
   the at least one server, a cellular messaging server, an. interactive voice response
   apparatus.
25 27.      Method according to any one of claims 21 to 26, wherein the step of receiving
   interrupt data from the second terminal comprises the further steps of inputting interrupt
    data at the at least second terminal and communicating same.
    28.      Method according to claim 27, wherein the step of interrupting processing of the
30  electronic transaction comprises the further steps of receiving the interrupt data at any
    one, or a combination, selected from the group comprising messaging instructions
    stored and processed by the at least one server, a cellular messaging server and an

                                                  60
   interactive voice response apparatus, and communicating same to a transaction
   processing terminal.
   29.      Method according to any one of claims 21 to 28, comprising the further step of
 5 automatically communicating interrupt data to a security terminal, whenever interrupt
   data is received from a second terminal for an electronic transaction, wherein the
   security terminal is operated by a state, official or private security organisation.
   30.      Method according to claim 29, wherein the step of automatically communicating
10 interrupt data comprises the further steps of receiving the interrupt data and generating
   fraud reporting data.
   31.      Method according to claim 30, wherein the generating step generates fraud
   reporting data from at least one selected from the group comprising a geographical
15 position, a first data processing tenninal type, a financial institution identifier, a
    merchant identifier, image data, audio data and video data, as a function of whether any
    such data is stored at the first data processing terminal and/or at the server in connection
    with the reported transaction.
20  32.     Method according to claim 31, wherein the generating step comprises the further
    step of aggregating a combination of some or all of data corresponding to a
    geographical position, a first data processing terminal type, a financial institution
    identifier, a merchant identifier, image data, audio data and/or video data.
25  33.     Method according to any one of claims 29 to 32, wherein the step of
    automatically communicating fraud reporting data comprises the further step of
    selecting the recipient security terminal from the group comprising a telephone, a
    cellular telephone, a radiotelephone, a pager, a personal digital assistant, a portable
    computing device, a desktop computing device, a personal radio, a two-way radio, a
30  mobile radio or computing device aboard a land vehicle, aircraft or ship, or a
    combination thereof.

                                                61
   34.     A carrier having a set of instructions encoded thereon which, when processed by
   a data processing apparatus, adapts the apparatus to perform the method of preventing
   card fraud according to any of claims 21 to 33.
 5 35.     A carrier according to claim 34, wherein the carrier is selected from the group
    comprising read - only memory means, random access memory means, optical data
   storage means, solid state data storage means, magnetic data storage means, electrical
   signal, optical signal.
10 36.     A carrier according to claim 34 or 35, wherein the set of instructions is selected
   from the group comprising source code, object code, compiled code, partially compiled
   code, executable code.
   37.     Computer program product encoded on a computer - readable medium which,
15 when processed by a data processing apparatus, adapts the apparatus to perform the
   method of preventing card fraud according to any of claims 21 to 33.
   38.     A method of preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network, comprising
   the steps of
20         receiving notification of an electronic transaction request
           replying to the notification with a SMS message containing a codeword and
   authentication code,
           automatically blocking a cardholder's payment card for future usage upon
   receipt of the codeword and authentication code.
25
   39.     Method according to claim 38, further comprises the step of notifying in real
   time the cardholder about the blocking of the card from future usage.
   40.     A method of preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network, comprising
30 the steps of
           contacting a phone number,
           routing to an interactive voice recognition system,

                                              62
           inputting a code word and authentication by orally recognising the code word
   and authentication using speech recognition without human interaction, or keying in a
   selected digit and code combination, and
           blocking the cardholder's payment card for future usage in response to the
 5 recognised code word and authentication or keyed in selected digit and code
   combination.
   41.     An apparatus for preventing electronic transaction fraud substantially as herein
   described with reference to the accompanying Figures.
10
   42.     A method of preventing electronic transaction fraud in a network substantially as
   herein described with reference to the accompanying Figures.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
