Described herein are methods, compositions, kits and systems for multiplexed
detection of target molecules from a sample. In some embodiments, the
methods, compositions, kits and systems can be used to perform multiplexed
protein analysis of a sample (e.g., a sample comprising a small number of
cells or a single- cell sample). In some embodiments, the same sample
subjected to a multiplexed protein analysis using the methods, compositions,
kits and systems described herein can also be subjected to a nucleic acid (e.g.,
RNAs, microRNAs, and/or DNA) analysis, thereby creating an in- tegrated
expression profiling from a limited amount of sample.

       METHODS, KITS, AND SYSTEMS FOR MULTIPLEXED DETECTION OF TARGET
                                 MOLECULES AND USES THEREOF
                            CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]      This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/834,111 filed June 12, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/912,054 filed December 5,
2013, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/972,940 filed March 31, 2014, and is a divisional of
AU 2014278537, which is a national phase of PCT/US2014/040731 (WO 2014/200767), the
contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
     [0002]      The present invention relates to methods, kits, and systems for detection of a
plurality of target molecules in a sample. The methods, kits, and systems described herein can be
used in diagnostic, prognostic, quality control and screening applications.
                                            BACKGROUND
     [0003]      An increasing number of clinical trials, e.g., cancer trials, require patient samples,
e.g., tissue biopsies, to measure individual drug response markers [1]. For example, surgically
harvested tissues are often used to collect data at two ends of the cellular spectrum: (i) genomic
analyses that reveal driver oncogenes and specific mutations [2] and (ii) protein analyses of selected
biomarkers intended to monitor cellular responses [3, 4]. Ideally, clinical samples are collected
serially to monitor change in expression levels of key proteins. This raises many challenges, notably
risk of morbidity with repeat core biopsies, increased cost, and logistical limitations. Alternative
sample collection methods include fine-needle aspirates (FNAs), "liquid biopsies" of circulating
tumor cells, or analysis of scant cells present in other easily harvested fluids. However, these
samples have much lower cell numbers than biopsies, thereby limiting the number of proteins that
can be analyzed.
     [0004]      After tissues have been sampled, selecting ubiquitous biomarkers can be difficult
because of heterogeneity and dynamic network changes. Typically, small-molecule drugs influence
more than one target proteins, whereas numerous proteins modulate downstream specific drug
actions, trigger alternative molecular pathways, and induce tumor cell death or resistance [5]. The
current tools to profile these key proteins in scant clinical samples are limited; standard practice
encompasses immunocytology, which often precludes broad protein analysis because of insufficient
sample within FNAs or liquid biopsies [6]. Thus, the number of markers is often limited (<10) and
requires time-consuming analyses of tissue sections. Proteomic analyses by mass spectrometry
remain technically challenging for single cells and phosphoproteomic detection and are costly for
                                                     1

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
routine clinical purposes [7]. In research settings, multiplexed flow cytometry and mass cytometry
have been used to examine an expanded set of markers (10 to 45) using single-cell populations.
However, multiplexed flow cytometry often encounters limits in the amount of markers it can
measure because of spectral overlap. Mass cytometry vaporizes cells during sample preparation,
resulting in sample loss [8]. Accordingly, both of these existing methods do not enable isolating a
rare cell of interest or performing concurrent genetic analyses once samples are used for proteomic
analyses.
     [00051       Hence, there remains a need for compositions and methods for simultaneous
detection of a large number of target molecules from a sample.
                                               SUMMARY
     [00061       Embodiments of various aspects described herein are, in part, based on the
development of a method that not only allows analysis of hundreds of proteins from a limited
amount of sample, e.g., minimally invasive fine-needle aspirates (FNAs), which contain much
smaller numbers of cells than core biopsies, but also preserves genetic material from the same
sample to enable simultaneous measurements of proteins and genetic materials (e.g., DNA, RNA,
and microRNAs). In particular, the method relies on DNA-barcoded antibody sensing, where
barcodes-single strands of DNA- can be photocleaved and detected using fluorescent complementary
probes without any amplification steps, and is referred to as an antibody barcoding with
photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform herein. To demonstrate the capability of the ABCD
platform, inventors isolated cancer cells within the FNAs of patients and exposed these cells to a
mixture of about 90 DNA-barcoded antibodies, covering the hallmark processes in cancer (for
example, apoptosis and DNA damage). The inventors discovered that the single-cell protein analysis
of the patients' FNAs showed high intratumor heterogeneity, indicating the ability of the ABCD
platform to perform protein profiling on rare single cells, including, but not limited to circulating
tumor cells. Further, the inventors discovered that patients who showed identical histopathology yet
showed patient heterogeneity in proteomic profiling, indicating the ability of the ABCD platform to
identify personalized targets for treatment. By profiling and clustering protein expression in patients'
samples, the inventors also showed use of the ABCD platform to monitor and predict treatment
response in patients receiving chemotherapy, e.g., kinase inhibitors. The protein analysis determined
by the ABCD platform is scalable and can be extended to detect other target molecules, e.g.,
metabolites and lipids. Accordingly, various aspects described herein provide for methods, systems
and kits for detecting and/or quantifying a plurality of target molecules from a sample, as well as
their uses thereof in various applications, e.g., diagnosis, prognosis, personalized treatment, and/or
treatment monitoring.
                                                     2

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
     [00071      In one aspect, provided herein is a method for detecting a plurality of target
molecules in a sample. The method comprises (a) contacting a sample with a composition
comprising a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises: (i) a
target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a target molecule in the sample; (ii) an
identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable
linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification nucleotide sequence; (b) releasing
the identification nucleotide sequences from the bound target probes; and (c) detecting signals from
the released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the
identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target-binding molecules
and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
     [00081       Stated another way, the method comprises: (a) forming a plurality of complexes in a
sample, each complex comprising a target molecule and a target probe bound thereto, wherein the
target probe comprises (i) a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to the target molecule
present in the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding
molecule; and (iii) a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification
nucleotide sequence; (b) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the complex; and (c)
detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are
distinguishable for the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding
target-binding molecules and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample. In some
embodiments, the cleavable linker is not pre-hybridized (e.g., by basepairing) to any portion of the
identified nucleotide sequences.
     [0009]      In some embodiments, e.g., cell assay, each complex comprising a target molecule
and a target probe bound thereto does not require two or more target probes of different kinds bound
to the same target molecule, where each of the target probes binds to a different region of the same
target molecule. For example, each complex does not require both a first target probe binding to a
first region of a target molecule, and a second target probe binding to a second region of the same
target molecule. Stated another way, in some embodiments, a single target probe as described herein
binding to a target molecule is sufficient for enablement of the methods described herein. In these
embodiments, the method described herein does not require another target probe binding to the same
target molecule for attachment to a solid substrate (e.g., a bead).
     [0010]      In some embodiments, the method can further comprise separating unbound target
probes from target probes that are bound to the target molecules in the sample.
     [0011]      The signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences can be detected by
various methods known in the art, including, but not limited to sequencing, quantitative polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed (PCR), mass cytometry, fluorophore-inactivated multiplexed
                                                     3

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
immunofluorescence, hybridization-based methods, fluorescence hybridization-based methods,
imaging, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences can be determined by electrophoresis-based methods. In some
embodiments, the signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences are not determined
by electrophoresis-based methods.
     [0012]       In some embodiments, the signals from the released identification nucleotide
sequences can be detected by hybridization-based methods. For example, in some embodiments, the
method can further comprise, prior to the detecting in (c), coupling the released identification
nucleotide sequences from (b) to a detection composition comprising a plurality of reporter probes.
Each reporter probe in the plurality can comprise (i) a first target probe-specific region that is
capable of binding a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) a detectable label
that identifies the reporter probe. In these embodiments, signals from the respective detectable labels
of the reporter probes that are coupled to the released identification nucleotide sequences can be
detected accordingly. Since the signals are distinguishable for each respective reporter probes that
are bound to the identification nucleotide sequences, target-binding molecules can be
correspondingly identified, thereby detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
     [00131       In some embodiments where reporter probes are used in the methods described
herein, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise one or more labeling molecules that
create a unique signal for each reporter probe. For example, a unique signal can be an optical signal.
The optical signal can be a light-emitting signal or a series or sequence of light-emitting signals. In
some embodiments, labeling molecules for generation of an optical signal can comprise one or a
plurality of a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a chemiluminescent moiety,
or any combinations thereof.
     [0014]       In some embodiments, the detection composition used in the methods described
herein can additionally or alternatively comprise a plurality of capture probes. Each capture probe
can comprise (i) a second target probe-specific region that is capable of binding to a second portion
of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) an affinity tag. The affinity tag of the capture
probe is generally used to permit immobilization of the released identification nucleotide sequences,
upon coupling to the detection composition, onto a solid substrate surface. In some embodiments,
immobilization of the released identification nucleotide sequences can provide distinguishable
spatial signals that identify the capture probes coupled to the released identification nucleotide
sequences. Examples of a solid substrate include, but are not limited to, a microfluidic device, a
cartridge, a microtiter plate, a tube, and an array.
     [00151       In some embodiments, the detection method in (d) does not require amplification of
the released identification nucleotide sequences, first target probe-specific region, or the second
                                                      4

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
target probe-specific region. Amplification-free detection methods can minimize any bias or errors
introduced during amplification, e.g., due to varying amplification efficiencies among the nucleotide
sequences.
     [00161       In some embodiments, identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes
described herein can be selected or designed such that they do not cross-react with any nucleic acid
sequence in a genome of a subject, whose sample is being evaluated. Thus, the identification
nucleotide sequences used to detect target molecules from a subject's sample can be selected or
designed based on nucleotide sequences of a species or genus that is different from the subject. By
way of example only, in some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences for use in an
animal's sample (e.g., a mammal such as a human) can be derived from a plant genome. In one
embodiment, the identification nucleotide sequences for use in a human's sample can be derived
from a potato genome. In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences can have
sequences selected from Table 2 (SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 110), or a fragment thereof.
     [00171       Generally, identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes can have any
sequence length and can vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to
detection methods, and/or the number of target molecules to be detected. For example, in some
embodiments, the length of the identification nucleotide sequences can increase to provide sufficient
identification of a large number of target molecules in a sample. In some embodiments where a
hybridization-based method is used to detect identification nucleotide sequences, the identification
nucleotide sequences can have a length sufficient to provide reliable binding to complementary
reporter probes and to generate detectable signals. In some embodiments, the identification
nucleotide sequences can have a length of about 30-100 nucleotides. In some embodiments, the
identification nucleotide sequences can have a length of about 70 nucleotides.
     [00181       The cleavable linker coupling a target-binding molecule to an identification
nucleotide sequence in a target probe can permit release of the identification nucleotide sequence
from the target probe upon binding to a target molecule such that the released identification
nucleotide sequence can then be detected. Cleavable linkers are known in the art, of which examples
include, but are not limited to the ones that are sensitive to an enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear
stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g., dithiothreitol), or any combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the cleavable linker can be sensitive to light and enzyme degradation.
     [0019]       In some embodiments, the cleavable linker does not comprise a polynucleotide
sequence (e.g., a single-stranded polynucleotide sequence) that is complementary (for basepairing)
to at least a portion of the identification nucleotide sequence. That is, in these embodiments, the
identification nucleotide sequence is not released from the complex by detaching from the
complementary polynucleotide sequence coupled to a target-binding molecule. Accordingly, in some
                                                      5

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
embodiments, a target probe comprises (i) a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to the
target molecule present in the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the
target-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker between the target-binding
molecule and the identification nucleotide sequence.
     [0020]      In some embodiments, the cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers can be selected from
the group consisting of hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers, phosphate-based cleavable
linkers, acid cleavable linkers, ester-based cleavable linkers, peptide-based cleavable linkers,
photocleavable linkers, and any combinations thereof In some embodiments, the cleavable linker
can comprise a disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a nitrobenzyl
group, a nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo hydroxyquinoline group, a
hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any combinations thereof
     [0021]      In some embodiments, the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker can comprise a
photocleavable linker. Any art-recognized photocleavable linker can be used for the target probes
described herein. Exemplary photocleavable linker is selected from the group consisting of
molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures of the molecules
(i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
                          'o'
                                                                            'lxi
                                        V.-R,                    (
                *6
                                                    6

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
where each of the black dots in each molecule represents a connecting or coupling point that
connects, directly or indirectly, to a target-binding molecule described herein or an
indentification nucleotide sequence described herein. The connecting point can be a bond, or
comprise an atom, a molecule, and/or a linker described herein. In some embodiments, the
connecting point is a bond.
     [0022]      In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can comprise the molecule (xiv).
     [0023]      In some embodiments where a photocleavable linker is used, the identification
nucleotide sequences can be released from the bound target probes by exposing the bound target
probes to a light of a specified wavelength. In some embodiments, ultraviolet light can be used to
release identification nucleotide sequences from bound target probes.
     [0024]      In some embodiments, the method can further comprise, prior to contacting the
sample with target probes, separating target cells from interfering cells in the sample. Methods to
separate target cells from interfering cells are known in the sample, e.g., based on cell surface
proteins that distinguish target cells from interfering cells. By way of example only, target cells or
interfering cells can be labeled with ligands that target specific cells of interests (e.g., cell-specific
antibodies). In some embodiments where the cell-specific ligands are fluorescently labeled, the
labeled cells can then be sorted, e.g., by flow cytometry. Alternatively, if the cell-specific ligands are
attached to magnetic particles, the labeled cells with bound magnetic particles can be isolated from
the sample by magnetic separation.
     [0025]      Target cells can be prokaryotic or eukaryotic, including microbes (e.g., bacteria,
fungus, virus, and/or pathogens. In some embodiments, the target cells can comprise normal cells,
diseased cells, mutant cells, germ cells, somatic cells, and/or rare cells. Example of rare cells
include, without limitations, circulating tumor cells, fetal cells, stem cells, immune cells, clonal cells,
and any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the target cells can comprise tumor cells. In
some embodiments, the tumor cells can be derived from a tissue biopsy, a fine aspirate or a liquid
biopsy (e.g., peritoneal, pleural, cerebrospinal fluid, and/or blood), a mucosal swap, a skin biopsy, a
stool sample, or any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, whole cells and/or cell lysates can
be used in the methods and/or systems described herein to detect a plurality of target molecules in a
sample. In some embodiments, the whole cells can be obtained from a fixed cell or tissue sample.
     [00261      Typically, signals detected from the identification nucleotide sequences of the target
probes corresponding to target molecules can be compared to a control reference to account for any
non-specific binding. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the composition added to the sample can
further comprise a plurality of control probes. Each control probe in the plurality can comprise: (i) a
control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the sample; (ii) an
identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable
                                                      7

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification control sequence. The control
binding molecule can bind to a control protein present in a sample. Non-limiting examples of control
proteins include housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding
proteins, and any combinations thereof.
    [00271       Signals from the control probes can then be used to threshold the signals from the
target probes. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the method can further comprise thresholding the
target signals. In some embodiments, the target signals can be thresholded on the basis of
nonspecific binding. In one embodiment, the threshold is generally set to be greater than that of the
signals from the non-specific binding. In some embodiments, the threshold can be determined by
using standard deviation and measurement error from at least one or more control proteins.
    [00281       In some embodiments, the method can further comprise quantifying the signals (e.g.,
signals that are above the pre-determined threshold) by normalizing the signals associated with the
target probes by the signals associated with the control probes. In one embodiment, the signals is
quantified and expressed as number of identification nucleotide sequences detected per target
binding agent
    [0029]       In some embodiments, the method can further comprising extracting a nucleic acid
molecule for the same sample for a nucleic acid analysis. Examples of a nucleic acid detection and
analysis can include, but are not limited to sequencing, quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(PCR), multiplexed PCR, DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing, de novo sequencing, next-generation
sequencing such as massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS), polony sequencing,
pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, ion semiconductor sequencing,
DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single molecule sequencing, single molecule real time
(SMRT) sequencing, nanopore DNA sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, sequencing with
mass spectrometry, microfluidic Sanger sequencing, microscopy-based sequencing techniques, RNA
polymerase (RNAP) sequencing, or any combinations thereof.
    [00301       While the methods described herein are described in the context where the
identification nucleotide sequences are released from bound target probes before detection, in some
embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences do not need to be released from the bound
target probes. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the methods described herein can also apply
when the identification nucleotide sequences remain bound to target probes during detection.
    [00311       Various embodiments of the methods described herein can be carried out in one or
more functional modules in a system or a computer system as described herein. Accordingly, another
provided herein relates to a system for multiplexed detection of a plurality of target molecules in a
sample. For example, the system comprises:
                                                   8

    WO 2014/200767                                                                  PCT/US2014/040731
     (a) at least one sample processing module comprising instructions for receiving said at least one
test sample comprising a sample and a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the
plurality comprises:
              i. a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to one target molecule in the sample;
              ii. an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and
              iii. a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification
              nucleotide sequence; and
wherein the at least one sample processing module further comprises instructions for releasing the
identification nucleotide sequences from the target probes that are bound to target molecules in the
sample;
     (b) a signal detection module comprising instructions for detecting signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences;
     (c) at least one data storage module comprising instructions for storing the detected signals from
(b) and information associated with identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes;
     (d) at least one analysis module comprising instructions for determining the presence of one or
more target molecules in the sample based on the detected signals; and
     (e) at least one display module for displaying a content based in part on the analysis output from
said analysis module, wherein the content comprises a signal indicative of the following: (i) the
presence of one or more target molecules in the sample, (ii) the absence of one or more target
molecules in the sample, and/or (iii) expression levels of one or more target molecules in the sample.
     [0032]        In some embodiments, the analysis module can further comprise instructions for (i)
identifying the detectable probes of the reporter probes that correspond to the detected signals; (ii)
identifying the identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes that correspond to the
detectable probes based on the first target probe-specific regions of the reporter probes; and (iii)
identifying the target-binding molecules that correspond to the identification nucleotide sequences,
thereby determining the presence of one or more target molecules in the sample.
     [00331        In some embodiments, the content can be displayed on a computer display, a screen,
a monitor, an email, a text message, a website, a physical printout (e.g., paper), or provided as stored
information in a data storage device.
     [0034]        Kits, e.g., for multiplexed detection of a plurality of different target molecules from a
sample, are also provided herein. In some embodiments, the kit comprise:
     (a) a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises:
         i. a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to one target molecule in the sample;
         ii. an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and
                                                       9

   WO 2014/200767                                                                  PCT/US2014/040731
         iii. a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification nucleotide
               sequence; and
    (b) a plurality of reporter probes, wherein each reporter probe comprises:
         i. a first target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a first portion of the
              identification nucleotide sequence; and
         ii. a detectable label that identifies the reporter probe.
    [00351         In some embodiments, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise one
or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe. An exemplary unique
signal can be an optical signal. The optical signal can comprise one or a series or a sequence of light
emitting signals. In these embodiments, non-limiting examples of the labeling molecules include
fluorochrome moieties, fluorescent moieties, dye moieties, chemiluminescent moieties, and any
combinations thereof.
    [00361         In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise a plurality of capture probes,
wherein each capture probe comprises (i) a second target probe-specific region that is capable of
binding a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) an affinity tag.
    [00371         In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise a plurality of control probes,
wherein each control probe in the plurality comprises:
     (i) a control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the sample;
    (ii) an identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and
    (iii) a cleavable linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification control
    sequence.
    [00381         In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise at least one reagent for use in one
or more embodiments of the methods or systems described herein. Reagents that can be provided in
the kit can include at least one or more of the following: a hybridization reagent, a purification
reagent, an immobilization reagent, an imaging agent, a cell permeabilization agent, a blocking
agent, a cleaving agent for the cleavable linker, primers for nucleic acid detection, nucleic acid
polymerase, and any combinations thereof
    [00391         In some embodiments, the kit can further include a device for use in one or more
embodiments of the methods and/or systems described herein. In some embodiments, the device can
comprise a surface for immobilization of the capture probes upon coupling to the identification
nucleotide sequences. In some embodiments, the device can comprise a microfluidic device for
separating target cells from interfering cells as described herein.
    [0040]         The methods, systems and kits described herein can be used to detect any target
molecules present in a sample provided that appropriate target-binding agents are used in the target
probes employed in the methods described herein. Exemplary target molecules which can be
                                                       10

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
detected by the methods, systems and kits described herein include, but are not limited to proteins,
peptides, metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells (e.g.,
eukaryotic cells, prokaryotic cells, and microbes), and any combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the target molecules to be detected can be extracellular or secreted molecules. In some
embodiments, the target molecules to be detected can be intracellular, e.g., cytoplasmic molecules or
nuclear molecules.
     [0041]       To detect intracellular molecules (e.g., intracellular proteins), the target cells in the
sample can be permeabilized or lysed such that target probes can contact the target intracellular
molecules for further processing and analysis.
     [0042]       In some embodiments, the methods, systems and kits described herein can enable
measurements of at least two target molecules of different types. For example, the methods, systems,
and kits described herein can be used to measure, for example, nucleic acid molecules and proteins,
or proteins and metabolites, or proteins and lipids. The measurements of at least two target
molecules of different types can be performed simultaneously or sequentially. In another
embodiment, by releasing identification nucleotide sequences from bound target molecules (e.g.,
proteins), genetic material and the identification nucleotide sequences can be concurrently extracted
from a single sample, enabling analyses of protein-DNA-RNA interrelationships.
     [00431       By way of example only, the methods, systems and kits described herein applied to a
sample can preserve genetic materials in a sample while detecting other non-genetic target materials
in the same sample. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the methods, systems and/or kits described
herein for detection of non-genetic target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins) can be used in
combination with a nuclei acid analysis for genetic materials, for example, to study the non-genetic
target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins) that interact with genetic materials or genetic
regulatory elements. In these embodiments, the methods and systems described herein for detecting
a plurality of target molecules in a sample as described herein can further comprise extracting a
nucleic acid molecule from the same sample in which target molecules are to be detected. In some
embodiments, the methods and systems described herein can further comprise subjecting the
extracted nucleic acid molecule to a nucleic acid analysis. Various methods can be used for nucleic
acid analysis, including, but not limited to sequencing, next generation sequencing, quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed PCR, DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing, de novo
sequencing, next-generation sequencing such as massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS),
polony sequencing, pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, ion
semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single molecule sequencing, single
molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing, nanopore DNA sequencing, sequencing by hybridization,
sequencing with mass spectrometry, microfluidic Sanger sequencing, microscopy-based sequencing
                                                     11

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
techniques, RNA polymerase (RNAP) sequencing, fluorescence hybridization-based technology
(e.g., but not limited to nanoString nCounter@ hybridization technology), any art-recognized nucleic
acid detection methods, or any combinations thereof.
     [0044]      In some embodiments, after a sample and/or non-genetic target molecules have been
labeled with a plurality of target probes described herein, the identification nucleotide sequences of
the target probes can be released from the bound non-genetic target molecules simultaneously with
extraction of nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) from the same labeled sample. In these
embodiments, both the nucleic acid molecules of interest and the identification nucleotide sequences
can be detected simultaneously in a single sample mixture. In one embodiment, both the nucleic acid
molecules of interest and the identification nucleotide sequences can be detected simultaneously in a
single sample mixture using nanoString nCounter@ analysis system, for example, as described in
U.S. Pat. No. 8,415,102, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Other art
recognized methods for nucleic acid analyses as described herein can also be used for simultaneous
detection of both nucleic acid molecules of interest (cells' genetic materials) and released
identification nucleotide sequences from bound non-genetic target molecules.
     [00451      In alternative embodiments, nucleic acid molecules can be extracted from a first
portion of a sample, while non-genetic target molecules can be independently derived or obtained
from a second portion of the same sample. In these embodiments, the nucleic acid molecules of
interest and the non-genetic target molecules can be detected separately to determine expression
levels of the nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) of interest and non-genetic target
molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins) in the same sample. The nucleic acid molecules of
interests can be subjected to any art-recognized nucleic acid analysis, while the non-genetic target
molecules can be detected through detecting and identifying the corresponding identification
nucleotide sequences released from the target probes using the methods, systems and/or kits
described herein.
     [00461      In some embodiments, the methods, systems and kits described herein can be
adapted to measure proteins and nucleic acid molecules in the same sample. For example, the
proteins can be detected by one or more embodiments of the target probes described herein, while
the nucleic acid molecules can be detected by any methods known in the art, thereby creating an
integrated expression profiling for the sample, which can provide information on interaction between
the proteins and the nucleic acid molecules, e.g., genetic regulatory elements such as microRNAs.
     [00471      The methods, systems and kits described herein can be used in any applications
where detection of a plurality of target molecules in a sample is desirable. For example, a sample can
be a biological sample, or a sample from an environmental source (e.g., water, soil, food products,
and/or ponds).
                                                    12

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
     [00481       The inventors have demonstrated that, in one embodiment, an antibody barcoding
with photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform described herein can enable analysis of hundreds of
proteins from a single cell or a limited number of cells, e.g., from minimally invasive fine-needle
aspirates (FNAs). Accordingly, samples amenable to the methods described herein can comprise less
than 500 cells or fewer. In some embodiments, the sample can be a single-cell sample. In some
embodiments, the sample can comprise cells isolated from a fine-needle aspirate.
     [0049]       Where the sample is a biological sample, in some embodiments, the methods,
systems and kits described herein can be used in personalized treatment. For example, a biological
sample can be collected from an individual subject who is in need of a treatment for a condition.
Using the methods, systems and/or kits described herein, an expression profile of target molecules
associated with the subject's condition can be generated to identify one or more therapeutic targets
for the subject, thereby identifying a treatment regimen for the subject.
     [00501       In some embodiments, the methods, systems and kits described herein can be used in
monitoring response of a subject to a treatment for his/her condition. For example, biological
sample(s) can be collected from the subject prior to and/or over the course of the treatment. Using
the methods, systems and/or kits described herein, expression profiles of target molecules associated
with the subject's condition before and/or over the course of the treatment can be generated for
comparison to determine any changes in expression levels of the target molecules in the subject,
thereby monitoring the treatment response in the subject.
     [00511       In some embodiments, the methods, systems and kits described herein can be used in
diagnosing a condition in a subject. For example, a biological sample can be collected from a subject
who is at risk for a condition. Using the methods, systems and/or kits described herein, an expression
profile of target molecules associated with the condition to be diagnosed can be generated for
comparison with one or more reference expression profiles (e.g., corresponding to a normal healthy
subject and/or a subject having the condition to be diagnosed), thereby determining whether the
subject is at risk for the condition.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0052]       Figs. 1A-IC shows an exemplary scheme of a multiplexed protein analysis in single
cells in accordance with one or more embodiments of the methods described herein. (Fig. 1A) Cells
were harvested from cancer patients by FNAs. In this case, a heterogeneous population of EpCAM
positive cancer cells (green) is displayed alongside mesothelial cells (red) with nuclei shown in blue
(Hoechst) from an abdominal cancer FNAs. Cancer cells were enriched and isolated via magnetic
separation in polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) microfluidic devices with herringbone channels using
both positive (for example, EpCAM+/CK+) and negative (for example, CD45-) selection modes.
                                                    13

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
(Fig. 1B) Cells of interest were incubated with a cocktail of DNA-conjugated antibodies containing
a photocleavable linker (Fig. 2A) to allow DNA release after exposure to ultraviolet light. (Fig. IC)
DNA-antibody conjugates released from lysed cells (Fig. 3) were isolated using size separation and
IgG pull-down. Released "alien" DNA barcodes were processed with a fluorescent DNA barcoding
platform (NanoString). Fluorescent barcodes were hybridized and imaged using a CCD camera. The
quantified barcodes were translated to protein expression levels by normalizing to DNA per antibody
and housekeeping proteins and subtracting nonspecific binding from control IgGs. A representative
profile of SKOV3 ovarian cancer cell lines shows high CD44 and high Her2 expression,
characteristic of this cell line.
     [00531       Figs. 2A-2B shows an exemplary scheme of DNA-antibody conjugation. (Fig.
2A) Various linker strategies were investigated to conjugate DNA to antibodies. In some
embodiments, the photocleavable linker (PCL) was selected owing to its better cleavage efficiency
compared with DTT, tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene (via click chemistry, linker 1), and Traut's reagent
(linker 2). Linker cleavage was tested by measuring released DNA via the NanoString platform.
Data are averages of two independent trials. **P < 0.01, paired t-test. (Fig. 2B) Linking DNA to an
antibody via the PCL. The linker was first reacted with the amine (-NH2) groups on the antibody.
After excess small molecule was removed, thiolated DNA was added at 10-fold excess to the
antibody-linker mix. The final antibody-DNA chimera was purified via both size separation and
IgG-specific pulldown. DNA could subsequently be released from the antibody by photocleavage at
a specific wavelength (365 nm).
     [0054]       Fig. 3 shows experimental data directed to optimization of lysis and blocking
methods. (Methods A to D) Four different lysis and blocking methods were used to recover DNA
from labeled cells. Lysate conditions included: (Method A) Proteinase K + PKD lysis buffer;
(Method B) Proteinase K + ATL lysis buffer; (Method C) ATL lysis buffer alone; and (Method D)
UV cleavage alone (no cell lysis). The lysate conditions were tested in duplicate (x-axis) measuring
DNA signal (y-axis) and different intracellular proteins (z-axis). The best reaction condition was
method B (Proteinase K + ATL lysis buffer), with a 20% increase in signal over methods (Methods
A and C).
     [00551       Fig. 4 is a graph showing the readouts of DNA per antibody for each target
molecule. The number of alien DNA fragments per antibody was measured by Nanostring method
(shown in graph) and independently confirmed by ssDNA quantification and Qubit protein
measurement. Data are displayed from triplicate measurements ± SEM.
     [00561       Fig. 5 shows a multiplexed protein profiling of a human breast cancer cell line.
Representative example of 88 different antibodies spanning cancer-relevant pathways (color-coded)
profiled in triplicate (mean ± SEM) on the MDAMB-231 triple-negative breast cancer cell line.
                                                    14

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
DNA counts were converted to protein binding by normalizing to the amount of DNA per antibody.
Nonspecific binding from expression of six control IgGs was subtracted, and expression was
normalized by housekeeping proteins Cox IV, histone H3, tubulin, actin, and glyceraldehyde-3
phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) (far right). AU, arbitrary units; EMT, epithelial-to
mesenchymal transition.
     [00571      Figs. 6A-6B are graphs showing effect of permeabilization schemes on antibody
labeling. (Fig. 6A) Methanol and saponin permeabilization were similar for both intracellular and
nuclear proteins. Representative examples are graphed, such as phospho-histone H3 (pH3), epithelial
cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), phosphorylated Src (pSRC), and phosphorylated glycogen
synthase kinase 3P (pGSK3b). (Fig. 6B) Nonspecific binding was much higher with methanol
permeabilization.
     [00581      Figs. 7A-7B are experimental data showing comparison of unmodified antibodies to
DNA-antibody conjugates. (Fig. 7A) Antibody-DNA conjugates show good correlation against
unconjugated, native antibodies, as determined by flow cytometry. Experiments were performed on
multiple cell lines. A representative example is shown with a head-to-head comparison of multiple
antibodies on the human SKOV3 cell line (R2 = 0.92). (Fig. 7B) Protein expression detected in
different cell lysates showed similar patterns of expression whether detected by unmodified
antibodies or DNA conjugates. This held true for p53 and phospho-S6RP (immunoblotting), and
Ki67 (dot blot).
     [00591      Figs. 8A-8C show validation data of DNA-antibody conjugates. (Fig. 8A)
Concordance between two different antibody clones of EpCAM (MOC-31 and 158206) when
conjugated to separate DNA barcodes. The antibodies were assayed across multiple patient samples
(n=22). (Fig. 8B) Antibody expression was measured when cell lines were stained with a single
antibody as compared to a cocktail (80+ antibodies). Data were collected from 5 antibodies (CD44,
EGFR, 53BP1, p-S6RP, rabbit IgG) on 3 different human cell lines (MDA-MB-23 1, MDA-MB-436,
and A43 1). The experiment was repeated in duplicate and each data point corresponds to one marker
on a given cell line. Expression measurements were calculated by normalized DNA counts for the
same number of cells. (Fig. 8C) Changes in marker expression before and after treatment were
assayed and quantified using both the method in the Examples (ABCD platform) and an independent
immunofluorescence screen (standard error is shown from biological triplicate).
     [00601      Fig. 9 is a set of graphs showing that protein marker expression correlates with flow
cytometry. Multiple markers (CD44, Her2, EGFR, CA19-9, Keratin 7, and Muc 1) were screened
across multiple cell lines (SK-OV-3, ES-2, OVCA429, UCI-107, UCI-101, TOV-1 12D, TOV-21G,
and A2780). Each data point represents expression derived from NanoString DNA counts or flow
cytometry for a particular cell line. Expression values were normalized by housekeeping proteins
                                                    15

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
GAPDH, tubulin, and actin. Cell lines with measurements below that of the negative control (IgG
antibodies) either on flow cytometry or Nanostring were excluded. These measurements were
compared to independently performed flow cytometry measurements, which were calculated from
the mean fluorescence intensity (signal/background), where the background was the secondary
antibody without the primary antibody. The inset shows the log-log plot of the data.
     [00611      Figs. 10A-10C are experimental data on detection sensitivity using a human
epidermal cancer cell line. (Fig. 1OA) A bulk sample of 500,000cells from the epidermoid carcinoma
cell line A431 was lysed and processed as shown in Figs. 1A-IC. Dilutions corresponding to 5, 15,
and 50 cells were then compared to the bulk measurement. (Fig. bOB) Correlation values for single
A431 cells selected by micromanipulation are compared to the bulk measurements (500,000 cells).
(Fig. 1OC) Protein expression profiles (log2 expression values) of four single cells compared with
the bulk sample. Correlations were highly significant when comparing all single cells to bulk
measurements (P < .000 1, paired t test; GraphPad Prism 6.0).
     [0062]      Figs. IA-I1B are experimental data showing single-cell variability in treated and
untreated A431 cells. (Fig. 11A) Single cell measurements in human A431 cell lines that were either
treated or untreated with the EGFR inhibitor gefitinib were clustered based on a correlation metric
(MatLab). (Fig. I1B) Pairwise t-tests for four markers (FDR    = 0.1, ***P < 0.001, GraphPad Prism),
are shown. Markers that were most significant are shown, as well as phosphor-EGFR, which is the
primary target of gefitinib inhibition. The distribution between signals from untreated cells (blue)
and treated cells (yellow) are shown. Each point represents expression levels calculated from a
single cell, and the mean and standard deviation are shown in the box plot.
     [00631      Figs. 12A-12B show experimental data based on a single-cell protein analysis in a
patient sample. An FNA was obtained from a patient with biopsy-proven lung adenocarcinoma.
(Fig. 12A) Eleven harvested cells were analyzed individually, and protein expression levels in each
cell (y axis) were correlated with expression levels from the bulk tumor sample (x axis). Each data
point represents the expression for a given marker (n = 85markers, 3 below detection threshold).
(Fig. 12B) Spearman R correlation coefficient values for each of the single cells in (Fig. 12A)
relative to each other and to the bulk measurement.
     [0064]      Fig. 13 shows interpatient heterogeneity in lung cancer. FNAs were obtained from
six patients with biopsy-proven lung adenocarcinoma, and bulk samples (~100 cells each) were
processed as shown in Figs. 1A-IC with 88 barcoded antibodies. Expression data were log2
normalized by row to show differences between each patient. Expression profiles were
heterogeneous despite the identical histological type: Upon genetic analysis, patients 1 and 2 had
EGFR exon 19 amplification and T790M mutations, patient 3 had an exon 20 EGFR mutation,
                                                    16

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
patient 4 had an EGFR L858R mutation and an additional BRAF mutation, patient 5 had a KRAS
mutation, and patient 6 had an EML4-ALK translocation.
     [00651       Figs. 14A-14B show experimental data on effect of different therapies on protein
expression profiles in MDA-MB-436 triple-negative breast cancer cell line. (Fig. 14A) MDA-MB
436 cells were treated with different agents, and marker proteins were measured. Unsupervised
hierarchical clustering based on Euclidean distance grouped drug treatments by their mechanisms of
action (molecularly targeted versus DNA damaging) and primary targets [EGFR for
gefitinib/cetuximab and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)/PI3K for PKI-587]. Data show the
log2 fold change of marker expression in treated compared to untreated cells for n = 84 markers. All
experiments were performed in triplicate. (Fig. 14B) Correlating drug sensitivity of four different
cell lines with proteomic profile changes after treatment with cisplatin and olaparib. IC50 values
(black bars) were calculated on the basis of viability curves (Fig. 15A). The cell profile change after
treatment is represented by the number of significant markers (gray bars) that were identified by a
pairwise t test of treated versus untreated samples (FDR = 0.1).
     [00661       Figs. 15A-15E are graphs showing protein marker changes correlate with drug
sensitivity. Human ovarian carcinoma (A2780, OVCAR429) and breast cancer (MDA-MB-436,
MDA-MB-23 1) cell lines react differently to chemotherapy. Those with increased sensitivity to a
drug are expected to show a greater degree of change in their cell profiles. (Fig. 15A) Sensitivity
was determined by IC50 values calculated from MTS viability curves in biological triplicate for each
cell line as shown. Exact values and the fit of the viability curves were determined by GraphPad
Prism 5.0 (dose-response curve). (Fig. 15B) Data of a control study where cell lines were treated
with cetuximab, which resulted in drug inhibition. (Figs. 15C-15E) Changes across a selected panel
of several DNA damage markers (pH2A.X, Ku8O, pChk2, pChhkl), apoptosis markers (cleaved
PARP, cleaved caspase 7), and other mechanisms commonly associated with platinum treatment
(pERK, Bim). Data are means ± SEM, performed in triplicate.
     [00671       Figs. 16A-16D show that taxol treatment and dose response screens in human
HT1080 cells in vitro. (Fig. 16A) Select marker changes from dose response taxol treatment are
displayed with DNA barcoding profiles with standard error from biological duplicate. (Fig. 16B)
EC50 values from the dose response curves are displayed along with R 2 values. (Fig. 16C) Markers
that significantly differed from untreated (pairwise multiple t-test, FDR = 0.2) were shown to have a
dose-dependent response to taxol treatment. (Fig. 16D) The markers that significantly different
between untreated and treated conditions are shown in a venn diagram. CDCP1 was significantly
different at all doses.
     [00681       Figs. 17A-17B show expression profilings of various cancer patients for monitoring
and predicting treatment response in patients receiving P13K inhibitors. (Fig. 17A) Profiles of five
                                                    17

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
drug-naive cancer patients are shown with clustering based on correlation metrics with weighted
linkage. The dotted box shows the cluster including the marker that best separated responders and
nonresponders (H3K79me2). Other markers in the cluster include pS6RP (a downstream target of
P13K), pH2A.X (DNA damage marker), PARP (DNA repair protein), and 4EBP1 (protein
translation). (Fig. 17B) Four patients with biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma were treated with PI3Ki,
and primary cancers were biopsied before and after treatment. The heat map is a pre-post treatment
difference map showing log2 fold changes in protein expression (normalized by row to highlight
differences between patients). Patient segregation is by correlation distance metric (weighted
linkage). The patient in the third column received a higher dose of the PI3Ki (400 mg, twice daily)
than the patient in the fourth column (150 mg, twice daily).
     [00691       Figs. 18A-18B are block diagrams showing exemplary systems for use in the
methods described herein, e.g., for multiplexed detection of target molecules in a sample.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [00701       Immunohistochemistry-based clinical diagnoses generally require invasive core
biopsies and use a limited number of protein stains to identify and classify cancers. Fine-needle
aspirates (FNAs) employ thin needles to obtain cells from tumor masses and the procedure is thus
minimally invasive. While FNAs can give tremendous insight into malignancy, the number of cells
in the FNAs is so small (compared to core biopsy) that current technologies for protein analysis,
such as immunohistochemistry, are insufficient. Embodiments of various aspects described herein
are, in part, based on the development of a scalable method that not only allows analysis of a
plurality of proteins from a limited amount of sample, e.g., FNAs, but also preserves genetic material
from the same sample to enable simultaneous measurements of proteins and genetic materials (e.g.,
DNA, RNA, epigenetic and microRNAs). In one embodiment, the method relies on DNA-barcoded
antibody sensing, where barcodes-single strands of DNA- can be photocleaved and detected using
fluorescent complementary probes without any amplification steps, and is referred to as an antibody
barcoding with photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform herein. Unlike the protein detection method
described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. US 2011/0086774, the DNA barcode and the antibody that the
inventors developed is coupled together through a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker, not a
hybridizable linker that is reversibly hybridized (e.g., by basepairing) to a portion of the DNA
barcode. In addition, detection of a target protein is based on binding of a single DNA-barcoded
antibody to the target protein, which is different from the protein detection method described in U.S.
Pat. App. Pub. No. US 2011/0086774, where two antibodies (one for immobilization to a solid
substrate, e.g., a bead, and another for detection purpose) are required for binding to different
regions of the target protein.
                                                    18

     WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
      [00711     To demonstrate the capability of the ABCD platform, inventors isolated cancer cells
within the FNAs of patients and exposed these cells to a mixture of about 90 DNA-barcoded
antibodies, covering the hallmark processes in cancer (for example, apoptosis and DNA damage).
The inventors discovered that the single-cell protein analysis of the patients' FNAs showed high
intratumor heterogeneity, indicating the ability of the ABCD platform to perform protein profiling
on rare single cells, including, but not limited to circulating tumor cells. Further, the inventors
discovered that patients who showed identical histopathology yet showed patient heterogeneity in
proteomic profiling, indicating the ability of the ABCD platform to identify personalized targets for
treatment. By profiling and clustering protein expression in patients' samples, the inventors also
showed use of the ABCD platform to monitor and predict treatment response in patients receiving
chemotherapy, e.g., kinase inhibitors. The ABCD platform for generating a protein profiling is
scalable and can be extended to detect other target molecules, e.g., metabolites and lipids. Not only
can the ABCD platform measure protein quantitatively, but the ABCD platform can also enable
simultaneous measurements of at least 90 different proteins or more (e.g., about 100-200 different
proteins) in a single sample. Further, because of the high sensitivity of the ABCD platform, the
ABCD platform can enable detection of rare proteins, e.g., proteins that are not generally highly
expressed, or not easily accessible or extracted, such as intracellular proteins. Accordingly, various
aspects described herein provide for methods, systems and kits for detecting and/or quantifying a
plurality of target molecules from a sample, as well as their uses thereof in various applications, e.g.,
diagnosis, prognosis, personalized treatment, and/or treatment monitoring.
Methodsfor detecting or quantifying a pluralityof target molecules in a sample
      [0072]     In one aspect, provided herein is a method for detecting a plurality of target
molecules in a sample. The method comprises (a) contacting a sample with a composition
comprising a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises: (i) a
target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a target molecule or a distinct target molecule in
the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and
(iii) a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification nucleotide
sequence; (b) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the bound target probes; and (c)
detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are
distinguishable for the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding
target-binding molecules and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
      [00731     In some embodiments where each target probe in the plurality binds to a distinct
target molecule, no two target probes in the plurality binds to different regions of the same target
molecule.
                                                     19

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
     [00741      Stated another way, the method comprises: (a) forming a plurality of complexes in a
sample, each complex comprising a target molecule and a target probe bound thereto, wherein the
target probe comprises (i) a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to the target molecule
present in the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding
molecule; and (iii) a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification
nucleotide sequence; (b) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the complex; and (c)
detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are
distinguishable for the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding
target-binding molecules and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample. In some
embodiments, the cleavable linker is not pre-hybridized (e.g., by basepairing) to any portion of the
identified nucleotide sequences.
     [00751      In some embodiments, e.g., cell assay, each complex comprising a target molecule
and a target probe bound thereto does not require two or more target probes of different kinds bound
to the same target molecule, where each of the target probes binds to a different region of the same
target molecule. For example, unlike the protein detection method described in the U.S. Pat. App.
No. US 2011/0086774, each complex described herein does not require both a first target probe
binding to a first region of a target molecule, and a second target probe binding to a second region of
the same target molecule. Stated another way, in some embodiments, a single target probe as
described herein binding to a target molecule is sufficient for enablement of the methods described
herein. In these embodiments, the method described herein does not require another target probe
binding to the same target molecule for attachment to a solid substrate (e.g., a bead), e.g., as
described in the U.S. Pat. App. No. US 2011/0086774.
     [00761      In various embodiments of different aspects described herein, the cleavable linker
does not comprise a polynucleotide sequence (e.g., a single-stranded polynucleotide sequence) that
is complementary (for basepairing) to at least a portion of the identification nucleotide sequence.
That is, in these embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequence is not released from the
complex by detaching from the complementary polynucleotide sequence coupled to a target-binding
molecule. Accordingly, in some embodiments, a target probe comprises (i) a target-binding molecule
that specifically binds to the target molecule present in the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide
sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker
between the target-binding molecule and the identification nucleotide sequence.
     [00771       "Target probes" is described in detail in the following "Target Probes" section.
     [00781      In some embodiments, the method can further comprise separating unbound target
probes from target probes that are bound to the target molecules in the sample.
                                                    20

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
     [00791      As used herein, the term "bound target probes" refers to target probes binding to
target molecules in a sample.
     [00801      In some embodiments, the method can further comprise, prior to contacting the
sample with target probes, separating target cells from interfering cells in the sample. Methods to
separate target cells from interfering cells are known in the sample, e.g., based on cell surface
proteins that distinguish target cells from interfering cells. By way of example only, target cells or
interfering cells can be labeled with ligands that target specific cells of interests (e.g., cell-specific
antibodies). In some embodiments where the cell-specific ligands are fluorescently labeled, the
labeled cells can then be sorted, e.g., by flow cytometry. Alternatively, if the cell-specific ligands are
attached to magnetic particles, the labeled cells with bound magnetic particles can be isolated from
the sample by magnetic separation. In some embodiments, the cell sorting or selection can be
performed in a microfluidic device. In some embodiments, methods for isolating target cells or
interfering cells from a sample as described in the International Pat. App. No. WO 2013/078332, the
content of which are incorporated herein by reference, can be used in combination with the methods
described herein.
     [00811      Target cells can be prokaryotic or eukaryotic (including microbes such as bacteria,
fungi, virus and/or pathogens). In some embodiments, the target cells can comprise normal cells,
diseased cells, mutant cells, germ cells, somatic cells, and/or rare cells. Example of rare cells
include, without limitations, circulating tumor cells, fetal cells, stem cells, immune cells, clonal cells,
and any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the target cells can comprise tumor cells. In
some embodiments, the tumor cells can be derived from a tissue biopsy, a fine aspirate or a liquid
biopsy (e.g., peritoneal, pleural, cerebrospinal fluid, and/or blood), a mucosal swap, a skin biopsy, a
stool sample, or any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, whole cells and/or cell lysates can
be analyzed by the methods described herein to detect a plurality of target molecules in a sample. In
some embodiments, the whole cells can be obtained from a fixed cell or tissue sample.
     [0082]      Exemplary target molecules which can be detected by the methods described herein
include, but are not limited to proteins, peptides, metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth
factors, hormones, cytokines, cells, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the target
molecules to be detected can be extracellular or secreted molecules. In some embodiments, the target
molecules to be detected can be intracellular, e.g., cytoplasmic molecules or nuclear molecules.
     [00831      To detect intracellular molecules (e.g., intracellular proteins), the target cells in the
sample can be permeabilized or lysed (e.g., with a lysis buffer or a surfactant) such that target probes
can contact the target intracellular molecules for further processing and analysis. In some
embodiments, the lysis buffer can comprise a protease. An exemplary protease is a protease K.
                                                     21

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00841      The identification nucleotide sequences can be released from the bound target probes
using any methods known in the art, depending on the types of the cleavable linkers. In some
embodiments, the cleavable linker does not comprise a polynucleotide sequence (e.g., a single
stranded polynucleotide sequence) that is complementary (for basepairing) to at least a portion of the
identification nucleotide sequence. That is, in these embodiments, the identification nucleotide
sequence is not released from the complex by detaching from the complementary polynucleotide
sequence (hybridizable linker) coupled to a target-binding molecule. Cleavable, non-hybridizable
linkers are known in the art, of which examples include, but are not limited to the ones that are
sensitive to an enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g.,
dithiothreitol), or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the cleavable linker can be
sensitive to light and enzyme degradation.
     [00851      In some embodiments where a photocleavable linker is used, the identification
nucleotide sequences can be released from the bound target probes by exposing the bound target
probes to a light of a specified wavelength. In some embodiments, ultraviolet light can be used to
release identification nucleotide sequences from bound target probes.
     [00861      The signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences can be detected by
various methods known in the art, including, but not limited to sequencing, quantitative polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed (PCR), mass cytometry, fluorophore-inactivated multiplexed
immunofluorescence, hybridization-based methods, fluorescence hybridization-based methods,
imaging, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences can be determined by electrophoresis-based methods. In some
embodiments, the signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences are not determined
by electrophoresis-based methods. Gel electrophoresis-based methods are generally not as
quantitative or sensitive as other detection methods described herein such as PCR, fluorescence
hybridization-based methods, and nanoString nCounter@ hybridization technology, for example, as
described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,415,102, and Geiss et al. Nature Biotechnology. 2008. 26(3): 317-325,
the contents of each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Thus, gel electrophoresis-based
methods do not necessarily have required sensitivity for detection of rare proteins, e.g., proteins that
are not generally highly-expressed, or not easily accessible or extracted, such as intracellular
proteins. In addition, limited size resolution on gels can limit simultaneous measurements of a large
number (e.g., more than 5 or more than 10) of different target molecules, as compared to other
detection methods described herein such as PCR, fluorescence hybridization-based methods, and
nanoString nCounter@ hybridization technology, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. No.
8,415,102, and Geiss et al. Nature Biotechnology. 2008. 26(3): 317-325, the contents of each of
which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                    22

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
     [00871      The nature of the signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences can
vary with choice of detection methods and/or detectable labels. In some embodiments, the signals
from the released identification nucleotide sequences can be detected by hybridization-based
methods. For example, in some embodiments, the method can further comprise, prior to detecting
the signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences, coupling the released identification
nucleotide sequences to a detection composition comprising a plurality of reporter probes. Each
reporter probe in the plurality can comprise (i) a first target probe-specific region that is capable of
binding a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) a detectable label that
identifies the reporter probe. In these embodiments, signals from the respective detectable labels of
the reporter probes that are coupled to the released identification nucleotide sequences can be
detected accordingly. Since the signals are distinguishable for each respective reporter probes that
are bound to the identification nucleotide sequences, target-binding molecules can be
correspondingly identified, thereby detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
Additional information of "reporter probes" will be found in the following "Reporter Probes"
section.
     [00881      In some embodiments, the detection composition used in the methods described
herein can additionally comprise a plurality of capture probes as described herein. Additional
information of capture probes will be found in the "Capture Probes" section below.
     [00891      In some embodiments, the method selected to detect signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences does not require amplification of the released identification
nucleotide sequences, first target probe-specific region, or the second target probe-specific region.
Amplification-free detection methods can minimize any bias or errors introduced during
amplification, e.g., due to varying amplification efficiencies among the nucleotide sequences.
     [0090]      In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences can be detected by
nanoString nCounter@ hybridization technology, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. No.
8,415,102, and Geiss et al. Nature Biotechnology. 2008. 26(3): 317-325, the contents of each of
which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0091]      Typically, signals detected from the identification nucleotide sequences of the target
probes corresponding to target molecules can be compared to a control reference to account for any
non-specific binding. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the composition added to the sample can
further comprise a plurality of control probes. Each control probe in the plurality can comprise: (i) a
control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the sample; (ii) an
identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable
linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification control sequence. The control
binding molecule can bind to a control protein present in a sample. Non-limiting examples of control
                                                    23

    WO 2014/200767                                                                     PCT/US2014/040731
proteins include housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding
proteins, and any combinations thereof
     [0092]       Signals from the control probes can then be used to threshold the signals from the
target probes. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the method can further comprise thresholding the
target signals. In some embodiments, the target signals can be thresholded on the basis of
nonspecific binding. For example, in some embodiments, the threshold can be determined by using
standard deviation and measurement error from at least one or more control proteins. The threshold
is generally set to be greater than that of the signals from the non-specific binding. In some
embodiments, the threshold can be at least 50% or more (including, e.g., at least 60%, at least 70%,
at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or higher) greater than that of the signals from the non
specific binding. In some embodiments, the threshold can be at least 1.1-fold or more (including,
e.g., at least 1.2-fold, at least 1.3-fold, at least 1.4-fold, at least 1.5-fold, at least 2-fold, or higher)
greater than that of the signals from the non-specific binding.
     [00931       In some embodiments, the method can further comprise quantifying the signals (e.g.,
signals that are above the pre-determined threshold) by normalizing the signals associated with the
target probes by the signals associated with the control probes. In some embodiments, the signals
can be analyzed and expressed as number of identification nucleotide sequences per target-binding
molecule (or target molecule).
     [0094]       In some embodiments, the methods described herein can complement other art
recognized single-cell proteomic techniques. Exemplary single-cell proteomic techniques include,
e.g., mass cytometry and fluorophore-inactivated multiplexed immunofluorescence. See, e.g.,
Bendall et al. Science 332, 687-696 (2011) and Gerdes et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 110,
11982-11987 (2013) for additional information about single-cell mass cytometry and fluorophore
inactivated multiplexed immunofluorescence.
     [00951       In some embodiments, the methods, systems and kits described herein can enable
measurements of at least two target molecules of different types. For example, the methods, systems,
and kits described herein can be used to measure, for example, nucleic acid molecules and proteins,
or proteins and metabolites, or proteins and lipids. The measurements of at least two target
molecules of different types can be performed simultaneously or sequentially.
     [00961       By way of example only, the methods, systems and kits described herein applied to a
sample can preserve genetic materials in a sample while detecting other non-genetic target materials
in the same sample. This is one of the advantages over existing non-genetic (e.g., proteomic)
analysis methods such as flow cytometry and mass cytometry, which generally require an entire cell
to measure non-genetic target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins). Accordingly, following
the non-genetic (e.g., proteomic) measurements, the entire cell including its genetic material is lost.
                                                        24

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
In flow cytometry, the cell is lost as it goes through the flow chamber to detect fluorescence; in mass
cytometry, the cellular sample is vaporized, destroying any genetic material that may be available.
Cell vaporization in mass cytometry results in destruction of~60 % of the sample even for proteomic
detection let alone recovery genetic material.
     [00971       In contrast, the methods and/or systems presented herein employ an identification
nucleotide sequence (which comprises nucleotides) as a tag or barcode to label and/or measure non
genetic target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins). Thus, the methods and/or systems
described herein ensure that any nucleotide-containing materials (e.g., identification nucleotide
sequences and even genetic material extracted from cells) will not be destroyed. As such, in one
embodiment, the methods to perform simultaneous measurements on the identification nucleotide
sequences (barcodes for identification of non-genetic target molecules, e.g., but not limited to
proteins) as well as cells' genetic material of interest (including, but not limited to DNA, RNA,
microRNAs, long non-coding RNAs, etc.) are essentially the same, except that the complementary
probe set (comprising reporter probes and optionally capture probes) has to be expanded to detect
not only the identification nucleotide sequences to measure the non-genetic target molecules (e.g.,
but not limited to proteins), but also the genetic materials (e.g., but not limited to DNA/RNA) from
cells.
     [00981       Accordingly, in some embodiments, the methods, systems and/or kits described
herein for detection of non-genetic target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins) can be used in
combination with a nuclei acid analysis for genetic materials, for example, to study the non-genetic
target molecules (e.g., but not limited to proteins) that interact with genetic materials or genetic
regulatory elements. In these embodiments, the methods and systems described herein for detecting
a plurality of target molecules in a sample as described herein can further comprise extracting a
nucleic acid molecule from the same sample in which target molecules are to be detected. In some
embodiments, the methods and systems described herein can further comprise subjecting the
extracted nucleic acid molecule to a nucleic acid analysis. Various methods can be used for nucleic
acid analysis, including, but not limited to sequencing, next generation sequencing, quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed (PCR), DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing, de novo
sequencing, next-generation sequencing such as massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS),
polony sequencing, pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, ion
semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single molecule sequencing, single
molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing, nanopore DNA sequencing, sequencing by hybridization,
sequencing with mass spectrometry, microfluidic Sanger sequencing, microscopy-based sequencing
techniques, RNA polymerase (RNAP) sequencing, fluorescence hybridization-based technology
                                                     25

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
(e.g., but not limited to nanoString nCounter@ technology), any art-recognized nucleic acid
detection methods, or any combinations thereof
     [0099]      In some embodiments, after a sample and/or non-genetic target molecules have been
labeled with a plurality of target probes described herein, the identification nucleotide sequences of
the target probes can be released from the bound non-genetic target molecules simultaneously with
extraction of nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) from the same labeled sample. In these
embodiments, both the nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) of interest and the
identification nucleotide sequences can be detected simultaneously in a single sample mixture. In
one embodiment, both the nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) of interest and the
identification nucleotide sequences can be detected simultaneously in a single sample mixture using
nanoString nCounter@ analysis system, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,415,102, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference. In this embodiment, once the nucleic acid
molecules (genetic materials) from cells and the released identification nucleotide sequences are in
solution, the solution mixture can be contacted with probe sets comprising both reporter probes and
capture probes as described herein for the identification nucleotide sequences as well as for the cell's
nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) of interest. One of the advantages of using
nanoString nCounter@ hybridization technology is that the analysis can be done on cell lysates, as
well as on fixed samples, without the need for amplification that can introduce bias, and with
minimal hands-on time preparation. However, other art-recognized methods for nucleic acid
analyses or genetic analysis as described herein (e.g., but not limited to sequencing) can also be used
for simultaneous detection of both nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) of interest and
released identification nucleotide sequences from bound non-genetic target molecules. For example,
in the case of sequencing, both the cells' genetic materials (e.g., DNA and/or mRNA) and the
identification nucleotide sequences corresponding non-genetic target molecules can be sequenced
together.
     [00100]     In alternative embodiments, nucleic acid molecules can be extracted from a first
portion of a sample, while non-genetic target molecules can be independently derived or obtained
from a second portion of the same sample. In these embodiments, the nucleic acid molecules of
interest and the non-genetic target molecules can be detected separately to determine expression
levels of the nucleic acid molecules of interest and non-genetic target molecules in the same sample.
The nucleic acid molecules of interests can be subjected to any art-recognized nucleic acid analysis,
while the non-genetic target molecules can be detected through detecting and identifying the
corresponding identification nucleotide sequences released from the target probes using the methods,
systems and/or kits described herein.
                                                   26

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00101]      In some embodiments, the methods, systems and/or kits described herein can be
adapted to measure proteins and nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) present in the same
sample. For example, the proteins can be labeled by one or more embodiments of the target probes
described herein and detected using the methods, systems and/or kits described herein, while the
nucleic acid molecules (cells' genetic materials) can be detected separately or simultaneously by any
methods known in the art (e.g., using, in one embodiment, nanoString nCounter@ gene expression
kit), e.g., for a multi-analyte assay on the same sample. In one embodiment, the sample can comprise
cancer cells. The multi-analyte assay can enable generation of an integrated expression profiling for
the sample, which can provide information on interaction between the proteins and the nucleic acid
molecules, e.g., genetic regulatory elements such as microRNAs. This would be valuable or
desirable in cases where rare samples with only limited sample size are available. For example, after
labeling a sample or cells or non-genetic target molecules (e.g., proteins) with the target probes each
comprising an unique identification nucleotide sequence (where in one embodiment, the
identification nucleotide sequences are alien or foreign DNA barcodes), the identification nucleotide
sequences (e.g., alien or foreign DNA barcodes) can then be released from the bound cells or target
molecules (e.g., proteins) simultaneously with nucleic acid molecules (e.g., RNA and/or DNA) from
the same sample or cells, e.g., using lysis buffer with or without additional cleaving agents (e.g., but
not limited to, UV and/or chemical agents). Once the nucleic acid molecules (e.g., RNA and/or
DNA) from the cells and unique identification nucleotide sequences (e.g., alien DNA barcodes) are
in solution, a hybridization assay can be performed. In one embodiment, the hybridization assay can
be nanoString nCounter @ analysis assay. In the nCounter@ analysis assay, the probe sets can have
both reporter probes and capture probes as described herein for the identification nucleotide
sequences (e.g., alien DNA barcodes) as well as for the genes of interest. If sample size is not a
concern, a sample can be aliquoted or split such that the protein assay and gene expression assay can
be run separately to get a readout of both mRNA and protein on the same sample (e.g., a certain
population of cells).
     [00102]      In some embodiments, to optimize the nanoString nCounter@ hybridization
technology for detection of identification nucleotide sequences and/or cells' genetic materials, one
can, for example, make sure that all the probes fall into a linear range when counting them in bulk
and expression of one does not saturate the system. This can readily be done with optimization by
one of skill in the art depending on the kit of interest.
     [00103]      In another embodiment, by releasing identification nucleotide sequences from bound
target molecules (e.g., proteins), genetic material and the identification nucleotide sequences can be
concurrently extracted from a single sample, enabling analyses of protein-DNA-RNA
interrelationships.
                                                     27

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
     [00104]      While the methods described herein are described in the context where the
identification nucleotide sequences are released from bound target probes before detection, in some
embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences do not need to be released from the bound
target probes. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the methods described herein can also apply
when the identification nucleotide sequences remain bound to target probes during detection.
     [00105]      In certain embodiments, the methods of detection are performed in multiplex assays,
whereby a plurality of target molecules are detected in the same assay (a single reaction mixture). In
a one embodiment, the assay is a hybridization assay in which the plurality of target molecules are
detected simultaneously. In certain embodiments, the plurality of target molecules detected in the
same assay is, at least 2 different target molecules, at least 5 different target molecules, at least 10
different target molecules, at least 20 different target molecules, at least 50 different target
molecules, at least 75 different target molecules, at least 100 different target molecules, at least 200
different target molecules, at least 500 different target molecules, or at least 750 different target
molecules, or at least 1000 different target molecules. In other embodiments, the plurality of target
molecules detected in the same assay is up to 50 different target molecules, up to 100 different target
molecules, up to 150 different target molecules, up to 200 different target molecules, up to 300
different target molecules, up to 500 different target molecules, up to 750 different target molecules,
up to 1000 different target molecules, up to 2000 different target molecules, or up to 5000 different
target molecules. In yet other embodiments, the plurality of target molecules detected is any range in
between the foregoing numbers of different target molecules, such as, but not limited to, from 20 to
50 different target molecules, from 50 to 200 different target molecules, from 100 to 1000 different
target molecules, or from 500 to 5000 different target molecules.
Targetprobes
     [00106]      As used herein, the term "target probe" generally refers to a synthetic molecule that
specifically binds to a target molecule for identification and detection. In accordance with various
aspects described herein, each target probe comprises: (i) a target-binding molecule that specifically
binds to a target molecule in a sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the
target-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the
identification nucleotide sequence.
     [00107]      In some embodiments, the cleavable linker does not comprise a polynucleotide
sequence (e.g., a single-stranded polynucleotide sequence) that is complementary (for basepairing)
to at least a portion of the identification nucleotide sequence. That is, in these embodiments, the
identification nucleotide sequence is not released from a target-binding molecule by detaching from
the complementary polynucleotide sequence coupled to the target-binding molecule. Accordingly, in
                                                     28

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
some embodiments, a target probe comprises (i) a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to
the target molecule present in the sample; (ii) an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the
target-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker between the target-binding
molecule and the identification nucleotide sequence.
     [00108]     Target-binding molecules: A target-binding molecule is a molecule that specifically
binds to target molecule in a sample. As used herein, the term "specifically bind(s)" or "specific
binding" refers to a target binding molecule that binds to a target molecule with a greater affinity
than when it binds to other non-target molecule under the same conditions. Specific binding is
generally indicated by a dissociation constant of 1 pM or lower, e.g., 500 nM or lower, 400 nM or
lower, 300 nM or lower, 250 nM or lower, 200 nM or lower, 150 nM or lower, 100 nM or lower, 50
nM or lower, 40 nM or lower, 30 nM or lower, 20 nM or lower, 10 nM or lower, or 1 nM or lower.
Typically the nature of the interaction or binding is noncovalent, e.g., by hydrogen, electrostatic, or
van der Waals interactions, however, binding can also be covalent. Target-binding molecules can be
naturally-occurring, recombinant or synthetic. Examples of the target-binding molecule can include,
but are not limited to a nucleic acid, an antibody or a portion thereof, an antibody-like molecule, an
enzyme, an antigen, a small molecule, a protein, a peptide, a peptidomimetic, a carbohydrate, an
aptamer, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the target-binding molecule does not
include a nucleic acid molecule.
     [00109]    In some embodiments, the target-binding molecules can be modified by any means
known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Methods to modify each type of target-binding molecules
are well recognized in the art. Depending on the types of target-binding molecules, an exemplary
modification includes, but is not limited to genetic modification, biotinylation, labeling (for
detection purposes), chemical modification (e.g., to produce derivatives or fragments of the target
binding molecule), and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the target-binding
molecule can be genetically modified. In some embodiments, the target-binding molecule can be
biotinylated.
     [00110]    In some embodiments, the target-binding molecule can comprise an antibody or a
portion thereof, or an antibody-like molecule. An antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like
molecule can detect expression level of a cellular protein (including cell surface proteins, secreted
proteins, cytoplasmic proteins, and nuclear proteins), or phosphorylation or other post-translation
modification state thereof. In some embodiments, the antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like
molecule can specifically bind to a protein marker present in a rare cell. Examples of a rare cell
include, but are not limited to a circulating tumor cell, a fetal cell, and/or a stem cell. In some
embodiments, the antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like molecule can specifically bind to a
target marker or protein associated with a condition (e.g., a normal healthy state, or a disease or
                                                    29

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
disorder). In some embodiments, the antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like molecule can
specifically bind to a target marker or protein associated with cancer. For example, target markers or
proteins associated with cancer can be involved in apoptosis, epigenetic, DNA damage,
kinases/oncogenes, cancer diagnostic markers, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, autophagy,
proliferation, and/or immune response.
     [00111]     In some embodiments, the target-binding molecule can comprise a cell surface
receptor ligand. As used herein, a "cell surface receptor ligand" refers to a molecule that can bind to
the outer surface of a cell. Exemplary cell surface receptor ligand includes, for example, a cell
surface receptor binding peptide, a cell surface receptor binding glycopeptide, a cell surface receptor
binding protein, a cell surface receptor binding glycoprotein, a cell surface receptor binding organic
compound, and a cell surface receptor binding drug. Additional cell surface receptor ligands
include, but are not limited to, cytokines, growth factors, hormones, antibodies, and angiogenic
factors.
     [00112]     In some embodiments, the target-binding molecule comprises an antibody selected
from Table 1 in the Example, or a fragment thereof.
     [00113]     In some embodiments, the target-binding molecules of the target probes used in the
methods described herein can comprise at least a portion or all of the antibodies listed in Table 1 in
the Example, or fragments thereof.
     [00114]     Identification nucleotide sequences: As used herein, the term "identification
nucleotide sequence" refers to a nucleotide sequence that identifies a specific target-binding
molecule. Thus, each identification nucleotide sequence acts as a unique identification code for each
target-binding molecule to which it was coupled.
     [00115]     In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences have minimal or no
secondary structures such as any stable intra-molecular base-pairing interaction (e.g., hairpins).
Without wishing to be bound by theory, in some embodiments, the minimal secondary structure in
the identification nucleotide sequences can provide for better hybridization between a first portion of
the identification nucleotide sequence and the reporter probe, and/or between a second portion of the
identification nucleotide sequence and the capture probe. In addition, the minimal secondary
structure in the identification nucleotide sequence can provide for better binding of the target
binding molecule to the corresponding target molecule. In some embodiments, the identification
nucleotide sequences described herein have no significant intra-molecular pairing at a pre
determined annealing temperature. The pre-determined annealing temperature can range from about
65 'C- 80 'C or from about 70 'C- 80'C, or at about 70'C- 75'C.
     [00116]     In some embodiments, identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes
described herein can be selected or designed such that they do not cross-react with or bind to any
                                                   30

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
nucleic acid sequence in a genome of a subject whose sample is being evaluated. Thus, the
identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes used to detect target molecules in a subject's
sample can be selected or designed based on nucleotide sequences of a species or genus that share a
homology (sequence identity) with that of the subject by no more than 50% or less, including, e.g.,
no more than 40%, no more than 30%, no more than 20%, no more than 10% or less. In some
embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences can be pre-screened for no homology against
major organisms (e.g., but not limited to human and/or other mammals) in the NCBI Reference
Sequence (RefSeq) database. By way of example only, in some embodiments, the identification
nucleotide sequences of the target probes used in an animal's sample (e.g., a mammal such as a
human) can be derived from a plant genome. In one embodiment, the identification nucleotide
sequences of the target probes used in a human's sample can be derived from a potato genome. In
some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequence can comprise a sequence selected from
Table 2 (SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 110), or a fragment thereof.
     [00117]      Generally, identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes can have any
sequence length and can vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to
detection methods, and/or the number of target molecules to be detected. For example, in some
embodiments, the length of the identification nucleotide sequences can increase to provide sufficient
identification of a large number of target molecules in a sample. In some embodiments where a
hybridization-based method is used to detect identification nucleotide sequences, the identification
nucleotide sequences can have a length sufficient to provide reliable binding to complementary
reporter probes and/or capture probes and to generate detectable signals. In some embodiments, the
identification nucleotide sequences can have a length of about 30-150 nucleotides, or about 30-100
nucleotides, or about 50-100 nucleotides. In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide
sequences can have a length of at least about 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at
least 80, at least 90, at least 100 or more nucleotides. In some embodiments, the identification
nucleotide sequences can have a length of about 70 nucleotides.
     [00118]      In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences described herein can
have a fairly consistent melting temperature (Tm). Without wishing to be bound by theory, the Tm
of the identification nucleotide sequences described herein refers to the temperature at which 50% of
the oligonucleotide and its complement are in duplex. The consistent Tm among a population of the
identification nucleotide sequences allows for the synthesis and hybridization procedures to be
tightly optimized, as the optimal conditions are substantially the same for all spots and positions. In
some embodiments, the Tm of an identification nucleotide sequence when hybridized to its
complementary reporter probes and/or capture probes can be selected to minimize any potential
formation of secondary structures (e.g., hairpins) that could interfere with probe hybridization. In
                                                     31

    WO 2014/200767                                                                  PCT/US2014/040731
some embodiments, the Tm of an identification nucleotide sequence when hybridized to its
complementary reporter probes and/or capture probes can range from about 70-90'C, from about 75
850 C, or from about 79-82 0 C. In some embodiments, the Tm of an identification nucleotide
sequence when hybridized to its complementary reporter probes and/or capture probes can be at least
70'C, at least 75 0 C, at least 80'C, at least 850 C or higher. In some embodiments, the Tm of an
identification nucleotide sequence when hybridized to its complementary reporter probes and/or
capture probes can be about 80'C.
     [00119]      The GC content of the identification nucleotide sequences can vary depending on a
number of factors including, e.g., desired lengths of reporter probes and/or capture probes described
and/or desired Tm temperatures. For example, when the reporter and/or capture probes are shorter,
the GC content of the identification nucleotide sequences can be increased to maintain the desired
Tm consistent between the reporter and/or capture probes and identification nucleotide sequences to
minimize potential formation of secondary structures (e.g., hairpins) that could interfere with probe
hybridization. In one embodiment, the GC content of the identification nucleotide sequence is
optimized to maintain the Tm of an identification nucleotide sequence when hybridized to its
complementary reporter probes and/or capture probes to be about 80 'C.
     [00120]      In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences have a balanced GC
content. For example, in some embodiments, no single nucleotide in the identification nucleotide
sequence can run longer than 3nt. For example, no G nucleotide or C nucleotide runs longer than 3
nt in the identification nucleotide sequence. In one embodiment where the reporter and/or capture
probes have a length of about 35 nucleotides, the GC content can be optimized to maintain the Tm of
the corresponding identification nucleotide sequences to be about 80 'C; where the identification
nucleotide sequence should have a balanced GC content as much as possible to avoid local regions
of very high GC or poly C / poly G runs.
     [00121]      In some embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequences are DNA sequences.
     [00122]      Cleavable linkers: As used herein, the term "cleavable linker" refers to a linker
which is sufficiently stable under one set of conditions, but which is cleaved under a different set of
conditions to release the two parts the linker is holding together. In some embodiments, the
cleavable linker can be cleaved at least 1.5 times or more (including, e.g., at least 2 times, at least 3
times, at least 4 times, at least 5 times, at least 6 times, at least 7 times, at least 8 times, at least 9
times, at least 10 times, at least 20 times, at least 30 times, at least 40 times, at least 50 times or
more) faster under a first reference condition (e.g., with a cleaving agent) than under a second
reference condition (e.g., without a cleaving agent).
     [00123]      For example, a cleavable linker couples an identification nucleotide sequence and a
target-binding agent together under one set of conditions and can be cleaved, digested or degraded
                                                        32

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
under a different set of conditions to release the identification nucleotide sequence. The cleavable
linker coupling a target-binding molecule to an identification nucleotide sequence in a target probe
can control release of the identification nucleotide sequence from the target probe when needed, e.g.,
upon binding to a target molecule, such that the identification nucleotide can be released for
detection. Cleavable linkers are known in the art, of which examples include, but are not limited to
the ones that are sensitive to an enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical
agent (e.g., dithiothreitol), or any combination thereof In some embodiments, the cleavable linker
can be sensitive to light and protein degradation, e.g., by an enzyme.
     [00124]     Cleavable linkers are susceptible to cleavage agents, e.g., hydrolysis, pH, redox
potential, and light (e.g., infra-red, and/or UV) or the presence of degradative molecules. Examples
of such degradative agents include: redox agents which are selected for particular substrates or
which have no substrate specificity, including, e.g., oxidative or reductive enzymes or reductive
agents such as mercaptans, present in cells, that can degrade a redox cleavable linker by reduction;
esterases; amidases; endosomes or agents that can create an acidic environment, e.g., those that
result in a pH of five or lower; enzymes that can hydrolyze or degrade an acid cleavable linker by
acting as a general acid, peptidases (which can be substrate specific) and proteases, and
phosphatases. In some embodiments, the cleavable linker can be cleavable by a particular enzyme.
     [00125]     In some embodiments, the cleavable linker is a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker.
As used herein, the term "cleavable, non-hybridizable linker" refers to a cleavable linker as defined
earlier that does not comprise a polynucleotide sequence (e.g., a single-stranded polynucleotide
sequence) complementary (for basepairing) to at least a portion of the identification nucleotide
sequence described herein. That is, in these embodiments, the identification nucleotide sequence is
not released from the target-binding molecule by detaching from the complementary polynucleotide
sequence coupled to the target-binding molecule.
     [00126]     Exemplary cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers include, but are not limited to,
hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers (e.g., -S-S- and -C(R) 2 -S-S-, wherein R is H or Ci-C 6
alkyl and at least one R is Ci-C 6 alkyl such as CH 3 or CH 2 CH 3 ); phosphate-based cleavable linkers
(e.g., -O-P(O)(OR)-O-, -O-P(S)(OR)-O-, -O-P(S)(SR)-O-, -S-P(O)(OR)-O-, -O-P(O)(OR)-S-, -S
P(O)(OR)-S-, -O-P(S)(OR)-S-, -S-P(S)(OR)-O-, -O-P(O)(R)-O-, -O-P(S)(R)-O-, -S-P(O)(R)-O-, -S
P(S)(R)-O-, -S-P(O)(R)-S-, -O-P(S)( R)-S-,. -O-P(O)(OH)-O-, -O-P(S)(OH)-O-, -O-P(S)(SH)-O-,
S-P(O)(OH)-O-, -O-P(O)(OH)-S-, -S-P(O)(OH)-S-, -O-P(S)(OH)-S-, -S-P(S)(OH)-O-, -O-P(O)(H)
0-, -0-P(S)(H)-O-, -S-P(O)(H)-O-, -S-P(S)(H)-O-, -S-P(O)(H)-S-, and -0-P(S)(H)-S-, wherein R is
optionally substituted linear or branched C1-C1O alkyl); acid cleavable linkers (e.g., hydrazones,
esters, and esters of amino acids, -C=NN- and -OC(O)-); ester-based cleavable linkers
(e.g., -C(0)0-); peptide-based cleavable linkers, (e.g., linkers that are cleaved by enzymes such as
                                                     33

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
peptidases and proteases in cells, e.g., -NHCHRAC(O)NHCHRBC(O)-, where RA and RB are the R
groups of the two adjacent amino acids), photocleavable linkers and any combinations thereof. A
peptide based cleavable linker comprises two or more amino acids. In some embodiments, the
peptide-based cleavage linkage comprises the amino acid sequence that is the substrate for a
peptidase or a protease. In some embodiments, an acid cleavable linker is cleavable in an acidic
environment with a pH of about 6.5 or lower (e.g., about 6.5, 6.0, 5.5, 5.0, or lower), or by agents
such as enzymes that can act as a general acid.
     [00127]       In some embodiments, the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker can comprise a
disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a nitrobenzyl group, a
nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo hydroxyquinoline group, a
hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any combinations thereof
     [00128]       In some embodiments, the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker can comprise at least
one of the linkers shown in Fig. 2A.
     [00129]       In some embodiments, the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker can comprise a
photocleavable linker. A photocleavable linker is a linker that can be cleaved by exposure to
electromagnetic radiation (e.g., visible light, UV light, infrared, etc.). The wavelength of light
necessary to photocleave the linker is dependent upon the structure of the photocleavable linker
used. Any art-recognized photocleavable linker can be used for the target probes described herein.
Exemplary photocleavable linker include, but are not limited to, chemical molecules containing an
o-nitrobenzyl moiety, a p-nitrobenzyl moiety, a m-nitrobenzyl moiety, a nitoindoline moiety, a
bromo hydroxycoumarin moiety, a bromo hydroxyquinoline moiety, a hydroxyphenacyl moiety, a
dimethozybenzoin moiety, or any combinations thereof.
     [00130]       Additional exemplary photocleavable groups are generally described and reviewed in
Pelliccioli et al., Photoremovable protecting groups: reaction mechanisms and applications,
Photochem. Photobiol. Sci. 1 441 -458 (2002); Goeldner and Givens, Dynamic Studies in Biology,
Wiley-VCH, Weinheim (2005); Marriott, Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 291, Academic Press, San
Diego (1998); Morrison, Bioorganic Photochemistry, Vol. 2, Wiley, New York (1993); Adams and
Tsien, Annu. Rev. Physiol. 55 755-784 (1993); Mayer et al., Biologically Active Molecules with a
"Light Switch," Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 45 4900-4921 (2006); Pettit et al., Neuron 19 465-471
(1997); Furuta et al., Brominated 7- hydroxycoumarin-4-ylmethyls: Photolabile protecting groups
with biologically useful cross- sections for two photon photolysis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 1
193-1200 (1999); and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,430,175; 5,635,608; 5,872,243; 5,888,829; 6,043,065; and
Zebala, U.S. Patent Application No. 2010/0105120, the disclosures of which are incorporated by
reference herein.
                                                   34

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
     [00131]     In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can generally be described as a
chromophore. Examples of chromophores which are photoresponsive to such wavelengths include,
but are not limited to, acridines, nitroaromatics, and arylsulfonamides. The efficiency and
wavelength at which the chromophore becomes photoactivated and thus releases the identification
nucleotide sequences described herein will vary depending on the particular functional group(s)
attached to the chromophore. For example, when using nitroaromatics, such as derivatives of o
nitrobenzylic compounds, the absorption wavelength can be significantly lengthened by addition of
methoxy groups.
     [00132]     In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can comprise a nitro-aromatic
compound. Exemplary photocleavable linkers having an ortho-nitro aromatic core scaffold include,
but are not limited to, ortho-nitro benzyl ("ONB"), 1 -(2-nitrophenyl)ethyl ("NPE"), alpha- carboxy
2-nitrobenzyl ("CNB"), 4,5-dimethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl ("DMNB"), 1-(4,5-dimethoxy- 2
nitrophenyl)ethyl ("DMNPE"), 5-carboxymethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl ("CMNB") and ((5
carboxymethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl)oxy)carbonyl ("CMNCBZ") photolabile cores. It will be appreciated
that the substituents on the aromatic core are selected to tailor the wavelength of absorption, with
electron donating groups (e.g., methoxy) generally leading to longer wavelength absorption. For
example, nitrobenzyl ("NB") and nitrophenylethyl ("NPE") are modified by addition of two methoxy
residues into 4,5-dimethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl and 1 -(4,5- dimethoxy-2-nitrophenyl)ethyl, respectively,
thereby increasing the absorption wavelength range to 340-360 nm.
     [00133]     Further, other ortho-nitro aromatic core scaffolds include those that trap nitroso
byproducts in a hetero Diels Alder reaction as generally discussed in Zebala, U.S. Patent Application
No. 2010/0105120 and Pirrung et al., J. Org. Chem. 68: 1 138 (2003). The nitrodibenzofurane
("NDBF") chromophore offers an extinction coefficient significantly higher in the near UV region
but it also has a very high quantum yield for the deprotection reaction and it is suitable for two
photon activation (Momotake et al, The nitrodibenzofuran chromophore: a new caging group for
ultra-efficient photolysis in living cells, Nat. Methods 3 35-40 (2006)). The NPP group is an
alternative introduced by Pfleiderer et al. that yields a less harmful nitrostyryl species (Walbert et al.,
Photolabile Protecting Groups for Nucleosides: Mechanistic Studies of the 2-(2-Nitrophenyl)ethyl
Group, Helv. Chim. Acta 84 1601 -161 1 (2001)).
     [00134]     In exemplary embodiments involving UV light, the photocleavable linkers can be
selected from the group consisting of alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl (CNB, 260 nm), 1-(2
nitrophenyl)ethyl (NPE, 260 nm), 4,5-dimethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl (DMNB, 355 nm), 1-(4,5
dimethoxy-2-nitrophenyl)ethyl (DMNPE, 355 nm), (4,5-dimethoxy-2-nitrobenzoxy)carbony
(NVOC, 355 nm), 5-carboxymethoxy-2-nitrobenzyl (CMNB, 320 nm), ((5-carboxymethoxy- 2
                                                     35

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
nitrobenzyl)oxy)carbonyl (CMNCBZ, 320 nm), desoxybenzoinyl (desyl, 360 nm), and anthraquino
2-ylmethoxycarbonyl (AQMOC, 350 nm).
     [00135]     Other suitable photocleavable linkers are based on the coumarin system, such as
BHC (Furuta and Iwamura, Methods Enzymol. 291 50-63 (1998); Furuta et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA 96 1 193-1200 (1999); Suzuki et al., Org. Lett. 5:4867 (2003); U.S. Patent No. 6,472,541 ,
the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein). The DMACM linkage photocleaves in
nanoseconds (Hagen et al., [7-(Dialkylamino)coumarin-4-yl]methyl- Caged Compounds as Ultrafast
and Effective Long-Wavelength Phototriggers of 8-Bromo- Substituted Cyclic Nucleotides, Chem
Bio Chem 4 434-442 (2003)) and is cleaved by visible light (U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
11/402,715 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein). Coumarin-based photolabile
linkages are also available for linking to aldehydes and ketones (Lu et al., Bhc-diol as a photolabile
protecting group for aldehydes and ketones, Org. Lett. 5 2119-2122 (2003)). Closely related
analogues, such as BHQ, are also suitable (Fedoryak et al., Brominated hydroxyquinoline as a
photolabile protecting group with sensitivity to multiphoton excitation, Org. Lett. 4 3419-3422
(2002)). Another suitable photocleavable linker comprises the pHP group (Park and Givens, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 119:2453 (1997), Givens et al., New Phototriggers 9: p -Hydroxyphenacyl as a C
Terminal Photoremovable Protecting Group for Oligopeptides, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122 2687-2697
(2000); Zhang et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121 5625-5632, (1999); Conrad et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc.
122 9346-9347 (2000); Conrad et al., Org. Lett. 2 1545-1547 (2000)). A ketoprofen derived
photolabile linkage is also suitable (Lukeman et al., Carbanion-Mediated Photocages: Rapid and
Efficient Photorelease with Aqueous Compatibility, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127 7698-7699 (2005)).
     [00136]     In some embodiments, a photocleavable linker is one whose covalent attachment to
an identification nucleotide sequence and/or target-binding agent is reversed (cleaved) by exposure
to light of an appropriate wavelength. In some embodiments, release of the identification nucleotide
sequences occurs when the conjugate is subjected to ultraviolet light. For example, photorelease of
the identification nucleotide sequences can occur at a wavelength ranging from about 200 to 380 nm
(the exact wavelength or wavelength range will depend on the specific photocleavable linker used,
and can be, for example, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 260, 270, 280, 290, 300, 310, 320, 330, 340,
350, 360, 370, or 380 or some range therebetween). In some embodiments, release of the
identification nucleotide sequences occurs when the conjugate is subjected to visible light. For
example, photorelease of the identification nucleotide sequences can occur at a wavelength ranging
from about 380 to 780 nm (the exact wavelength or wavelength range will depend on the specific
photocleavable linker used, and could be, for example, 380, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750,
or 780, or some range therebetween). In some embodiments, release of the identification nucleotide
sequences occurs when the conjugate is subjected to infrared light. For example, photorelease of the
                                                   36

    WO 2014/200767                                                          PCT/US2014/040731
identification nucleotide sequences can occur at a wavelength ranging from about 780 to 1200 nm
(the exact wavelength or wavelength range will depend on the specific photocleavable linker used,
and could be for example, 780, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000, 1050, 1100, 1150, or 1200, or some range
therebetween).
     [00137]     In some embodiments, a photocleavable linker can be selected from the group
consisting of molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures of
the molecules (i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
     [ias
                         [I   imp                         l      i
                            neI, te p
                                                   37
                                   .44
      conecin poin is)abond
where each of the black dots in each molecule represents a connecting or coupling point that
connects, directly or indirectly, to a target-binding molecule described herein or an
indentification nucleotide sequence described herein. The connecting point can be a bond, or
comprise an atom, a molecule, and/or a linker described herein. In some embodiments, the
connecting point is a bond.
     [001381     In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can comprise the molecule (xiv).
     1001391     In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker is a photocleavable bifunctional
linker. In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker is a photocleavable multi-functional linker.
                                                   37

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00140]      In some embodiments where a photocleavable linker is used, the identification
nucleotide sequences can be released from the bound target probes by exposing the bound target
probes to a light of a specified wavelength. In some embodiments, ultraviolet (UV) light or near UV
light can be used to release identification nucleotide sequences from bound target probes. In some
embodiments, release of the identification nucleotide sequences can occur at a wavelength ranging
from about 200 nm to about 450 nm.
     [00141]      Activation agents can be used to activate the components to be conjugated together
(e.g., identification nucleotide sequences and/or target-binding molecules). Without limitations, any
process and/or reagent known in the art for conjugation activation can be used. Exemplary surface
activation method or reagents include, but are not limited to, 1-Ethyl-3-[3
dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC), hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT),
N-Hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), 2-(1 H-7-Azabenzotriazol- 1-yl)-- 1,1,3,3 -tetramethyl uronium
hexafluorophosphate methanaminium (HATU), silanization, sulfosuccinimidyl 6-[3'(2
[pyridyldithio)-propionamido] hexanoate (sulfo-LC-SPDP), 2-iminothiolane (Traut's agent), trans
cyclooctene N-hydroxy-succinimidyl ester (TCO-NHS), surface activation through plasma
treatment, and the like.
     [00142]      Again, without limitations, any art known reactive group can be used for coupling a
photocleavable linker between an identification nucleotide sequence and a target-binding molecule.
For example, various surface reactive groups can be used for surface coupling including, but not
limited to, alkyl halide, aldehyde, amino, bromo or iodoacetyl, carboxyl, hydroxyl, epoxy, ester,
silane, thiol, and the like.
Controlprobes
     [00143]      As used herein, the term "control probe" generally refers to a synthetic molecule that
specifically binds to a control molecule for identification and detection. In accordance with various
aspects described herein, each control probe comprises: (i) a control-binding molecule that
specifically binds to a control molecule in a sample; (ii) an identification control sequence that
identifies the control-binding molecule; and (iii) a cleavable linker between the control-binding
molecule and the identification control sequence.
     [00144]       Control-binding molecules: A control-binding molecule is a molecule that
specifically binds to a control molecule in a sample. Examples of a control protein include, but are
not limited to, housekeeping proteins (e.g., GAPDH, actin and/or tubulin), control IgG isotypes,
mutant non-functional or non-binding proteins (e.g., nonfunctional or non-binding antibodies, or
mutated proteins such as a protein G that has been mutated at the binding site), and any
combinations thereof. Typically the nature of the interaction or binding is noncovalent, e.g., by
                                                     38

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
hydrogen, electrostatic, or van der Waals interactions, however, binding can also be covalent.
Control-binding molecules can be naturally-occurring, recombinant or synthetic. Examples of the
control-binding molecule can include, but are not limited to a nucleic acid, an antibody or a portion
thereof, an antibody-like molecule, an enzyme, an antigen, a small molecule, a protein, a peptide, a
peptidomimetic, a carbohydrate, an aptamer, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments,
the control-binding molecule does not include a nucleic acid molecule.
     [00145]     In some embodiments, the control-binding molecules can be modified by any means
known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Methods to modify each type of control-binding molecules
are well recognized in the art. Depending on the types of control-binding molecules, an exemplary
modification includes, but is not limited to genetic modification, biotinylation, labeling (for
detection purposes), chemical modification (e.g., to produce derivatives or fragments of the control
binding molecule), and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the control-binding
molecule can be genetically modified. In some embodiments, the control-binding molecule can be
biotinylated.
     [00146]     In some embodiments, the control-binding molecule can comprise an antibody or a
portion thereof, or an antibody-like molecule. An antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like
molecule can detect expression level of a housekeeping protein, e.g., but not limited to GAPDH,
actin, and/or tubulin. In some embodiments, the antibody or a portion thereof or antibody-like
molecule can specifically bind to a control IgG isotype. In some embodiments, the antibody or a
portion thereof or antibody-like molecule can specifically bind to a mutant non-function or non
binding protein, e.g., a protein G that has been mutated at the binding site.
     [00147]     Identification control sequences: As used herein, the term "identification control
sequence" refers to a nucleotide sequence that identifies a specific control-binding molecule. Thus,
each identification control sequence acts as a unique identification code for each control-binding
molecule to which it was coupled.
     [00148]     In some embodiments, the identification control sequences have minimal or no
secondary structures such as any stable intra-molecular base-pairing interaction (e.g., hairpins).
Without wishing to be bound by theory, in some embodiments, the minimal secondary structure in
the identification control sequences can provide for better hybridization between a first portion of the
identification control sequence and the reporter probe, and/or between a second portion of the
identification control sequence and the capture probe. In addition, the minimal secondary structure in
the identification control sequence can provide for better binding of the control-binding molecule to
the corresponding control molecule. In some embodiments, the identification control sequences
described herein have no significant intra-molecular pairing at a pre-determined annealing
                                                   39

    WO 2014/200767                                                                 PCT/US2014/040731
temperature. The pre-determined annealing temperature can range from about 65 'C- 80 'C or from
about 70 'C- 80'C, or at about 70'C- 75'C.
     [00149]      In some embodiments, identification control sequences of the control probes
described herein can be selected or designed such that they do not cross-react with or bind to any
nucleic acid sequence in a genome of a subject whose sample is being evaluated. Thus, the
identification control sequences of the control probes used to detect control molecules in a subject's
sample can be selected or designed based on nucleotide sequences of a species or genus that share a
homology (sequence identity) with that of the subject by no more than 50% or less, including, e.g.,
no more than 40%, no more than 30%, no more than 20%, no more than 10% or less. By way of
example only, in some embodiments, the identification control sequences of the control probes used
in an animal's sample (e.g., a mammal such as a human) can be derived from a plant genome. In one
embodiment, the identification control sequences of the control probes used in a human's sample can
be derived from a potato genome. In some embodiments, the identification control sequence can
comprise a sequence selected from Table 2 (SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 110), or a fragment
thereof.
     [00150]      Generally, identification control sequences of the control probes can have any
sequence length and can vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to
detection methods, and/or the number of control molecules to be detected. For example, in some
embodiments, the length of the identification control sequences can increase to provide sufficient
identification of a large number of control molecules in a sample. In some embodiments where a
hybridization-based method is used to detect identification control sequences, the identification
control sequences can have a length sufficient to provide reliable binding to complementary reporter
probes and/or capture probes and to generate detectable signals. In some embodiments, the
identification control sequences can have a length of about 30-150 nucleotides, or about 30-100
nucleotides, or about 50-100 nucleotides. In some embodiments, the identification control sequences
can have a length of at least about 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at
least 90, at least 100 or more nucleotides. In some embodiments, the identification control sequences
can have a length of about 70 nucleotides.
     [00151]      In some embodiments, the identification control sequences described herein can have
a fairly consistent melting temperature (Tm). Without wishing to be bound by theory, the Tm of the
identification control sequences described herein refers to the temperature at which 50% of the
oligonucleotide and its complement are in duplex. The consistent Tm among a population of the
identification control sequences allows for the synthesis and hybridization procedures to be tightly
optimized, as the optimal conditions are substantially the same for all spots and positions. In some
embodiments, the Tm of an identification control sequence when hybridized to its complementary
                                                     40

   WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
reporter probes and/or capture probes can range from about 70-90 'C, from about 75-85 'C, or from
about 79-82 'C. In some embodiments, the Tm of an identification control sequence when
hybridized to its complementary reporter probes and/or capture probes can be at least 70 'C, at least
75 'C, at least 80'C, at least 85 'C or higher.
     [00152]      Cleavable linkers: Any cleavable linkers used in the target probes can be used in the
control probes. In some embodiments, the cleavable linker comprises a photocleavable linker. In
some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can be selected from the group consisting of
molecules (i)-(xiv) shown herein and any combinations thereof In some embodiments, the
photocleavable linker can comprise the molecule (xiv).
Reporterprobes
     [00153]     As used herein, the term "reporter probe" generally refers to a synthetic molecule
that binds a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe and generates a
detectable signal that is distinguishable for the reporter probe and the bound identification nucleotide
sequence.
     [00154]     In some embodiments, the reporter probes have minimal or no secondary structures
such as any stable intra-molecular base-pairing interaction (e.g., hairpins). Without wishing to be
bound by theory, the minimal secondary structure in the reporter probes can provide for better
hybridization between the reporter probe's backbone and a portion of the identification nucleotide
sequences. In addition, the minimal secondary structure in the reporter probes can provide for better
detection of the detectable label in the reporter probes. In some embodiments, the reporter probes
described herein have no significant intra-molecular pairing at a pre-determined annealing
temperature. The pre-determined annealing temperature can range from about 650 C- 80' C or from
about 70' C- 80' C, or at about 70'C- 750 C. Secondary structures can be predicted by programs
known in the art such as MFOLD.
     [00155]     In various aspects described herein, a reporter probe generally comprises a detectable
label that identifies the reporter probe. As used herein, the term "detectable label" refers to a
composition capable of producing a detectable signal indicative of the presence of a target, e.g., a
reporter probe bound to an identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe. Detectable labels
include any composition detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical,
immunochemical, electrical, optical or chemical means. Suitable detectable labels can include
fluorescent molecules, radioisotopes, nucleotide chromophores, enzymes, substrates,
chemiluminescent moieties, bioluminescent moieties, and the like. As such, a detectable label is any
composition detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, electrical,
optical or chemical means needed for the methods and devices described herein.
                                                     41

    WO 2014/200767                                                                   PCT/US2014/040731
     [00156]       In some embodiments, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise one
or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe. In some
embodiments, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise one labeling molecule. In
some embodiments, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise at least two or more
(e.g., at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6 or more) labeling molecules. As used herein,
the term "labeling molecule" is a molecule that is capable of producing a detectable signal, which
constitutes at least part of the detectable signal produced by the detectable label. Accordingly, a
labeling molecule can be a fluorescent molecule, a radioisotope, a nucleotide chromophore, an
enzyme, a substrate, a chemiluminescent moiety, a bioluminescent moiety, or any combinations
thereof
     [00157]       In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecule(s) can generate
an optical signal. The optical signal can be a light-emitting signal or a series or sequence of light
emitting signals. In some embodiments, labeling molecules for generation of an optical signal can
comprise one or a plurality of (e.g., at least 2 or more, including, e.g., at least 3, at least 4, at least 5
or more) a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a chemiluminescent moiety, or
any combinations thereof.
     [00158]       A wide variety of fluorescent reporter dyes are known in the art. Typically, the
fluorophore is an aromatic or heteroaromatic compound and can be a pyrene, anthracene,
naphthalene, acridine, stilbene, indole, benzindole, oxazole, thiazole, benzothiazole, cyanine,
carbocyanine, salicylate, anthranilate, coumarin, fluorescein, rhodamine or other like compound.
     [00159]       Exemplary fluorophores include, but are not limited to, 1,5 IAEDANS; 1,8-ANS ; 4
Methylumbelliferone; 5-carboxy-2,7-dichlorofluorescein; 5-Carboxyfluorescein (5-FAM); 5
Carboxynapthofluorescein (pH 10); 5-Carboxytetramethylrhodamine (5-TAMRA); 5-FAM (5
Carboxyfluorescein); 5-Hydroxy Tryptamine (HAT); 5-ROX (carboxy-X-rhodamine); 5-TAMRA
(5-Carboxytetramethylrhodamine); 6-Carboxyrhodamine 6G; 6-CR 6G; 6-JOE; 7-Amino-4
methylcoumarin; 7-Aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD); 7-Hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin; 9-Amino-6
chloro-2-methoxyacridine; ABQ; Acid Fuchsin; ACMA (9-Amino-6-chloro-2-methoxyacridine);
Acridine Orange; Acridine Red; Acridine Yellow; Acriflavin; Acriflavin Feulgen SITSA; Aequorin
(Photoprotein); Alexa Fluor       350TM;   Alexa Fluor 430TM; Alexa Fluor 488TM; Alexa Fluor 532TM;
Alexa Fluor 546TM; Alexa Fluor 568TM; Alexa Fluor 594TM; Alexa Fluor 633TM; Alexa Fluor 647TM.
Alexa Fluor    660TM;   Alexa Fluor    680TM;   Alizarin Complexon; Alizarin Red; Allophycocyanin
(APC); AMC, AMCA-S; AMCA (Aminomethylcoumarin); AMCA-X; Aminoactinomycin D;
Aminocoumarin; Anilin Blue; Anthrocyl stearate; APC-Cy7; APTS; Astrazon Brilliant Red 4G;
Astrazon Orange R; Astrazon Red 6B; Astrazon Yellow 7 GLL; Atabrine; ATTO-TAGTM CBQCA;
ATTO-TAGTM FQ; Auramine; Aurophosphine G; Aurophosphine; BAO 9
                                                           42

    WO 2014/200767                                                         PCT/US2014/040731
(Bisaminophenyloxadiazole); BCECF (high pH); BCECF (low pH); Berberine Sulphate; Beta
Lactamase; BFP blue shifted GFP (Y66H); BG-647; Bimane; Bisbenzamide; Blancophor FFG;
Blancophor SV; BOBO T M -1; BOBO T M -3; Bodipy 492/515; Bodipy 493/503; Bodipy 500/510;
Bodipy 505/515; Bodipy 530/550; Bodipy 542/563; Bodipy 558/568; Bodipy 564/570; Bodipy
576/589; Bodipy 581/591; Bodipy 630/650-X; Bodipy 650/665-X; Bodipy 665/676; Bodipy Fl;
Bodipy FL ATP; Bodipy Fi-Ceramide; Bodipy R6G SE; Bodipy TMR; Bodipy TMR-X conjugate;
Bodipy TMR-X, SE; Bodipy TR; Bodipy TR ATP; Bodipy TR-X SE; BO-PROTM -1; BO-PROTM 3;
Brilliant Sulphoflavin FF; Calcein; Calcein Blue; Calcium CrimsonTM; Calcium Green; Calcium
Green-I Ca2+ Dye; Calcium Green-2 Ca2+; Calcium Green-5N Ca2+; Calcium Green-C 18 Ca2+;
Calcium Orange; Calcofluor White; Carboxy-X-rhodamine (5-ROX); Cascade BlueTM; Cascade
Yellow; Catecholamine; CFDA; CFP - Cyan Fluorescent Protein; Chlorophyll; Chromomycin A;
Chromomycin A; CMFDA; Coelenterazine ; Coelenterazine cp; Coelenterazine f; Coelenterazine
fcp; Coelenterazine h; Coelenterazine hcp; Coelenterazine ip; Coelenterazine 0; Coumarin
Phalloidin; CPM Methylcoumarin; CTC; Cy2TM; Cy3.1 8; Cy3.5TM; Cy3TM; Cy5.1 8; Cy5.5TM;
Cy5TM; Cy7TM; Cyan GFP; cyclic AMP Fluorosensor (FiCRhR); d2; Dabcyl; Dansyl; Dansyl
Amine; Dansyl Cadaverine; Dansyl Chloride; Dansyl DHPE; Dansyl fluoride; DAPI; Dapoxyl;
Dapoxyl 2; Dapoxyl 3; DCFDA; DCFH (Dichlorodihydrofluorescein Diacetate); DDAO; DHR
(Dihydorhodamine 123); Di-4-ANEPPS; Di-8-ANEPPS (non-ratio); DiA (4-Di-16-ASP); DIDS;
Dihydorhodamine 123 (DHR); DiO (DiOC18(3)); DiR; DiR (DiIC18(7)); Dopamine; DsRed;
DTAF; DY-630-NHS; DY-635-NHS; EBFP; ECFP; EGFP; ELF 97; Eosin; Erythrosin; Erythrosin
ITC; Ethidium homodimer-1 (EthD-1); Euchrysin; Europium (III) chloride; Europium; EYFP; Fast
Blue; FDA; Feulgen (Pararosaniline); FITC; FL-645; Flazo Orange; Fluo-3; Fluo-4; Fluorescein
Diacetate; Fluoro-Emerald; Fluoro-Gold (Hydroxystilbamidine); Fluor-Ruby; FluorX; FM 1-43TM;
FM 4-46; Fura RedTM (high pH); Fura-2, high calcium; Fura-2, low calcium; Genacryl Brilliant Red
B; Genacryl Brilliant Yellow IOGF; Genacryl Pink 3G; Genacryl Yellow 5GF; GFP (S65T); GFP
red shifted (rsGFP); GFP wild type, non-UV excitation (wtGFP); GFP wild type, UV excitation
(wtGFP); GFPuv; Gloxalic Acid; Granular Blue; Haematoporphyrin; Hoechst 33258; Hoechst
33342; Hoechst 34580; HPTS; Hydroxycoumarin; Hydroxystilbamidine (FluoroGold);
Hydroxytryptamine; Indodicarbocyanine (DiD); Indotricarbocyanine (DiR); Intrawhite Cf; JC-1; JO
JO-1; JO-PRO-1; LaserPro; Laurodan; LDS 751; Leucophor PAF; Leucophor SF; Leucophor WS;
Lissamine Rhodamine; Lissamine Rhodamine B; LOLO-1; LO-PRO-1; Lucifer Yellow; Mag Green;
Magdala Red (Phloxin B); Magnesium Green; Magnesium Orange; Malachite Green; Marina Blue;
Maxilon Brilliant Flavin 10 GFF; Maxilon Brilliant Flavin 8 GFF; Merocyanin; Methoxycoumarin;
Mitotracker Green FM; Mitotracker Orange; Mitotracker Red; Mitramycin; Monobromobimane;
Monobromobimane (mBBr-GSH); Monochlorobimane; MPS (Methyl Green Pyronine Stilbene);
                                                  43

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
NBD; NBD Amine; Nile Red; Nitrobenzoxadidole; Noradrenaline; Nuclear Fast Red; Nuclear
Yellow; Nylosan Brilliant lavin E8G; Oregon Green TM ; Oregon Green 488-X; Oregon GreenTM 488;
Oregon GreenTM 500; Oregon GreenTM 514; Pacific Blue; Pararosaniline (Feulgen); PE-Cy5; PE
Cy7; PerCP; PerCP-Cy5.5; PE-TexasRed (Red 613); Phloxin B (Magdala Red); Phorwite AR;
Phorwite BKL; Phorwite Rev; Phorwite RPA; Phosphine 3R; PhotoResist; Phycoerythrin B [PE];
Phycoerythrin R [PE]; PKH26 ; PKH67; PMIA; Pontochrome Blue Black; POPO-1; POPO-3; PO
PRO-1; PO-PRO-3; Primuline; Procion Yellow; Propidium lodid (PI); PyMPO; Pyrene; Pyronine;
Pyronine B; Pyrozal Brilliant Flavin 7GF; QSY 7; Quinacrine Mustard; Resorufin; RH 414; Rhod-2;
Rhodamine; Rhodamine 110; Rhodamine 123; Rhodamine 5 GLD; Rhodamine 6G; Rhodamine B
540; Rhodamine B 200 ; Rhodamine B extra; Rhodamine BB; Rhodamine BG; Rhodamine Green;
Rhodamine Phallicidine; Rhodamine Phalloidine; Rhodamine Red; Rhodamine WT; Rose Bengal;
R-phycoerythrin (PE); red shifted GFP (rsGFP, S65T); S65A; S65C; S65L; S65T; Sapphire GFP;
Serotonin; Sevron Brilliant Red 2B; Sevron Brilliant Red 4G; Sevron Brilliant Red B; Sevron
Orange; Sevron Yellow L; sgBFPTM; sgBFPTM (super glow BFP); sgGFPTM; sgGFPTM (super glow
GFP); SITS; SITS (Primuline); SITS (Stilbene Isothiosulphonic Acid); SPQ (6-methoxy-N-(3
sulfopropyl)-quinolinium); Stilbene; Sulphorhodamine B can C; Sulphorhodamine G Extra;
Tetracycline; Tetramethylrhodamine ; Texas RedTM; Texas Red-XTM conjugate; Thiadicarbocyanine
(DiSC3); Thiazine Red R; Thiazole Orange; Thioflavin 5; Thioflavin S; Thioflavin TCN; Thiolyte;
Thiozole Orange; Tinopol CBS (Calcofluor White); TMR; TO-PRO-1; TO-PRO-3; TO-PRO-5;
TOTO-1; TOTO-3; TriColor (PE-Cy5); TRITC (TetramethylRodaminelsoThioCyanate); True Blue;
TruRed; Ultralite; Uranine B; Uvitex SFC; wt GFP; WW 781; XL665; X-Rhodamine; XRITC;
Xylene Orange; Y66F; Y66H; Y66W; Yellow GFP; YFP; YO-PRO-1; YO-PRO-3; YOYO- 1; and
YOYO-3. Many suitable forms of these fluorescent compounds are available and can be used.
     [00160]     Other exemplary detectable labels and/or labeling molecules include luminescent and
bioluminescent markers (e.g., biotin, luciferase (e.g., bacterial, firefly, click beetle and the like),
luciferin, and aequorin), radiolabels (e.g., 3H, 1251, 35S, 14C, or 32P), enzymes (e.g.,
galactosidases, glucorinidases, phosphatases (e.g., alkaline phosphatase), peroxidases (e.g.,
horseradish peroxidase), and cholinesterases), and calorimetric labels such as colloidal gold or
colored glass or plastic (e.g., polystyrene, polypropylene, and latex) beads. Patents teaching the use
of such labels include U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,817,837, 3,850,752, 3,939,350, 3,996,345, 4,277,437,
4,275,149, and 4,366,241, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00161]     Means of detecting such detectable labels and/or labeling molecules are well known
to those of skill in the art. Thus, for example, radiolabels can be detected using photographic film or
scintillation counters, fluorescent markers can be detected using a photo-detector to detect emitted
light. Enzymatic labels are typically detected by providing the enzyme with an enzyme substrate and
                                                     44

    WO 2014/200767                                                                   PCT/US2014/040731
detecting the reaction product produced by the action of the enzyme on the enzyme substrate, and
calorimetric labels can be detected by visualizing the colored label.
     [00162]      In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecules can comprise at
least one or more (e.g., at least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least or
seven or more) fluorophores or quantum dots. Without wishing to be bound by a theory, using a
fluorescent reagent can reduce signal-to-noise in the imaging/readout, thus maintaining sensitivity.
The color sequence of the labeling molecules in the detectable label can provide an identity to the
corresponding reporter probe. For example, a reporter probe I comprises a detectable label with three
fluorophores in the following order: fluorophore A; fluorophore B and fluorophore C; whereas a
reporter probe II comprises a detectable label with the same three fluorophores but in a different
order: fluorophore A; fluorophore C and fluorophore B. While the reporter probes I and II have the
same fluorophores, the color sequences of the reporter probe I and reporter probe II are distinct,
which identifies the individual reporter probes.
     [00163]      In some embodiments, the labeling molecule can comprise an enzyme that produces
a change in color of an enzyme substrate. A variety of enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase
(HRP) and alkaline peroxide (AP) can be used, with either colorimetric or fluorogenic substrates. In
some embodiments, the reporter-enzyme produces a calorimetric change which can be measured as
light absorption at a particular wavelength. Exemplary enzymes include, but are not limited to, beta
galactosidases, peroxidases, catalases, alkaline phosphatases, and the like.
     [00164]      In some embodiments, the reporter probe can further comprise a first target probe
specific region that binds to a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, a reporter probe can comprise: (a) a first target probe-specific
region that binds to a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (b) a detectable label
that identifies the reporter probe.
     [00165]      As used herein, the term "first target probe-specific region" refers to a region of a
reporter probe that binds to a first portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe.
The first target probe-specific region can comprise a fairly regularly-spaced pattern of a nucleotide
residue and/or a group (e.g., at least 2 or more) of nucleotide residues in the backbone. In some
embodiments, a nucleotide residue and/or a group (e.g., at least 2 or more) of nucleotide residues can
be spaced at least an average of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 4, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or
50 bases apart within the first target probe-specific region. This allows for a first target probe
specific region having a regularly spaced pattern of a nucleotide or a group of nucleotides binds to a
nucleotide sequence that has a complementary nucleotide or a group of complementary nucleotides
regularly spaced apart by about the same number of bases. For example, in some embodiments,
when the first target probe-specific region contain a fairly regularly-spaced pattern of adenine
                                                      45

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
residues in the backbone, it can bind a nucleotide sequence that has a thymine residue fairly
regularly spaced apart by about the same of number of bases.
     [00166]     In some embodiments, at least 30% or more (including, e.g., at least 4 0%, at least
50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 97%, at least  99
                                                                                                      %,
or 100%) of the first target probe-specific region is complementary to a first portion of the
identification nucleotide sequence. As used herein and throughout the specification, the term
"complementary" refers to a first nucleic acid strand able to form hydrogen bond(s) with a second
nucleic acid strand by either traditional Watson-Crick or other non- traditional types. A percent
complementarity indicates the percentage of residues in a nucleic acid molecule that can form
hydrogen bonds (e.g., Watson-Crick base pairing) with a second nucleic acid sequence (e.g., 5, 6, 7,
8, 9,10 out of 10 being 50%, 6 0%, 7 0%, 8 0%, 9 0%, and 100% complementary). "Perfectly
complementary" or 100% complementarity means that all the contiguous residues of a nucleic acid
sequence will form hydrogen bonds with the same number of contiguous residues in a second
nucleic acid sequence. Less than perfect complementarity refers to the situation in which some, but
not all, nucleotides of two strands can form hydrogen bonds with each other. "Substantial
complementarity" refers to polynucleotide strands exhibiting 90% or greater complementarity,
excluding regions of the polynucleotide strands, such as overhangs, that are selected so as to be non
complementary. Specific binding requires a sufficient degree of complementarity to avoid non
specific binding of the oligomeric sequence to non-target sequences under conditions in which
specific binding is desired, i.e., in vitro assays, under conditions in which the assays are performed.
The non-target sequences typically differ by at least 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 nucleotides.
     [00167]     In some embodiments, the first target probe-specific region can be identified for use
in the reporter probe using the methods and computer systems described in U.S. Patent No.
8,415,102 to NanoString Technologies, Inc.
     [00168]     In some embodiments, the first target probe-specific region and a detectable label can
be coupled to each other by at least one or more linkers as described herein. In some embodiments,
the linker between the first target probe-specific region and the detectable label can comprise an
amide bond. In some embodiments, the linker between the first target probe-specific region and the
detectable label can comprise a chemical linker as described herein.
     [00169]     In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecules can be detected
using an epifluorescent microscope. In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling
molecules can be detected using a fluorescent microscope.
     [00170]     In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecules can be detected
through use of spectroscopy. Numerous types of spectroscopic methods can be used. Examples of
such methods include, but are not limited to, ultraviolet spectroscopy, visible light spectroscopy,
                                                      46

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
infrared spectroscopy, x-ray spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, mass spectroscopy, plasmon
resonance (e.g., Cherif et al., Clinical Chemistry, 52:255-262 (2006) and U.S. Pat. No. 7,030,989;
herein incorporated by reference), nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy,
fluorescence quenching, fluorescence resonance energy transfer, intrinsic fluorescence, ligand
fluorescence, and the like.
     [00171]     In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecules can be detected
through use of fluorescence anisotropy. Fluorescence anisotropy is based on measuring the steady
state polarization of sample fluorescence imaged in a confocal arrangement. A linearly polarized
laser excitation source preferentially excites fluorescent target molecules with transition moments
aligned parallel to the incident polarization vector. The resultant fluorescence is collected and
directed into two channels that measure the intensity of the fluorescence polarized both parallel and
perpendicular to that of the excitation beam. With these two measurements, the fluorescence
anisotropy, r, can be determined from the equation: r = (Intensity parallel-Intensity perpendicular)/
(Intensity parallel+2(Intensity perpendicular)) where the I terms indicate intensity measurements
parallel and perpendicular to the incident polarization. Fluorescence anisotropy detection of
fluorescent molecules has been described. Accordingly, fluorescence anisotropy can be coupled to
numerous fluorescent labels as have been described herein and as have been described in the art.
     [00172]     In some embodiments, the detectable label and/or labeling molecules can be detected
through use of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). Fluorescence resonance energy
transfer refers to an energy transfer mechanism between two fluorescent molecules. A fluorescent
donor is excited at its fluorescence excitation wavelength. This excited state is then nonradiatively
transferred to a second molecule, the fluorescent acceptor. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer
may be used within numerous configurations to detect the detectable label and/or labeling molecules.
For example, in some embodiments, a first labeling molecule can be labeled with a fluorescent donor
and second labeling molecule can be labeled with a fluorescent acceptor. Accordingly, such labeled
first and second labeling molecules can be used within competition assays to detect the detectable
label and/or labeling molecules. Numerous combinations of fluorescent donors and fluorescent
acceptors can be used for detection.
     [00173]     In some embodiments, the detectable and/or labeling molecules can be detected
through use of polynucleotide analysis. Examples of such methods include, but are not limited to,
those based on polynucleotide hybridization, polynucleotide ligation, polynucleotide amplification,
polynucleotide degradation, and the like. Methods that utilize intercalation dyes, fluorescence
resonance energy transfer, capacitive deoxyribonucleic acid detection, and nucleic acid amplification
have been described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,118, 910 and No. 6,960,437; herein
incorporated by reference). Such methods can be adapted to provide for detection of the detectable
                                                    47

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
label and/or labeling molecules. In some embodiments, fluorescence quenching, molecular beacons,
electron transfer, electrical conductivity, and the like can be used to analyze polynucleotide
interaction. Such methods are known and have been described, for example, in Jarvius, DNA Tools
and Microfluidic Systems for Molecular Analysis, Digital Comprehensive Summaries of Uppsala
Dissertations from the Faculty of Medicine 161, ACTA UNIVERSITATIS UPSALIENSIS
UPPSALA 2006, ISBN: 91-554-6616-8; Singh-Zocchi et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci, 100:7605-7610
(2003); Wang et al. Anal. Chem, 75:3941-3945 (2003); and Fan et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci,
100:9134-9137 (2003) and in U.S. Pat. No. 6,958,216; No. 5,093,268; and 6,090,545, the content of
all of which is incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments, the polynucleotide analysis
is by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The fundamentals of PCR are well-known to the skilled
artisan, see, e.g. McPherson, et al., PCR, A Practical Approach, IRL Press, Oxford, Eng. (1991),
hereby incorporated by reference.
     [00174]      In some embodiments, the reporter probes can further comprise an affinity tag, which
is described in detail in the "Captureprobes" section below.
     [00175]      In some embodiments, an affinity tag is placed near or at one end of the reporter
probe such that attachment of the reporter probe to a solid substrate surface does not significantly
interfere with detection of the detectable label.
     [00176]      In some embodiments, the reporter probe(s) described herein refers to a "reporter
probe" or "labeled nanoreporter probe" or "nanoreporter probe(s)" as described in the U.S. Patent
No. 8519115; and US Patent App. Pub. Nos. US 2014/0017688; US 2014/0037620;
US2013/0017971; US 2013/0230851; US 2011/0201515; US 2011/0086774; US 2011/0229888; and
US 2010/0261026, all of which are assigned to Nanostring Technologies, Inc. and are incorporated
herein by reference.
Captureprobes
     [00177]      As used herein, the term "capture probe" generally refers to a synthetic molecule that
binds a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe and optionally
comprise an affinity tag. As used herein, the term "affinity tag" refers to a molecule that permits
reversible or reversible immobilization of the capture probe and bound identification nucleotide
sequence to a solid substrate surface, e.g., to allow visualization and/or imaging of the bound
complex. In some embodiments, immobilization of the released identification nucleotide sequences
can provide distinguishable spatial signals that identify the capture probes coupled to the released
identification nucleotide sequences. Examples of a solid substrate include, but are not limited to, a
microfluidic device, a cartridge, a microtiter plate, a tube, a magnetic particle, a scaffold, and an
array.
                                                     48

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
     [00178]      The affinity tag of the capture probe can attach to a solid substrate surface through a
covalent or non-covalent interaction. The immobilization or attachment of the affinity tag to a solid
substrate surface can occur covalently or non-covalently using any of the methods known to those of
skill in the art. For example, covalent immobilization can be accomplished through, for example,
silane coupling. See, e.g., Weetall, 15 Adv. Mol. Cell Bio. 161 (2008); Weetall, 44 Meths. Enzymol.
134 (1976). The covalent interaction between the affinity tag and the solid substrate surface can also
be mediated by other art-recognized chemical reactions, such as NHS reaction or a conjugation
agent. The non-covalent interaction between the affinity tag and the solid substrate surface can be
formed based on ionic interactions, van der Waals interactions, dipole-dipole interactions, hydrogen
bonds, electrostatic interactions, and/or shape recognition interactions.
     [00179]      In some embodiments, the affinity tag can comprise a linker as described herein. For
example, in some embodiments, the affinity tag can comprise a member of a coupling molecule pair
as described in the "Linkers" section below. In some embodiments, the affinity tag can comprise a
member of the biotin-avidin or biotin-streptavidin coupling pair. For example, in some
embodiments, the affinity tag can comprise a biotin molecule, while the solid surface can be coupled
with avidin and/or streptavidin.
     [00180]      In some embodiments, the affinity tag can comprise a physical linker. For example,
the affinity tag can comprise a magnetic particle, where the affinity tag is immobilized to a solid
substrate surface under a magnetic force.
     [00181]      In some embodiments, the capture probes have minimal or no secondary structures
such as any stable intra-molecular base-pairing interaction (e.g., hairpins). Without wishing to be
bound by theory, the minimal secondary structure in the capture probes can provide for better
hybridization between the capture probe's backbone and a portion of the identification nucleotide
sequences. In addition, the minimal secondary structure in the capture probes can provide for better
attachment of the bound complex (i.e., a complex comprising a capture probe bound to an
identification nucleotide sequence) to a solid substrate surface. In some embodiments, the capture
probes described herein have no significant intra-molecular pairing at a pre-determined annealing
temperature. The pre-determined annealing temperature can range from about 650 C- 80' C or from
about 70' C- 80' C, or at about 70'C- 750 C.
     [00182]      In some embodiments, the capture probe can comprise a second target probe-specific
region that binds to a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target probe.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, a capture probe can comprise: (a) a second target probe-specific
region that binds to a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and optionally (b) an
affinity tag.
                                                     49

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
     [00183]     As used herein, the term "second target probe-specific region" refers to a region of a
capture probe that binds to a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence of a target
probe. The second target probe-specific region can comprise a fairly regularly-spaced pattern of a
nucleotide residue and/or a group (e.g., at least 2 or more) of nucleotide residues in the backbone. In
some embodiments, a nucleotide residue and/or a group (e.g., at least 2 or more) of nucleotide
residues can be spaced at least an average of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 4, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45, or 50 bases apart within the second target probe-specific region. This allows for a second
target probe-specific region having a regularly spaced pattern of a nucleotide or a group of
nucleotides binds to a nucleotide sequence that has a complementary nucleotide or a group of
complementary nucleotides regularly spaced apart by about the same number of bases. For example,
in some embodiments, when the second target probe-specific region contain a fairly regularly-spaced
pattern of adenine residues in the backbone, it can bind a nucleotide sequence that has a thymine
residue fairly regularly spaced apart by about the same of number of bases.
     [00184]     In some embodiments, at least 30% or more (including, e.g., at least 40%, at least
50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 97%, at least 99%,
or 100%) of the second target probe-specific region is complementary to a second portion of the
identification nucleotide sequence.
     [00185]     In some embodiments, the second target probe-specific region can be identified for
use in the capture probe using the methods and computer systems described in U.S. Patent No.
8,415,102 to NanoString Technologies, Inc.
     [00186]     In some embodiments, the second target probe-specific region and an affinity tag can
be coupled to each other by at least one or more linkers as described herein. In some embodiments,
the linker between the second target probe-specific region and the affinity tag can comprise an amide
bond. In some embodiments, the linker between the second target probe-specific region and the
affinity tag can comprise a chemical linker as described herein.
     [00187]     In some embodiments, the capture probe(s) described herein refers to a "capture
probe" or "unlabeled nanoreporter probe" or "nanoreporter probe(s)" as described in the U.S. Patent
No. 8519115; and US Patent App. Pub. Nos. US 2014/0017688; US 2014/0037620;
US2013/0017971; US 2013/0230851; US 2011/0201515; US 2011/0086774; US 2011/0229888; and
US 2010/0261026, all of which are assigned to Nanostring Technologies, Inc. and are incorporated
herein by reference.
     [00188]     Where both reporter probes and capture probes are used in the methods and/or
systems described herein, the first target probe-specific region of a reporter probe and the second
target probe-specific region of a capture probe should hybridize to a portion of an identification
nucleotide sequence at different positions. For example, the portions of the identification nucleotide
                                                    50

    WO 2014/200767                                                                        PCT/US2014/040731
sequences to which the target-specific regions of the reporter and capture probes hybridize can be at
least 1, at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, at least 10,
at least 11, at least 12, at least 13, at least 14, at least 15, at least 16, at least 17, at least 18, at least
19, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40 or more base pairs apart.
Systems, e.g., for multiplexed detection of target molecules in a sample
     [00189]      Various embodiments of the methods described herein can be carried out in one or
more functional modules in a system or a computer system as described herein. Accordingly, another
provided herein relates to a system for multiplexed detection of a plurality of target molecules in a
sample.
     [00190]      Fig. 18A depicts a device or a computer system 600 comprising one or more
processors 630 and a memory 650 storing one or more programs 620 for execution by the one or
more processors 630.
     [00191]      In some embodiments, the device or computer system 600 can further comprise a
non-transitory computer-readable storage medium 700 storing the one or more programs 620 for
execution by the one or more processors 630 of the device or computer system 600.
     [00192]      In some embodiments, the device or computer system 600 can further comprise one
or more input devices 640, which can be configured to send or receive information to or from any
one from the group consisting of: an external device (not shown), the one or more processors 630,
the memory 650, the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium 700, and one or more output
devices 660.
     [00193]      In some embodiments, the device or computer system 600 can further comprise one
or more output devices 660, which can be configured to send or receive information to or from any
one from the group consisting of: an external device (not shown), the one or more processors 630,
the memory 650, and the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium 700.
     [00194]      In some embodiments, the device or computer system 600 for multiplexed detection
of target molecules in a sample comprises: one or more processors; and memory to store one or more
programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions for:
                (a) receiving said at least one test sample comprising a sample and a plurality of target
         probes described herein;
                (b) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the target probes that are
         bound to target molecules in the sample;
                (c) detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences;
                (d) determining the presence of one or more target molecules in the sample based on
         the detected signals by performing the following:
                                                          51

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
               i. identifying the detectable probes of the reporter probes that correspond to the
         detected signals;
               ii. identifying the identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes that
         correspond to the detectable probes based on the first target probe-specific regions of the
         reporter probes; and
               iii. identifying the target-binding molecules that correspond to the identification
         nucleotide sequences; and
                  (e) displaying a content based in part on the analysis output from said analysis
         module, wherein the content comprises a signal indicative of the following: (i) the presence
         of one or more target molecules in the sample, (ii) the absence of one or more target
         molecules in the sample, and/or (iii) expression levels of one or more target molecules in the
         sample.
     [00195]      Fig. 18B depicts a device or a system 600 (e.g., a computer system) for obtaining
data from at least one test sample obtained from at least one subject is provided. The system can be
used for multiplexed detection of target molecules in a sample. The system comprises:
    (a) at least one sample processing module 601 comprising instructions for
          receiving said at least one test sample comprising a sample and a plurality of target probes
described herein; and
         releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the target probes that are bound to
target molecules in the sample;
    (b) a signal detection module 602 comprising instructions for detecting signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences;
    (c) at least one data storage module 604 comprising instructions for storing the detected signals
from (b) and information associated with identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes;
    (d) at least one analysis module 606 comprising instructions for determining the presence of one
or more target molecules in the sample based on the detected signals; and
    (e) at least one display module 610 for displaying a content based in part on the analysis output
from said analysis module, wherein the content comprises a signal indicative of the following: (i) the
presence of one or more target molecules in the sample, (ii) the absence of one or more target
molecules in the sample, and/or (iii) expression levels of one or more target molecules in the sample.
     [00196]      In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 can be adapted for
isolating target cells, as single cells or as a population, from the sample. In some embodiments, the
sample processing module can comprise a microfluidic device for magnetic separation of target cells
or interfering cells from a sample using the methods and devices as described in as described in the
                                                      52

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
International Pat. App. No. WO 2013/078332, the content of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
     [00197]     In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 can comprise a multi-well
plate (e.g., 96-well, 384 wells, or nano- or micro-wells) for single-cell analyses.
     [00198]     In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 can be adapted for
extracting nucleic acid molecules from the same sample for nucleic acid analysis. Techniques for
nucleic acid analysis are known in the art and can be used to assay the test sample to determine
nucleic acid or gene expression measurements, for example, but not limited to, DNA sequencing,
RNA sequencing, de novo sequencing, next-generation sequencing such as massively parallel
signature sequencing (MPSS), polony sequencing, pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa) sequencing,
SOLiD sequencing, ion semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single
molecule sequencing, single molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing), nanopore DNA sequencing,
sequencing by hybridization, sequencing with mass spectrometry, microfluidic Sanger sequencing,
microscopy-based sequencing techniques, RNA polymerase (RNAP) sequencing, or any
combinations thereof.
     [00199]     Accordingly, in some embodiments, the system described herein can be used to
generate integrate profiling, e.g., expression profiles of proteins and nucleic acid molecules from the
same sample.
     [00200]     In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 or the signal detection
module 602 can further comprise instructions for contacting the released identification nucleotide
sequences with reporter probes described herein.
     [00201]     In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 or the signal detection
module 602 can further comprise instructions for contacting the released identification nucleotide
sequences with capture probes described herein.
     [00202]     In some embodiments, the sample processing module 601 or the signal detection
module 602 can further comprise instructions for immobilizing the released identification
nucleotides to a solid substrate through the affinity tag described herein. Examples of a solid
substrate include, but are not limited to a microfluidic device, a cartridge, a tube, a microtiter plate, a
magnetic particle, and any combinations thereof.
     [00203]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can further comprise instructions for
(i) identifying the detectable probes of the reporter probes that correspond to the detected signals; (ii)
identifying the identification nucleotide sequences of the target probes that correspond to the
detectable probes based on the first target probe-specific regions of the reporter probes; and (iii)
identifying the target-binding molecules that correspond to the identification nucleotide sequences,
                                                    53

    WO 2014/200767                                                                  PCT/US2014/040731
thereby determining the presence of one or more target molecules in the sample based on the
detected signals.
     [00204]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can further comprise instructions for
identifying a detectable label corresponding for a plurality of light signals emitted from each
detectable label, wherein a spatial or temporal order of the plurality of the light signals is unique for
each detectable label.
     [00205]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can further comprise instructions for
thresholding the detected signals. For example, the signals can be thresholded on the basis of
nonspecific binding. In some embodiments, the threshold is greater than that of the signals from the
non-specific binding. By way of example only, the threshold can be determined by using standard
deviation and measurement error from at least one control protein. In some embodiments, the
threshold can be at least 50% or more (including, e.g., at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at
least 90%, at least 95%, or higher) greater than that of the signals from the non-specific binding. In
some embodiments, the threshold can be at least 1.1-fold or more (including, e.g., at least 1.2-fold, at
least 1.3-fold, at least 1.4-fold, at least 1.5-fold, at least 2-fold, or higher) greater than that of the
signals from the non-specific binding.
     [00206]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can further comprise instructions for
quantifying the signals by normalizing the signals associated with the target probes by the signals
associated with the control probes. In one embodiment, the signals is quantified and expressed as
number of identification nucleotide sequences detected per target-binding agent.
     [00207]     Depending on the nature of test samples and/or applications of the systems as desired
by users, the display module 610 can further display additional content. In some embodiments where
the test sample is collected or derived from a subject for diagnostic assessment, the content displayed
on the display module 610 can further comprise a signal indicative of a diagnosis of a condition
(e.g., disease or disorder such as cancer)
     [00208]     In some embodiments wherein the test sample is collected or derived from a subject
for selection and/or evaluation of a treatment regimen for a subject, the content can further comprise
a signal indicative of a treatment regimen personalized to the subject. In some embodiments, the
content can further comprise a signal indicative of the treatment response.
     [00209]     A tangible and non-transitory (e.g., no transitory forms of signal transmission)
computer readable medium 700 having computer readable instructions recorded thereon to define
software modules for implementing a method on a computer is also provided herein. In some
embodiments, the computer readable medium 700 stores one or more programs for multiplexed
detection of target molecules in a sample. The one or more programs for execution by one or more
processors of a computer system comprises (a) instructions for determining the presence of one or
                                                       54

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
more target molecules in the sample based on the detected signals from the released identification
nucleotide sequences by performing the following: (i) identifying the detectable probes of the
reporter probes that correspond to the detected signals; (ii) identifying the identification nucleotide
sequences of the target probes that correspond to the detectable probes based on the first target
probe-specific regions of the reporter probes; and (iii) identifying the target-binding molecules that
correspond to the identification nucleotide sequences; and (b) instructions for displaying a content
based in part on the analysis output from said analysis module, wherein the content comprises a
signal indicative of the following: (i) the presence of one or more target molecules in the sample, (ii)
the absence of one or more target molecules in the sample, and/or (iii) expression levels of one or
more target molecules in the sample.
     [00210]     Depending on the nature of test samples and/or applications of the systems as desired
by users, the computer readable storage medium 700 can further comprise instructions for displaying
additional content. In some embodiments where the test sample is collected or derived from a subject
for diagnostic assessment, the content displayed on the display module can further comprise a signal
indicative of a diagnosis of a condition (e.g., disease or disorder) in the subject. In some
embodiments wherein the test sample is collected or derived from a subject for selection and/or
evaluation of a treatment regimen for a subject, the content can further comprise a signal indicative
of a treatment regimen personalized to the subject. In some embodiments, the content can further
comprise a signal indicative of the treatment response.
     [00211]     Embodiments of the systems described herein have been described through
functional modules, which are defined by computer executable instructions recorded on computer
readable media and which cause a computer to perform method steps when executed. The modules
have been segregated by function for the sake of clarity. However, it should be understood that the
modules need not correspond to discrete blocks of code and the described functions can be carried
out by the execution of various code portions stored on various media and executed at various times.
Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the modules may perform other functions, thus the
modules are not limited to having any particular functions or set of functions.
     [00212]     Computing devices typically include a variety of media, which can include
computer-readable storage media and/or communications media, in which these two terms are used
herein differently from one another as follows. Computer-readable storage media or computer
readable media (e.g., 700) can be any available tangible media (e.g., tangible storage media) that can
be accessed by the computer, is typically of a non-transitory nature, and can include both volatile
and nonvolatile media, removable and non-removable media. By way of example, and not limitation,
computer-readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology
for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, program modules, structured data,
                                                    55

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
or unstructured data. Computer-readable storage media can include, but are not limited to, RAM
(random access memory), ROM (read only memory), EEPROM (erasable programmable read only
memory), flash memory or other memory technology, CD-ROM (compact disc read only memory),
DVD (digital versatile disk) or other optical disk storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape,
magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or other tangible and/or non-transitory
media which can be used to store desired information. Computer-readable storage media can be
accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices, e.g., via access requests, queries or
other data retrieval protocols, for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the
medium.
     [00213]     On the other hand, communications media typically embody computer-readable
instructions, data structures, program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data
signal that can be transitory such as a modulated data signal, e.g., a carrier wave or other transport
mechanism, and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term "modulated data
signal" or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a
manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example, and not limitation,
communication media include wired media, such as a wired network or direct-wired connection, and
wireless media such as acoustic, radio frequency (RF), infrared and other wireless media.
     [00214]     In some embodiments, the computer readable storage media 700 can include the
"cloud" system, in which a user can store data on a remote server, and later access the data or
perform further analysis of the data from the remote server.
     [00215]     Computer-readable data embodied on one or more computer-readable media, or
computer readable medium 700, may define instructions, for example, as part of one or more
programs, that, as a result of being executed by a computer, instruct the computer to perform one or
more of the functions described herein (e.g., in relation to system 600, or computer readable medium
700), and/or various embodiments, variations and combinations thereof. Such instructions may be
written in any of a plurality of programming languages, for example, Java, J#, Visual Basic, C, C#,
C++, Fortran, Pascal, Eiffel, Basic, COBOL assembly language, and the like, or any of a variety of
combinations thereof. The computer-readable media on which such instructions are embodied may
reside on one or more of the components of either of system 600, or computer readable medium 700
described herein, may be distributed across one or more of such components, and may be in
transition there between.
     [00216]     The computer-readable media can be transportable such that the instructions stored
thereon can be loaded onto any computer resource to implement the assays and/or methods described
herein. In addition, it should be appreciated that the instructions stored on the computer readable
media, or computer-readable medium 700, described above, are not limited to instructions embodied
                                                     56

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
as part of an application program running on a host computer. Rather, the instructions may be
embodied as any type of computer code (e.g., software or microcode) that can be employed to
program a computer to implement the assays and/or methods described herein. The computer
executable instructions may be written in a suitable computer language or combination of several
languages. Basic computational biology methods are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and
are described in, for example, Setubal and Meidanis et al., Introduction to Computational Biology
Methods (PWS Publishing Company, Boston, 1997); Salzberg, Searles, Kasif, (Ed.), Computational
Methods in Molecular Biology, (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1998); Rashidi and Buehler, Bioinformatics
Basics: Application in Biological Science and Medicine (CRC Press, London, 2000) and Ouelette
and Bzevanis Bioinformatics: A Practical Guide for Analysis of Gene and Proteins (Wiley & Sons,
Inc., 2nd ed., 2001).
     [00217]     The functional modules of certain embodiments of the system or computer system
described herein can include a sample processing module, a signal detection module, a storage
device, an analysis module and a display module. The functional modules can be executed on one, or
multiple, computers, or by using one, or multiple, computer networks. The signal detection module
602 can have computer executable instructions to detect signals from the released identification
nucleotide sequences.
     [00218]     In some embodiments, the signal detection module 602 can have computer
executable instructions to provide sequence information in computer readable form, e.g., for RNA
sequencing. In these embodiments, the system can enable simultaneous measurements of target
molecules (e.g., proteins) and nucleic acid molecules from the same sample. For example, the
integrated expression profiles of the protein and nucleic acid molecules can be used to study proteins
that interact with genetic regulatory elements such as microRNAs. As used herein, "sequence
information" refers to any nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence, including but not limited to full
length nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences, partial nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences, or
mutated sequences. Moreover, information "related to" the sequence information includes detection
of the presence or absence of a sequence (e.g., detection of a mutation or deletion), determination of
the concentration of a sequence in the sample (e.g., amino acid sequence expression levels, or
nucleotide (RNA or DNA) expression levels), and the like. The term "sequence information" is
intended to include the presence or absence of post-translational modifications (e.g. phosphorylation,
glycosylation, summylation, farnesylation, and the like).
     [00219]     As an example, signal detection modules 602 for determining sequence information
may include known systems for automated sequence analysis including but not limited to Hitachi
FMBIO@ and Hitachi FMBIO@ II Fluorescent Scanners (available from Hitachi Genetic Systems,
Alameda, California); Spectrumedix@ SCE 9610 Fully Automated 96-Capillary Electrophoresis
                                                   57

   WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
Genetic Analysis Systems (available from SpectruMedix LLC, State College, Pennsylvania); ABI
PRISM@ 377 DNA Sequencer, ABI@ 373 DNA Sequencer, ABI PRISM@ 310 Genetic Analyzer,
ABI PRISM@ 3100 Genetic Analyzer, and ABI PRISM® 3700 DNA Analyzer (available from
Applied Biosystems, Foster City, California); Molecular Dynamics FluorlmagerTM 575, SI
Fluorescent Scanners, and Molecular Dynamics FluorlmagerTM 595 Fluorescent Scanners (available
from Amersham Biosciences UK Limited, Little Chalfont, Buckinghamshire, England);
GenomyxSC TM DNA Sequencing System (available from Genomyx Corporation (Foster City,
California); and Pharmacia ALFTM DNA Sequencer and Pharmacia ALFexpress TM (available from
Amersham Biosciences UK Limited, Little Chalfont, Buckinghamshire, England).
    [00220]     Alternative methods for determining sequence information, i.e. signal detection
modules 602, include systems for protein and DNA analysis. For example, mass spectrometry
systems including Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization - Time of Flight (MALDI-TOF)
systems and SELDI-TOF-MS ProteinChip array profiling systems; systems for analyzing gene
expression data (see, for example, published U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. U.S. 2003/0194711);
systems for array based expression analysis: e.g., HT array systems and cartridge array systems such
as GeneChip@ AutoLoader, Complete GeneChip@ Instrument System, GeneChip@ Fluidics Station
450, GeneChip@ Hybridization Oven 645, GeneChip@ QC Toolbox Software Kit, GeneChip@
Scanner 3000 7G plus Targeted Genotyping System, GeneChip@ Scanner 3000 7G Whole-Genome
Association System, GeneTitanTM Instrument , and GeneChip@ Array Station (each available from
Affymetrix, Santa Clara, California); automated ELISA systems (e.g., DSX@ or DS2@ (available
from Dynax, Chantilly, VA) or the Triturus@ (available from Grifols USA, Los Angeles,
California), The Mago® Plus (available from Diamedix Corporation, Miami, Florida);
Densitometers (e.g. X-Rite-508-Spectro Densitometer® (available from RP ImagingTM, Tucson,
Arizona), The HYRYSTM 2 HIT densitometer (available from Sebia Electrophoresis, Norcross,
Georgia); automated Fluorescence in situ hybridization systems (see for example, United States
Patent 6,136,540); 2D gel imaging systems coupled with 2-D imaging software; microplate readers;
Fluorescence activated cell sorters (FACS) (e.g. Flow Cytometer FACSVantage SE, (available from
Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey); and radio isotope analyzers (e.g. scintillation
counters).
    [00221]     The signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences determined in the
signal detection module can be read by the storage device 604. As used herein the "storage device"
604 is intended to include any suitable computing or processing apparatus or other device configured
or adapted for storing data or information. Examples of electronic apparatus suitable for use with
the system described herein can include stand-alone computing apparatus, data telecommunications
networks, including local area networks (LAN), wide area networks (WAN), Internet, Intranet, and
                                                   58

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
Extranet, and local and distributed computer processing systems. Storage devices 604 also include,
but are not limited to: magnetic storage media, such as floppy discs, hard disc storage media,
magnetic tape, optical storage media such as CD-ROM, DVD, electronic storage media such as
RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM and the like, general hard disks and hybrids of these categories
such as magnetic/optical storage media. The storage device 604 is adapted or configured for having
recorded thereon sequence information or expression level information. Such information may be
provided in digital form that can be transmitted and read electronically, e.g., via the Internet, on
diskette, via USB (universal serial bus) or via any other suitable mode of communication, e.g., the
"cloud."
     [00222]     As used herein, "expression level information" refers to expression levels of any
target molecules to be measured, e.g., but not limited to, proteins, peptides, lipids, metabolites,
carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells, and any combinations thereof. In
some embodiments, the expression level information can be determined from the detected signals
from the released identification nucleotide sequences corresponding to each target molecule.
     [00223]     As used herein, "stored" refers to a process for encoding information on the storage
device 604. Those skilled in the art can readily adopt any of the presently known methods for
recording information on known media to generate manufactures comprising the sequence
information or expression level information.
     [00224]     A variety of software programs and formats can be used to store the sequence
information or expression level information on the storage device. Any number of data processor
structuring formats (e.g., text file or database) can be employed to obtain or create a medium having
recorded thereon the sequence information or expression level information.
     [00225]     By providing sequence information and/or expression level information in computer
readable form, one can use the sequence information and/or expression level information in readable
form in the analysis module 606 to generate expression profiles for the sample being tested. The
analysis made in computer-readable form provides a computer readable analysis result which can be
processed by a variety of means. Content 608 based on the analysis result can be retrieved from the
analysis module 606 to indicate the presence or absence of one or more target molecules present in a
sample.
     [00226]     The "analysis module" 606 can use a variety of available software programs and
formats for calculating expression profiles of various target molecules. In one embodiment, the
analysis module 606 can calculate proteomic expression profiles as follows. First, raw counts of the
released identification nucleotide sequences can be first normalized by using the nSolver analysis
software to account for hybridization differences on a cartridge, before normalization via the mean
of the internal positive controls, which account for hybridization efficiency. These counts can then
                                                     59

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
be converted to expression values using the relative counts of identification nucleotide sequences per
a target-binding agent (e.g., an antibody). Next, average background signal from control IgG can be
subtracted. Housekeeping genes can then be used for normalization that accounted for cell number
variations. Signals can then be normalized via a housekeeping protein, e.g., GAPDH, actin, and/or
0-tubulin.
     [00227]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can comprise, e.g., MATLAB or
functionally equivalent thereof to generate heat maps and clustergrams with a matrix input of marker
expression values that were calculated as described above. In some embodiments, the clustergrams
can be performed as a weighted linkage. In some embodiments, the clustergrams can be clustered
using correlation values as a distance metric. If a target molecule was not detectable, it can be
removed from the matrix or heat map and is not displayed.
     [00228]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can comprise one or more programs
for analyzing reporter probes and/or capture probes as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,941,279 to
NanoString Technologies, Inc.
     [00229]     In some embodiments, the analysis module 606 can compare protein expression
profiles. Any available comparison software can be used, including but not limited to, the Ciphergen
Express (CE) and Biomarker Patterns Software (BPS) package (available from Ciphergen
Biosystems, Inc., Freemont, California). Comparative analysis can be done with protein chip system
software (e.g., The Protein chip Suite (available from Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules, California).
Algorithms for identifying expression profiles can include the use of optimization algorithms such as
the mean variance algorithm (e.g. JMP Genomics algorithm available from JMP Software Cary,
North Carolina).
     [00230]     The analysis module 606, or any other module of the system described herein, may
include an operating system (e.g., UNIX) on which runs a relational database management system, a
World Wide Web application, and a World Wide Web server. World Wide Web application includes
the executable code necessary for generation of database language statements (e.g., Structured Query
Language (SQL) statements). Generally, the executables will include embedded SQL statements. In
addition, the World Wide Web application may include a configuration file which contains pointers
and addresses to the various software entities that comprise the server as well as the various external
and internal databases which must be accessed to service user requests. The Configuration file also
directs requests for server resources to the appropriate hardware--as may be necessary should the
server be distributed over two or more separate computers. In one embodiment, the World Wide
Web server supports a TCP/IP protocol. Local networks such as this are sometimes referred to as
"Intranets." An advantage of such Intranets is that they allow easy communication with public
domain databases residing on the World Wide Web (e.g., the GenBank or Swiss Pro World Wide
                                                    60

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
Web site). Thus, in a particular embodiment, users can directly access data (via Hypertext links for
example) residing on Internet databases using a HTML interface provided by Web browsers and
Web servers. In another embodiment, users can directly access data residing on the "cloud" provided
by the cloud computing service providers.
     [00231]     The analysis module 606 provides computer readable analysis result that can be
processed in computer readable form by predefined criteria, or criteria defined by a user, to provide a
content based in part on the analysis result that may be stored and output as requested by a user
using a display module 610. The display module 610 enables display of a content 608 based in part
on the comparison result for the user, wherein the content 608 is a signal indicative of the presence
of one or more target molecules in the sample, a signal indicative of the absence of one or more
target molecules in the sample, a signal indicative of expression levels of one or more target
molecules in the sample, or any combinations thereof Such signal, can be for example, a display of
content 608 on a computer monitor, a printed page of content 608 from a printer, or a light or sound
indicative of the absence of a target molecule in a sample.
     [00232]     In various embodiments of the computer system described herein, the analysis
module 606 can be integrated into the signal detection module 602.
     [00233]     Depending on the nature of test samples and/or applications of the systems as desired
by users, the content 608 based on the analysis result can also include a signal indicative of a
diagnosis of a condition (e.g., disease or disorder) in the subject. In some embodiments, the content
608 based on the analysis result can further comprise a signal indicative of a treatment regimen
personalized to the subject. In some embodiments, the content 608 based on the analysis result can
further comprise a signal indicative of a response of a subject to a treatment, which provides a means
of monitoring the treatment response in a subject.
     [00234]     In some embodiments, the content 608 based on the analysis result can include a
graphical representation reflecting the expression profiles of target molecules, e.g., as shown in
Fig. 5.
     [00235]     In one embodiment, the content 608 based on the analysis result is displayed a on a
computer monitor. In one embodiment, the content 608 based on the analysis result is displayed
through printable media. The display module 610 can be any suitable device configured to receive
from a computer and display computer readable information to a user. Non-limiting examples
include, for example, general-purpose computers such as those based on Intel PENTIUM-type
processor, Motorola PowerPC, Sun UltraSPARC, Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC processors, any of a
variety of processors available from Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) of Sunnyvale, California, or
any other type of processor, visual display devices such as flat panel displays, cathode ray tubes and
the like, as well as computer printers of various types.
                                                    61

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00236]     In some embodiments, the content can be displayed on a computer display, a screen,
a monitor, an email, a text message, a website, a physical printout (e.g., paper), or provided as stored
information in a data storage device.
     [00237]     In one embodiment, a World Wide Web browser is used for providing a user
interface for display of the content 608 based on the analysis result. It should be understood that
other modules of the system described herein can be adapted to have a web browser interface.
Through the Web browser, a user may construct requests for retrieving data from the analysis
module. Thus, the user will typically point and click to user interface elements such as buttons, pull
down menus, scroll bars and the like conventionally employed in graphical user interfaces. The
requests so formulated with the user's Web browser are transmitted to a Web application which
formats them to produce a query that can be employed to extract the pertinent information related to
the expression profile of target molecules in a sample, e.g., display of an indication of the presence
or absence of one or more target molecules in the sample, or display of information based thereon.
In one embodiment, the information of the control reference is also displayed.
     [00238]     In any embodiments, the analysis module can be executed by a computer
implemented software as discussed earlier. In such embodiments, a result from the analysis module
can be displayed on an electronic display. The result can be displayed by graphs, numbers,
characters or words. In additional embodiments, the results from the analysis module can be
transmitted from one location to at least one other location. For example, the comparison results can
be transmitted via any electronic media, e.g., internet, fax, phone, a "cloud" system, and any
combinations thereof. Using the "cloud" system, users can store and access personal files and data or
perform further analysis on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium
such as a DVD or thumb drive.
     [00239]     Each of the above identified modules or programs corresponds to a set of instructions
for performing a function described above. These modules and programs (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various
subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In
some embodiments, memory may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above.
Furthermore, memory may store additional modules and data structures not described above.
     [00240]     The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed
computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are
linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program
modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
     [00241]     Moreover, it is to be appreciated that various components described herein can
include electrical circuit(s) that can include components and circuitry elements of suitable value in
                                                     62

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
order to implement the embodiments of the subject innovation(s). Furthermore, it can be appreciated
that many of the various components can be implemented on one or more integrated circuit (IC)
chips. For example, in one embodiment, a set of components can be implemented in a single IC chip.
In other embodiments, one or more of respective components are fabricated or implemented on
separate IC chips.
     [00242]      What has been described above includes examples of the embodiments of the present
invention. It is, of course, not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or
methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter, but it is to be appreciated that
many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly, the
claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations, modifications, and variations that
fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover, the above description of illustrated
embodiments of the subject disclosure, including what is described in the Abstract, is not intended to
be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific
embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes, various modifications are
possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples, as those skilled in
the relevant art can recognize.
     [00243]      In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described
components, devices, circuits, systems and the like, the terms used to describe such components are
intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to any component which performs the specified
function of the described component (e.g., a functional equivalent), even though not structurally
equivalent to the disclosed structure, which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary
aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard, it will also be recognized that the innovation
includes a system as well as a computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable
instructions for performing the acts and/or events of the various methods of the claimed subject
matter.
     [00244]      The aforementioned systems/circuits/modules have been described with respect to
interaction between several components/blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems/circuits and
components/blocks can include those components or specified sub-components, some of the
specified components or sub-components, and/or additional components, and according to various
permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub-components can also be implemented as
components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent
components (hierarchical). Additionally, it should be noted that one or more components may be
combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate
sub-components, and any one or more middle layers, such as a management layer, may be provided
to communicatively couple to such sub-components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any
                                                      63

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically
described herein but known by those of skill in the art.
     [00245]     In addition, while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been
disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations, such feature may be combined with
one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any
given or particular application. Furthermore, to the extent that the terms "includes," "including,"
"has," "contains," variants thereof, and other similar words are used in either the detailed description
or the claims, these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term "comprising"
as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.
     [00246]     As used in this application, the terms "component," "module," "system," or the like
are generally intended to refer to a computer-related entity, either hardware (e.g., a circuit), a
combination of hardware and software, software, or an entity related to an operational machine with
one or more specific functionalities. For example, a component may be, but is not limited to being, a
process running on a processor (e.g., digital signal processor), a processor, an object, an executable,
a thread of execution, a program, and/or a computer. By way of illustration, both an application
running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside
within a process and/or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer
and/or distributed between two or more computers. Further, a "device" can come in the form of
specially designed hardware; generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software
thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function; software stored on a computer
readable medium; or a combination thereof
     [00247]     In view of the exemplary systems described above, methodologies that may be
implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with
reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. For simplicity of explanation, the methodologies
are depicted and described as a series of acts. However, acts in accordance with this disclosure can
occur in various orders and/or concurrently, and with other acts not presented and described herein.
Furthermore, not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance
with the disclosed subject matter. In addition, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate
that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state
diagram or events. Additionally, it should be appreciated that the methodologies disclosed in this
specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and
transferring such methodologies to computing devices. The term article of manufacture, as used
herein, is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable device
or storage media.
                                                     64

    WO 2014/200767                                                                     PCT/US2014/040731
     [00248]      The system 600, and computer readable medium 700, are merely illustrative
embodiments, e.g., for multiplexed detection of target molecules in a sample and/or for use in the
methods of various aspects described herein and is not intended to limit the scope of the inventions
described herein. Variations of system 600, and computer readable medium 700, are possible and
are intended to fall within the scope of the inventions described herein.
     [00249]      The modules of the machine, or used in the computer readable medium, may assume
numerous configurations. For example, function may be provided on a single machine or distributed
over multiple machines.
Kits, e.g., for multiplexed detection of target molecules in a sample
     [00250]      Kits, e.g., for multiplexed detection of different target molecules from a sample, are
also provided herein. In some embodiments, the kit comprises (a) a plurality of target probes in
accordance with one or more embodiments described herein; and (b) a plurality of reporter probes in
accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.
     [00251]      In some embodiments, each subset of the target probes in the plurality binds to a
different target molecule, wherein the target probes in the subset comprise the same target-binding
molecule. That is, no two target probes in the subset binds to different regions of the same target
molecule.
     [00252]      In some embodiments, the kit comprises at least 3 or more (including at least 4, at
least 5, at least 10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at
least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 150, at least 200, at least 250 or more) different target
probes described herein, wherein each target probe specifically binds to a different target molecule.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the kit further comprises at least 3 or more (including at least 4,
at least 5, at least 10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70,
at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 150, at least 200, at least 250 or more) different reporter
probes, wherein each reporter probe identifies a distinct target probe.
     [00253]      In some embodiments, depending on the design of the identification nucleotide
sequences of the target probes, the kit can further comprise at least one or more (including at least 4,
at least 5, at least 10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70,
at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 150, at least 200, at least 250 or more) capture probes
described herein. In some embodiments, the same capture probe can be used, e.g., for
immobilization of different identification nucleotide sequences to a solid substrate surface for
visualization and/or imaging. In some embodiments, different capture probes can be used, e.g., for
immobilization of different identification nucleotide sequences to a solid substrate surface for
visualization and/or imaging.
                                                         65

    WO 2014/200767                                                                   PCT/US2014/040731
     [00254]     In some embodiments, reporter probes and capture probes can be provided in the kit
individually or in a mixture.
     [00255]     In some embodiments, the target-binding molecules of the target probes can
comprise antibodies or fragments thereof. In some embodiments, the antibodies or fragments thereof
can be selected from Table 1.
     [00256]     In some embodiments, the cleavable linker of the target probes can comprise a
photocleavable linker. In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can be selected from the
molecules (i)-(xiv) as shown earlier. In some embodiments, the photocleavable linker can comprise
molecule (xiv).
     [00257]     In some embodiments, the detectable label of the reporter probes can comprise one
or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe. An exemplary unique
signal can be an optical signal. The optical signal can comprise one or a series or a sequence of light
emitting signals. In these embodiments, non-limiting examples of the labeling molecules include
fluorochrome moieties, fluorescent moieties, dye moieties, chemiluminescent moieties, and any
combinations thereof.
     [00258]     In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise a plurality of (e.g., at least 2 or
more, including, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7 or more) control probes in
accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.
     [00259]     In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise reagents for detecting a plurality
of nucleic acid molecules. Example reagents for nucleic acid detection and analysis can include, but
are not limited to, nucleic acid polymerase, primers, nucleotides, an agent for nucleic acid extraction,
a buffered solution, control nucleic acid sequences, and any combination thereof. Such kit can be
used to generate an integrated profiling that combines both target molecule (e.g., protein) and
genetic material information (e.g., DNA, RNA, epigenetic, and microRNAs). Thus, the kit can be
used to study target molecules that interact with genetic materials such as genetic regulatory
elements.
     [002601      In some embodiments, the kit can further comprise at least one reagent for use in
one or more embodiments of the methods or systems described herein. Reagents that can be
provided in the kit can include at least one or more of the following: a hybridization reagent, a
purification reagent, an immobilization reagent, an imaging agent, a cell permeabilization agent, a
blocking agent, a cleaving agent for the cleavable linker, and any combinations thereof.
     [00261]     In some embodiments, the kit can further include at least one or more devices (e.g.,
sample cartridges or microfluidic devices) or tubes for use in one or more embodiments of the
methods and/or systems described herein. In some embodiments, the device can comprise a surface
for immobilization of the capture probes upon coupling to the identification nucleotide sequences. In
                                                       66

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
some embodiments, the device can comprise a microfluidic device for separating target cells from
interfering cells as described herein. For example, a microfluidic device for magnetic separation of
target cells or interfering cells from a sample as described in the International Pat. App. No. WO
2013/078332, the content of which are incorporated herein by reference, can be included in the kit.
     [00262]      In some embodiments, the kit can further include a computer-readable (non
transitory) storage medium in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein. For
example, in one embodiment, the computer-readable (non-transitory) storage medium included in
the kit can provide instructions to determine the presence or expression levels of one or more target
molecules in a sample. The computer-readable (non-transitory) storage medium can be in a CD,
DVD, and/or USB drive.
     [00263]      In all such embodiments of the aspect, the kit includes the necessary packaging
materials and informational material therein to store and use said kits. The informational material
can be descriptive, instructional, marketing or other material that relates to the methods described
herein and/or the use of an agent(s) described herein for the methods described herein. In one
embodiment, the informational material can include instructions to perform a multiplexed detection
of target molecules in a sample. In one embodiment, the information material can include
instructions to analyze the signal readouts.
     [00264]      The informational material of the kits is not limited in its form. In many cases, the
informational material, e.g., instructions, is provided in printed matter, e.g., a printed text, drawing,
and/or photograph, e.g., a label or printed sheet. However, the informational material can also be
provided in other formats, such as Braille, computer readable material, video recording, or audio
recording. In another embodiment, the informational material of the kit is contact information, e.g., a
physical address, email address, website, or telephone number, where a user of the kit can obtain
substantive information about a compound described herein and/or its use in the methods described
herein. Of course, the informational material can also be provided in any combination of formats.
     [00265]      In all embodiments of the aspects described herein, the kit will typically be provided
with its various elements included in one package, e.g., a fiber-based, e.g., a cardboard, or
polymeric, e.g., a styrofoam box. The enclosure can be configured so as to maintain a temperature
differential between the interior and the exterior, e.g., it can provide insulating properties to keep the
reagents at a preselected temperature for a preselected time. The kit can include one or more
containers for the composition containing a compound(s) described herein. In some embodiments,
the kit contains separate containers (e.g., two separate containers for the two agents), dividers or
compartments for the composition(s) and informational material. For example, the composition can
be contained in a bottle, vial, or syringe, and the informational material can be contained in a plastic
sleeve or packet. In other embodiments, the separate elements of the kit are contained within a
                                                     67

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
single, undivided container. For example, the composition is contained in a bottle, vial or syringe
that has attached thereto the informational material in the form of a label. In some embodiments, the
kit includes a plurality (e.g., a pack) of individual containers, each containing one or more unit usage
forms of target probes described herein. For example, the kit includes a plurality of syringes,
ampules, foil packets, or blister packs, each containing a single unit usage of target probes described
herein. The containers of the kits can be air tight, waterproof (e.g., impermeable to changes in
moisture or evaporation), and/or light-tight.
Exemplary uses of the methods, systems and kits described herein
     [00266]     The methods, systems and kits described herein can be used in any applications
where detection of a plurality of target molecules in a sample is desirable. For example, a sample can
be a biological sample, or a sample from an environmental source (e.g., water, soil, food products,
and/or ponds). Other samples that can be analyzed with the methods, systems, and kits described
herein are discussed in the "Sample" section below.
     [00267]     The inventors have demonstrated that, in one embodiment, an antibody barcoding
with photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform described herein can enable analysis of hundreds of
proteins from a single cell or a limited number of cells, e.g., from minimally invasive fine-needle
aspirates (FNAs). Accordingly, samples amenable to the methods described herein can comprise less
than 500 cells or fewer. In some embodiments, the sample can comprise less than 400 cells, less than
300 cells, less than 200 cells, less than 100 cells, less than 50 cells, less than 25 cells, less than 5
cells or fewer. In some embodiments, the sample can be a single-cell sample. In some embodiments,
the sample can comprise cells isolated from a fine-needle aspirate.
     [00268]     Where the sample is a biological sample, in some aspects, the methods, systems and
kits described herein can be used in personalized treatment. For example, a biological sample can be
collected from an individual subject who is in need of a treatment for a condition. Using the
methods, systems and/or kits described herein, an expression profile of target molecules associated
with the subject's condition can be generated to identify one or more therapeutic targets for the
subject, thereby identifying a treatment regimen for the subject. Accordingly, methods for
identifying a treatment regimen for an individual subject are also provided herein. In this aspect, the
method comprises: (i) contacting a sample derived from a subject who is in need of a treatment for a
condition, with a composition comprising a plurality of target probes that bind to target molecules
associated with the condition; (ii) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the bound
target probes; (iii) detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein
the signals are distinguishable for the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the
corresponding target-binding molecules and determining the presence of one or more target
                                                     68

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
molecules in the sample; and (iv) generating an expression profile of the target molecules detected
by the target probes, thereby selecting a treatment regimen for the individual subject based on the
expression profile. The methods can be applied to any condition described in the later section. In
some embodiments, the condition is cancer. In some embodiments, the signals from the released
identification nucleotide sequences are not detected by gel electrophoresis-based methods.
     [00269]     In some aspects, the methods, systems and kits described herein can be used to assess
how drug dosing corresponds to cellular pharmacodynamics and thus used in monitoring response of
a subject to a treatment for his/her condition. For example, biological sample(s) can be collected
from the subject prior to and/or over the course of the treatment. Using the methods, systems and/or
kits described herein, expression profiles of target molecules associated with the subject's condition
before and/or over the course of the treatment can be generated for comparison to determine any
changes in expression levels of the target molecules in the subject, thereby monitoring the treatment
response in the subject. Accordingly, another aspect provided herein relates to a method of
monitoring a treatment for a condition in a subject. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample
derived from a subject after a treatment for a condition, with a composition comprising a plurality of
target probes that bind to target molecules associated with the condition; (ii) releasing the
identification nucleotide sequences from the bound target probes; (iii) detecting signals from the
released identification nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the released
identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target-binding molecules
and determining the presence of one or more target molecules in the sample; (iv) generating an
expression profile of the target molecules detected by the target probes; (v) comparing the
expression profile with an expression profile generated from a sample derived from the same subject
prior to the treatment or after treatment at an earlier time point; and (vi) determining changes in
expression levels of the target molecules, thereby monitoring the treatment for the condition in the
subject. In some embodiments, the signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences are
not detected by gel electrophoresis-based methods.
     [00270]     In some embodiments, the method can further comprise administering an alternative
treatment for the condition, when there are no substantial changes in expression levels of the target
molecules or the changes in expression levels of the target molecules do not represent a reduction in
symptoms associated with the condition.
     [00271]     In some embodiments, the method can further comprise continuing the same
treatment for the condition, when the changes in expression levels of the target molecules represent a
reduction in symptoms associated with the condition.
     [00272]     In some aspects, the methods, systems and kits described herein can be used in
diagnosing a condition in a subject. For example, a biological sample can be collected from a subject
                                                     69

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
who is at risk for a condition. Using the methods, systems and/or kits described herein, an expression
profile of target molecules associated with the condition to be diagnosed can be generated for
comparison with one or more reference expression profiles (e.g., corresponding to a normal healthy
subject and/or a subject having the condition to be diagnosed), thereby determining whether the
subject is at risk for the condition. Accordingly, provided here is also a method for diagnosing a
condition in a subject. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample derived from a subject who is
at risk for a condition, with a composition comprising a plurality of target probes that bind to target
molecules associated with the condition; (ii) releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from
the bound target probes; (iii) detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences,
wherein the signals are distinguishable for the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby
identifying the corresponding target-binding molecules and determining the presence of one or more
target molecules in the sample; (iv) generating an expression profile of the target molecules detected
by the target probes, (v) comparing the expression profile to at least one reference expression profile,
thereby determining whether the subject is at risk for the condition. In some embodiments, the
signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences are not detected by gel electrophoresis
based methods.
     [00273]      In some embodiments, a reference expression profile is associated with the
condition. In some embodiments, a reference expression profile is associated with a normal healthy
subj ect.
     [00274]      In some embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to determine
intratumoral heterogeneity, which can be used as a biomarker for diagnosis and/or prognosis.
Conditions (e.g., diseases or disorders)amenable to diagnosis,prognosis/monitoring,and/or
treatment using methods, systems, kits, or various aspects describedherein
     [00275]      Different embodiments of the methods, systems and/or kits described herein can be
used for diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease or disorder in a subject, e.g., a condition afflicting a
certain tissue in a subject. For example, the disease or disorder in a subject can be associated with
breast, pancreas, blood, prostate, colon, lung, skin, brain, ovary, kidney, oral cavity, throat,
cerebrospinal fluid, liver, or other tissues, and any combination thereof.
     [00276]      In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a breast disease or disorder.
Exemplary breast disease or disorder includes breast cancer.
     [00277]      In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a pancreatic disease or disorder.
Nonlimiting examples of pancreatic diseases or disorders include acute pancreatitis, chronic
                                                     70

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
pancreatitis, hereditary pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer (e.g., endocrine or exocrine tumors), etc., and
any combinations thereof
     [00278]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a blood disease or disorder.
Examples of blood disease or disorder include, but are not limited to, platelet disorders, von
Willebrand diseases, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, sickle cell anemia, thalassemia,
anemia, aplastic anemia, fanconi anemia, hemochromatosis, hemolytic anemia, hemophilia,
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, iron deficiency anemia, pernicious anemia, polycythemia
vera, thrombocythemia and thrombocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and any combinations thereof.
     [00279]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a prostate disease or disorder. Non
limiting examples of a prostate disease or disorder can include prostatis, prostatic hyperplasia,
prostate cancer, and any combinations thereof.
     [00280]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a colon disease or disorder.
Exemplary colon diseases or disorders can include, but are not limited to, colorectal cancer, colonic
polyps, ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis, and any combinations thereof.
     [00281]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a lung disease or disorder. Examples
of lung diseases or disorders can include, but are not limited to, asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, infections, e.g., influenza, pneumonia and tuberculosis, and lung cancer.
     [00282]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a skin disease or disorder, or a skin
condition. An exemplary skin disease or disorder can include skin cancer.
     [00283]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a brain or mental disease or disorder
(or neural disease or disorder). Examples of brain diseases or disorders (or neural disease or
disorder) can include, but are not limited to, brain infections (e.g., meningitis, encephalitis, brain
abscess), brain tumor, glioblastoma, stroke, ischemic stroke, multiple sclerosis (MS), vasculitis, and
neurodegenerative disorders (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Pick's disease,
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), dementia, and Alzheimer's disease), Timothy syndrome, Rett
symdrome, Fragile X, autism, schizophrenia, spinal muscular atrophy, frontotemporal dementia, any
combinations thereof.
     [00284]     In some embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include a liver disease or disorder. Examples
                                                     71

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
of liver diseases or disorders can include, but are not limited to, hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver cancer,
biliary cirrhosis, fatty liver, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), fibrosis, primary sclerosing
cholangitis, Budd-Chiari syndrome, hemochromatosis, transthyretin-related hereditary amyloidosis,
Gilbert's syndrome, and any combinations thereof.
     [00285]     In other embodiments, the condition (e.g., disease or disorder) amenable to diagnosis
and/or treatment using any aspects described herein can include cancer. A "cancer" or "tumor" as
used herein refers to an uncontrolled growth of cells which interferes with the normal functioning of
the bodily organs and systems. A subject that has a cancer or a tumor is a subject having objectively
measurable cancer cells present in the subject's body. Included in this definition are benign and
malignant cancers, as well as dormant tumors or micrometastases. Cancers which migrate from their
original location and seed vital organs can eventually lead to the death of the subject through the
functional deterioration of the affected organs. Hemopoietic cancers, such as leukemia, are able to
out-compete the normal hemopoietic compartments in a subject, thereby leading to hemopoietic
failure (in the form of anemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia) ultimately causing death.
     [00286]     By "metastasis" is meant the spread of cancer from its primary site to other places in
the body. Cancer cells can break away from a primary tumor, penetrate into lymphatic and blood
vessels, circulate through the bloodstream, and grow in a distant focus (metastasize) in normal
tissues elsewhere in the body. Metastasis can be local or distant. Metastasis is a sequential process,
contingent on tumor cells breaking off from the primary tumor, traveling through the bloodstream,
and stopping at a distant site. At the new site, the cells establish a blood supply and can grow to form
a life-threatening mass. Both stimulatory and inhibitory molecular pathways within the tumor cell
regulate this behavior, and interactions between the tumor cell and host cells in the distant site are
also significant.
     [00287]     Metastases are most often detected through the sole or combined use of magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) scans, computed tomography (CT) scans, blood and platelet counts, liver
function studies, chest X-rays and bone scans in addition to the monitoring of specific symptoms.
     [00288]     Examples of cancer include, but are not limited to carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma,
sarcoma, and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include, but are not limited to,
basal cell carcinoma, biliary tract cancer; bladder cancer; bone cancer; brain and CNS cancer; breast
cancer; cancer of the peritoneum; cervical cancer; choriocarcinoma; colon and rectum cancer;
connective tissue cancer; cancer of the digestive system; endometrial cancer; esophageal cancer; eye
cancer; cancer of the head and neck; gastric cancer (including gastrointestinal cancer); glioblastoma;
hepatic carcinoma; hepatoma; intra-epithelial neoplasm; kidney or renal cancer; larynx cancer;
leukemia; liver cancer; lung cancer (e.g., small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
adenocarcinoma of the lung, and squamous carcinoma of the lung); lymphoma including Hodgkin's
                                                     72

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; melanoma; myeloma; neuroblastoma; oral cavity cancer (e.g., lip,
tongue, mouth, and pharynx); ovarian cancer; pancreatic cancer; prostate cancer; retinoblastoma;
rhabdomyosarcoma; rectal cancer; cancer of the respiratory system; salivary gland carcinoma;
sarcoma; skin cancer; squamous cell cancer; stomach cancer; testicular cancer; thyroid cancer;
uterine or endometrial cancer; cancer of the urinary system; vulval cancer; as well as other
carcinomas and sarcomas; as well as B-cell lymphoma (including low grade/follicular non
Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL); small lymphocytic (SL) NHL; intermediate grade/follicular NHL;
intermediate grade diffuse NHL; high grade immunoblastic NHL; high grade lymphoblastic NHL;
high grade small non-cleaved cell NHL; bulky disease NHL; mantle cell lymphoma; AIDS-related
lymphoma; and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia); chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL); Hairy cell leukemia; chronic myeloblastic leukemia; and post
transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD), as well as abnormal vascular proliferation
associated with phakomatoses, edema (such as that associated with brain tumors), and Meigs'
syndrome.
     [00289]     In some embodiments, the methods and systems described herein can be used for
determining in a subject a given stage of cancer, e.g., based on the expression profiling generated
using the methods described herein. The stage of a cancer generally describes the extent the cancer
has progressed and/or spread. The stage usually takes into account the size of a tumor, how deeply
the tumor has penetrated, whether the tumor has invaded adjacent organs, how many lymph nodes
the tumor has metastasized to (if any), and whether the tumor has spread to distant organs. Staging
of cancer is generally used to assess prognosis of cancer as a predictor of survival, and cancer
treatment is primarily determined by staging.
Sample
     [00290]     In accordance with various embodiments described herein, a sample, including any
fluid or specimen (processed or unprocessed) or other biological sample, can be subjected to the
methods of various aspects described herein.
     [00291]     In some embodiments, the sample can include a biological fluid obtained from a
subject. Exemplary biological fluids obtained from a subject can include, but are not limited to,
blood (including whole blood, plasma, cord blood and serum), lactation products (e.g., milk),
amniotic fluids (e.g., a sample collected during amniocentesis), sputum, saliva, urine, peritoneal
fluid, pleural fluid, semen, cerebrospinal fluid, bronchial aspirate, perspiration, mucus, liquefied
feces or stool samples, synovial fluid, lymphatic fluid, tears, tracheal aspirate, and fractions thereof.
In some embodiments, a biological fluid can include a homogenate of a tissue specimen (e.g.,
biopsy) from a subject. In one embodiment, a test sample can comprises a suspension obtained from
                                                    73

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
homogenization of a solid sample obtained from a solid organ or a fragment thereof. In some
embodiments, a sample can be obtained from a mucosal swab. In some embodiments, a sample can
be obtained from a tissue biopsy (e.g. but not limited to skin biopsy). In some embodiments, a
sample can be a fine needle aspirate.
     [00292]     In some embodiments, a sample can be obtained from a subject who has or is
suspected of having a disease or disorder. In some embodiments, the sample can be obtained from a
subject who has or is suspected of having cancer, or who is suspected of having a risk of developing
cancer.
     [00293]     In some embodiments, a sample can be obtained from a subject who is being treated
for a disease or disorder. In other embodiments, the sample can be obtained from a subject whose
previously-treated disease or disorder is in remission. In other embodiments, the test sample can be
obtained from a subject who has a recurrence of a previously-treated disease or disorder. For
example, in the case of cancer such as breast cancer, a test sample can be obtained from a subject
who is undergoing a cancer treatment, or whose cancer was treated and is in remission, or who has
cancer recurrence.
     [00294]     As used herein, a "subject" can mean a human or an animal. Examples of subjects
include primates (e.g., humans, and monkeys). Usually the animal is a vertebrate such as a primate,
rodent, domestic animal or game animal. Primates include chimpanzees, cynomologous monkeys,
spider monkeys, and macaques, e.g., Rhesus. Rodents include mice, rats, woodchucks, ferrets,
rabbits and hamsters. Domestic and game animals include cows, horses, pigs, deer, bison, buffalo,
feline species, e.g., domestic cat, canine species, e.g., dog, fox, wolf, and avian species, e.g.,
chicken, emu, ostrich. A patient or a subject includes any subset of the foregoing, e.g., all of the
above, or includes one or more groups or species such as humans, primates or rodents. In certain
embodiments of the aspects described herein, the subject is a mammal, e.g., a primate, e.g., a human.
The terms, "patient" and "subject" are used interchangeably herein. A subject can be male or female.
The term "patient" and "subject" does not denote a particular age. Thus, any mammalian subjects
from adult to newborn subjects, as well as fetuses, are intended to be covered.
     [00295]     In one embodiment, the subject or patient is a mammal. The mammal can be a
human, non-human primate, mouse, rat, dog, cat, horse, or cow, but are not limited to these
examples. In one embodiment, the subject is a human being. In another embodiment, the subject can
be a domesticated animal and/or pet.
     [00296]     In some embodiments, a sample that can be analyzed by the methods, systems and
kits described herein can be obtained from an environmental source. Examples of an environmental
source include, but are not limited to, water, soil, food products, ponds, reservoir, and any
combinations thereof.
                                                     74

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
Linkers
     [00297]     As used herein, the term "linker" generally refers to a molecular entity that can
directly or indirectly connect at two parts of a composition. For example, in some embodiments with
respect to a reporter probe, the linker directly or indirectly connects a first target probe-specific
region to a detectable label described herein. In some embodiments with respect to a capture probe,
the linker directly or indirectly connects a second target probe-specific region to an affinity tag
described herein. In some embodiments with respect to a target probe, the linker directly or
indirectly connects an identification nucleotide sequence to a target-binding molecule. In some
embodiments with respect to a control probe, the linker directly or indirectly connects an
identification control sequence to a control-binding molecule.
     [00298]     In some embodiments, a linker can comprise a peptide or nucleic acid linker. The
peptide or nucleic acid linker can be configured to have a sequence comprising at least one of the
amino acids selected from the group consisting of glycine (Gly), serine (Ser), asparagine (Asn),
threonine (Thr), methionine (Met) or alanine (Ala), or at least one of codon sequences encoding the
aforementioned amino acids (i.e., Gly, Ser, Asn, Thr, Met or Ala). Such amino acids and
corresponding nucleic acid sequences are generally used to provide flexibility of a linker. However,
in some embodiments, other uncharged polar amino acids (e.g., Gln, Cys or Tyr), nonpolar amino
acids (e.g., Val, Leu, Ile, Pro, Phe, and Trp), or nucleic acid sequences encoding the amino acids
thereof can also be included in a linker sequence. In alternative embodiments, polar amino acids or
nucleic acid sequence thereof can be added to modulate the flexibility of a linker. One of skill in the
art can control flexibility of a linker by varying the types and numbers of residues in the linker. See,
e.g., Perham, 30 Biochem. 8501 (1991); Wriggers et al., 80 Biopolymers 736 (2005).
     [00299]     In alternative embodiments, a linker can comprise a chemical linker of any length. In
some embodiments, chemical linkers can comprise a direct bond or an atom such as oxygen or
sulfur, a unit such as NH, C(O), C(O)NH, SO, SO 2 , SO2NH, or a chain of atoms, such as substituted
or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl,
arylalkyl, arylalkenyl, arylalkynyl, heteroarylalkyl, heteroarylalkenyl, heteroarylalkynyl,
heterocyclylalkyl, heterocyclylalkenyl, heterocyclylalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl,
cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, alkylarylalkyl, alkylarylalkenyl, alkylarylalkynyl, alkenylarylalkyl,
alkenylarylalkenyl, alkenylarylalkynyl, alkynylarylalkyl, alkynylarylalkenyl, alkynylarylalkynyl,
alkylheteroarylalkyl, alkylheteroarylalkenyl, alkylheteroarylalkynyl, alkenylheteroarylalkyl,
alkenylheteroarylalkenyl, alkenylheteroarylalkynyl, alkynylheteroarylalkyl,
alkynylheteroarylalkenyl, alkynylheteroarylalkynyl, alkylheterocyclylalkyl,
alkylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkylhererocyclylalkynyl, alkenylheterocyclylalkyl,
                                                     75

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
alkenylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkenylheterocyclylalkynyl, alkynylheterocyclylalkyl,
alkynylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkynylheterocyclylalkynyl, alkylaryl, alkenylaryl, alkynylaryl,
alkylheteroaryl, alkenylheteroaryl, alkynylhereroaryl, where one or more methylenes can be
interrupted or terminated by 0, S, S(O), SO 2 , NH, C(O)N(R) 2 , C(O), cleavable linker, substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclic;
where R 1 is hydrogen, acyl, aliphatic or substituted aliphatic. In some embodiments, the chemical
linker can be a polymer chain (branched or linear).
     [00300]      In some embodiments, the chemical linker can comprise a stable or labile (e.g.,
cleavable) bond or conjugation agent. Exemplary conjugations include, but are not limited to,
covalent bond, amide bond, additions to carbon-carbon multiple bonds, azide alkyne Huisgen
cycloaddition, Diels-Alder reaction, disulfide linkage, ester bond, Michael additions, silane bond,
urethane, nucleophilic ring opening reactions: epoxides, non-aldol carbonyl chemistry, cycloaddition
reactions: 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition, temperature sensitive, radiation (IR, near-IR, UV) sensitive
bond or conjugation agent, pH-sensitive bond or conjugation agent, non-covalent bonds (e.g., ionic
charge complex formation, hydrogen bonding, pi-pi interactions, cyclodextrin/adamantly host guest
interaction) and the like.
     [00301]      As used herein, the term "conjugation agent" means an organic moiety that connects
two parts of a compound. Without limitations, any conjugation chemistry known in the art for
conjugating two molecules or different parts of a composition together can be used for coupling two
parts of a compound. Exemplary coupling molecules and/or functional groups for coupling two
parts of a compound include, but are not limited to, a polyethylene glycol (PEG, NH2-PEGX-COOH
which can have a PEG spacer arm of various lengths X, where 1 < X < 100, e.g., PEG-2K, PEG-5K,
PEG-10K, PEG-12K, PEG-15K, PEG-20K, PEG-40K, and the like), maleimide conjugation agent,
PASylation, HESylation, Bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) suberate conjugation agent, DNA conjugation
agent, peptide conjugation agent, silane conjugation agent, hydrolyzable conjugation agent, and any
combinations thereof.
     [00302]      In some embodiments, the linker includes a coupling molecule pair. The terms
"coupling molecule pair" and "coupling pair" as used interchangeably herein refer to the first and
second molecules that specifically bind to each other. One member of the coupling pair is conjugated
to a first entity while the second member is conjugated to a second entity, which is desired to be
connected to the first entity. By way of example only, the first entity can be a detectable label of a
reporter probe described herein, and the second entity can be a first target probe-specific region of
the reporter probe. Thus, the detectable label can be coupled to the first target probe-specific region
via a coupling molecule pair. As another example, a solid substrate surface can comprise a first
member of the coupling pair, while an affinity tag of a capture probe described here can comprise a
                                                    76

     WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
 second member of the coupling pair. As used herein, the phrase "first and second molecules that
 specifically bind to each other" refers to binding of the first member of the coupling pair to the
 second member of the coupling pair with greater affinity and specificity than to other molecules.
      [00303]     Exemplary coupling molecule pairs include, without limitations, any haptenic or
 antigenic compound in combination with a corresponding antibody or binding portion or fragment
 thereof (e.g., digoxigenin and anti-digoxigenin; mouse immunoglobulin and goat antimouse
 immunoglobulin) and nonimmunological binding pairs (e.g., biotin-avidin, biotin-streptavidin),
 hormone (e.g., thyroxine and cortisol-hormone binding protein), receptor-receptor agonist, receptor
 receptor antagonist (e.g., acetylcholine receptor-acetylcholine or an analog thereof), IgG-protein A,
 lectin-carbohydrate, enzyme-enzyme cofactor, enzyme-enzyme inhibitor, and complementary
 oligonucleotide pairs capable of forming nucleic acid duplexes). The coupling molecule pair can also
 include a first molecule that is negatively charged and a second molecule that is positively charged.
      [00304]     One example of using coupling pair conjugation is the biotin-avidin or biotin
 streptavidin conjugation. In this approach, a first entity is biotinylated (i.e., the first entity comprise
 a biotin molecule) and a second entity desired to be connected to the first entity can comprise an
 avidin or streptavidin. Many commercial kits are also available for biotinylating molecules, such as
 proteins. For example, an aminooxy-biotin (AOB) can be used to covalently attach biotin to a
 molecule with an aldehyde or ketone group.
      [00305]     Still another example of using coupling pair conjugation is double-stranded nucleic
 acid conjugation. In this approach, a first entity can comprise a first strand of the double-stranded
 nucleic acid and a second entity desired to be connected to the first entity can comprise a second
 strand of the double-stranded nucleic acid. Nucleic acids can include, without limitation, defined
 sequence segments and sequences comprising nucleotides, ribonucleotides, deoxyribonucleotides,
 nucleotide analogs, modified nucleotides and nucleotides comprising backbone modifications,
 branchpoints and nonnucleotide residues, groups or bridges.
      [00306]     In some embodiments, a linker can be a physical substrate, e.g., microparticles or
 magnetic particles.
      [00307]     The linkers can be of any shape. In some embodiments, the linkers can be linear.
 In some embodiments, the linkers can be folded. In some embodiments, the linkers can be
 branched. In other embodiments, the linker adopts the shape of the physical substrate.
      [00308]     In some embodiments, the linker can comprise a cleavable linker described
 herein.
      [00309]     Embodiments of various aspects described herein can be defined in any of the
following numberedparagraphs:
 1.    A method for detecting a plurality of target molecules in a sample comprising:
                                                     77

   WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
    a. contacting a sample with a composition comprising a plurality of target probes, wherein each
       target probe in the plurality comprises:
           i.  a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a distinct target molecule in the
               sample;
          ii.  an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding molecule; and
         iii.  a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification
               nucleotide sequence;
    b. separating unbound target probes from a plurality of complexes in the sample, each complex
       having a target molecule and a single target probe bound thereto, wherein the complex does
       not have a second target probe binding to a different region of the target molecule;
    c. releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the plurality of complexes;
    d. detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences based on a non-gel
       electrophoresis method, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the identification
       nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target-binding molecules and
       detecting a plurality of different target molecules in the sample.
2.  The method of paragraph 1, wherein the non-gel electrophoresis method comprises sequencing,
    quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed (PCR), mass cytometry,
    fluorophore-inactivated multiplexed immunofluorescence, hybridization-based methods,
    fluorescence hybridization-based methods, or any combinations thereof
3.  The method of paragraph 1 or 2, further comprising, prior to the detecting step (d), coupling the
    released identification nucleotide sequences from the releasing step (c) to a detection
    composition comprising a plurality of reporter probes, wherein each reporter probe in the
    plurality comprises: a first target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a first portion
    of the identification nucleotide sequence; and a detectable label that identifies the reporter
    probe.
4.  The method of paragraph 3, wherein the detecting comprises detecting signals from the
    respective detectable labels of the reporter probes that are coupled to the released identification
    nucleotide sequences, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the respective reporter probes
    and bound the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target
    binding molecules and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
5.  The method of paragraph 3 or 4, wherein the detection composition further comprises a
    plurality of capture probes, wherein each capture probe comprises (i) a second target probe
    specific region that is capable of binding a second portion of the identification nucleotide
    sequence; and (ii) an affinity tag.
                                                   78

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
6.   The method of paragraph 5, wherein the affinity tag of the capture probe permits
     immobilization of the released identification nucleotide sequences onto a solid substrate, upon
     coupling to the detection composition.
7.   The method of any of paragraphs 3-6, wherein the detectable label of the reporter probes
     comprises one or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe.
8.   The method of paragraph 7, wherein the unique signal is an optical signal.
9.   The method of paragraph 8, wherein the optical signal comprises a sequence of light-emitting
     signals.
10. The method of any of paragraphs 7-9, wherein the one or more labeling molecules are selected
     from the group consisting of a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a
     chemiluminescent moiety, and any combinations thereof
11.  The method of any of paragraphs 1-10, wherein the detecting step (d) comprises no
     amplification of the released identification nucleotide sequences.
12. The method of any of paragraphs 3-11, wherein the detecting step (d) comprises no
     amplification of the first target probe-specific region, or the second target probe-specific region.
13. The method of any of paragraphs 1-12, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences are
     selected such that they do not cross-react with a human genome.
14. The method of paragraph 13, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences are derived from a
     potato genome.
15. The method of any of paragraphs 1-14, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a
     length of about 30-100 nucleotides.
16. The method of any of paragraphs 1-15, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a
     length of about 70 nucleotides.
17. The method of paragraph 16, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a sequence
     selected from Table 2 (SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 110).
18. The method of any of paragraphs 1-17, wherein the cleavable linker is a cleavable, non
     hybridizable linker.
19. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker is sensitive to an
     enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g., dithiothreitol),
     or any combination thereof.
20. The method of paragraph 18 or 19, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers are selected
     from the group consisting of hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers, phosphate-based
     cleavable linkers, acid cleavable linkers, ester-based cleavable linkers, peptide-based cleavable
     linkers, photocleavable linkers, and any combinations thereof.
                                                    79

    WO 2014/200767                                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
21.  The method of any of paragraphs 18-20, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker
     comprises a disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a
     nitrobenzyl group, a nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo
     hydroxyquinoline group, a hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any
     combinations thereof.
22. The method of any of paragraphs 18-21, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker
     comprises a photocleavable linker.
23. The method of paragraph 22, wherein the photocleavable linker is selected from the group
     consisting of molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures
     of the molecules (i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
                                                                              4        V
          each    ~
          wherein oftebakdt   ~       ~   nec  ,~       oeuerpeet               oncigo             opingpitta
                            ~
                   connects,~~     ~~
                          oridrclt4h    ~     ~ dieclagtbnigmlcl                  rteidniiainncetd
                                                                            80.
w4 hei      eho ofheabla dots ineei           eahoee              procesents alconkectr coup hemcln point ha
                                                                  80

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
25. The method of any of paragraphs 22-24, wherein the releasing of the identification nucleotide
     sequences from the bound target probes comprises exposing the bound target probes to
     ultraviolet light.
26. The method of any of paragraphs 1-25, wherein the sample comprises less than 500 cells.
27. The method of any of paragraphs 1-26, wherein the sample is a single-cell sample.
28. The method of any of paragraphs 1-27, wherein the sample comprises cells isolated from a fine
     needle aspirate.
29. The method of any of paragraphs 1-28, further comprising, prior to the contacting, separating
     target cells from interfering cells in the sample.
30. The method of paragraph 29, wherein the separating comprises labeling the interfering cells or
     target cells with magnetic particles and separating them from the sample by magnetic
     separation.
31.  The method of paragraph 30, wherein the magnetic separation is performed in a microfluidic
     device.
32. The method of any of paragraphs 29-31, wherein the target cells comprise rare cells.
33. The method of paragraph 32, wherein the rare cells are selected from the group consisting of
     circulating tumor cells, fetal cells, stem cells, immune cells, clonal cells, and any combination
     thereof
34. The method of any of paragraphs 29-33, wherein the target cells comprise tumor cells from a
     liquid biopsy (e.g., peritoneal, pleural, cerebrospinal fluid, and/or blood), a mucosal swap, a
     skin biopsy, a stool sample, or any combinations thereof
35. The method of any of paragraphs 1-34, wherein the target molecules comprise proteins,
     peptides, metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells,
     and any combinations thereof
36. The method of any of paragraphs 1-35, further comprising permeabilizing the target cells in the
     sample.
37. The method of any of paragraphs 1-36, wherein the composition further comprises a plurality of
     control probes, wherein each control probe in the plurality comprises:
            i.   a control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the
                 sample;
           ii.   an identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and
          iii.   a cleavable linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification
                 control sequence.
38. The method of paragraph 37, wherein the control-binding molecule binds to a control protein.
                                                      81

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
39. The method of paragraph 38, wherein the control protein is selected from the group consisting
     of housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding proteins,
     and any combinations thereof
40. The method of any of paragraphs 1-39, further comprising thresholding the signals.
41.  The method of paragraph 40, wherein the signals are thresholded on the basis of nonspecific
     binding.
42. The method of paragraph 41, wherein the threshold is greater than that of the signals from the
     non-specific binding.
43. The method of any of paragraphs 40-42, wherein the threshold is determined by using standard
     deviation and measurement error from at least one control protein.
44. The method of any of paragraphs 1-43, further comprising quantifying the signals by
     normalizing the signals associated with the target probes by the signals associated with the
     control probes.
45. The method of any of paragraphs 1-44, further comprising extracting a nucleic acid molecule
     from the same sample for nucleic acid analysis.
46. The method of paragraph 45, further comprising subjecting the nucleic acid molecule to a
     nucleic acid analysis.
47. The method of paragraph 46, wherein the nucleic acid analysis comprises sequencing,
     quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed PCR, DNA sequencing, RNA
     sequencing, de novo sequencing, next-generation sequencing such as massively parallel
     signature sequencing (MPSS), polony sequencing, pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa)
     sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, ion semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing,
     Heliscope single molecule sequencing, single molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing, nanopore
     DNA sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, sequencing with mass spectrometry,
     microfluidic Sanger sequencing, microscopy-based sequencing techniques, RNA polymerase
     (RNAP) sequencing, or any combinations thereof.
48. The method of any of paragraphs 45-47, wherein the target molecules to be detected in the
     sample comprise proteins, thereby detecting proteins and nucleic acid molecules from the same
     sample.
49. A kit for multiplexed detection of a plurality of different target molecules from a sample
     comprising:
            a. a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises:
                     i. a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a distinct target molecule
                        in the sample;
                                                   82

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
                      ii. an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding
                          molecule; and
                     iii. a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker between the target-binding molecule and
                          the identification nucleotide sequence;
             b. a plurality of reporter probes, wherein each reporter probe comprises:
                       i. a first target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a first portion of
                          the identification nucleotide sequence; and
                      ii. a detectable label that identifies the reporter probe.
50. The kit of paragraph 49, further comprising a plurality of capture probes, wherein each capture
     probe comprises (i) a second target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a second
     portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) an affinity tag.
51.  The kit of paragraph 49 or 50, wherein the detectable label of the reporter probes comprises one
     or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe.
52. The kit of paragraph 51, wherein the unique signal is an optical signal.
53.  The kit of paragraph 52, wherein the optical signal comprises a sequence of light-emitting
     signals.
54. The kit of any of paragraphs 51-53, wherein the one or more labeling molecules are selected
     from the group consisting of a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a
     chemiluminescent moiety, and any combinations thereof
55. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-54, wherein the target-binding molecule comprises proteins,
     peptides, metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells,
     and any combination thereof
56. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-55, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker is sensitive
     to an enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g.,
     dithiothreitol), or any combination thereof.
57. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-56, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers are selected
     from the group consisting of hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers, phosphate-based
     cleavable linkers, acid cleavable linkers, ester-based cleavable linkers, peptide-based cleavable
     linkers, photocleavable linkers, and any combinations thereof.
58. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-57, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
     disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a nitrobenzyl group, a
     nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo hydroxyquinoline group, a
     hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any combinations thereof
59. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-58, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
     photocleavable linker.
                                                       83

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
60. The kit of paragraph 59, wherein the photocleavable linker is selected from the group consisting
     of molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures of the
     molecules (i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
                                NN
                                    ANN
wherein each of the black dots in each molecule represents a connecting or coupling point that
connects, directly or indirectly, to the target-binding molecule or the indentification nucleotide
sequence.
61.  The kit of paragraph 59, wherein the photocleavable linker comprises the molecule (xiv).
62. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-61, further comprising a plurality of control probes, wherein
     each control probe in the plurality comprises:
         i. a control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the sample;
        ii. an identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and
       iii. a cleavable linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification control
            sequence.
63. The kit of paragraph 62, wherein the control-binding molecule binds to a control protein.
                                                   84

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
64. The kit of paragraph 63, wherein the control protein is selected from the group consisting of
      housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding proteins,
      and any combinations thereof
65. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-64, further comprising a reagent selected from the group
      consisting of a hybridization reagent, a purification reagent, an immobilization reagent, an
      imaging agent, a cell permeabilization agent, a blocking agent, a cleaving agent for the
      cleavable linker, and any combinations thereof
66. The kit of any of paragraphs 49-65, further comprising a device, wherein the device comprises a
      surface for immobilization of the capture probes upon coupling to the identification nucleotide
      sequences.
Some selected definitions
     [00310]     It should be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular
methodology, protocols, and reagents, etc., described herein and as such may vary. The terminology
used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to limit
the scope of the present invention, which is defined solely by the claims.
     [00311]     As used herein and in the claims, the singular forms include the plural reference and
vice versa unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The term "or" is inclusive unless modified,
for example, by "either." Other than in the operating examples, or where otherwise indicated, all
numbers expressing quantities of ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be understood
as modified in all instances by the term "about." The term "about" with respect to numerical values
means within 5%.
     [00312]     As used herein, the term "comprising" or "comprise(s)" is used in reference to
compositions, methods, and respective component(s) thereof, that are essential to the invention, yet
open to the inclusion of unspecified elements, whether essential or not.
     [00313]     As used herein, the term "consisting essentially of' or "consist(s) essentially of'
refers to those elements required for a given embodiment. The term permits the presence of
additional elements that do not materially affect the basic and novel or functional characteristic(s) of
that embodiment of the invention.
     [00314]     As used herein, the term "consisting of' or "consist(s) of' refers to compositions,
methods, and respective components thereof as described herein, which are exclusive of any element
not recited in that description of the embodiment.
     [00315]     The term "multiplexed detection" refers to detection of a plurality of target
molecules from a single sample in a single assay. In some embodiments, multiplexed detection
refers to simultaneous measurements of at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 10, at least
                                                     85

    WO 2014/200767                                                                     PCT/US2014/040731
20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at
least 150, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, at least 350, at least 400, at least 450, at least 500 or
more different target molecules from a single sample.
     [00316]     As used herein, the term "fixed cell or tissue sample" refers to a sample obtained
from a cell or tissue which has been previously fixed in a cell- or tissue-fixing solution and
optionally afterwards embedded in a solid substrate. Various cell- or tissue-fixing solutions are
known in the art, including, but not limited to aldehydes (e.g., but not limited to formaldehyde,
formalin), alcohols (e.g., but not limited to, ethanol, methanol, and/or acetone), oxidizing agents
(e.g., but not limited to, osmium tetroxide, potassium dichromate, chromic acid, and/or potassium
permanganate), picrates, mercurial (e.g., but not limited to, B-5 and/or Zenker's fixative), Hepes
glutamic acid buffer-mediated Organic solvent Protection Effect (HOPE) fixative. In some
embodiments, a fixed cell or tissue sample also encompasses a frozen cell or tissue sample.
     [00317]     As used herein, the term "alien or foreign DNA barcode" refers to a DNA sequence
used as a barcode or tag for identification of a target molecule in a sample of an organism, wherein
the DNA sequence is an alien or foreign sequence relative to the genomes of the organism from
which the sample is derived or obtained. As used herein, the term "alien or foreign" refers to a
nucleotide sequence that shows no or little homology against an organism (from which a sample is
derived or obtained) and/or other major organisms, e.g., in the NCBI Reference Sequence (RefSeq)
database. In some embodiments, a nucleotide sequence is alien or foreign when it shares a homology
(sequence identity) with that of the organism by no more than 50% or less, including, e.g., no more
than 40%, no more than 30%, no more than 20%, no more than 10% or less. In some embodiments,
the identification nucleotide sequences described herein are alien or foreign DNA barcodes.
     [00318]     The term "antibody" as used herein refers to a full length antibody or
immunoglobulin, IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD or IgE molecules, or a protein portion thereof that comprises
only a portion of an intact antibody, generally including an antigen binding site of the intact antibody
and thus retaining the ability to bind a target, such as an epitope or antigen. Examples of portions of
antibodies or epitope-binding proteins encompassed by the present definition include: (i) the Fab
fragment, having VL, CL, VH and CHI domains; (ii) the Fab' fragment, which is a Fab fragment
having one or more cysteine residues at the C-terminus of the CHI domain; (iii) the Fd fragment
having VH and CHI domains; (iv) the Fd' fragment having VH and CHI domains and one or more
cysteine residues at the C terminus of the CHI domain; (v) the Fv fragment having the VL and VH
domains of a single arm of an antibody; (vi) the dAb fragment (Ward et al., 341 Nature 544 (1989))
which consists of a VH domain or a VL domain that binds antigen; (vii) isolated CDR regions or
isolated CDR regions presented in a functional framework; (viii) F(ab')2 fragments which are
bivalent fragments including two Fab' fragments linked by a disulphide bridge at the hinge region;
                                                        86

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
(ix) single chain antibody molecules (e.g., single chain Fv; scFv) (Bird et al., 242 Science 423
(1988); and Huston et al., 85 PNAS 5879 (1988)); (x) "diabodies" with two antigen binding sites,
comprising a heavy chain variable domain (VH) connected to a light chain variable domain (VL) in
the same polypeptide chain (see, e.g., EP 404,097; WO 93/11161; Hollinger et al., 90 PNAS 6444
(1993)); (xi) "linear antibodies" comprising a pair of tandem Fd segments (VH-CH1-VH-CH1)
which, together with complementary light chain polypeptides, form a pair of antigen binding regions
(Zapata et al., 8 Protein Eng. 1057 (1995); and U.S. Patent No. 5,641,870).
     [00319]     "Antibodies" include antigen-binding portions of antibodies such as epitope- or
antigen-binding peptides, paratopes, functional CDRs; recombinant antibodies; chimeric antibodies;
tribodies; midibodies; or antigen-binding derivatives, analogs, variants, portions, or fragments
thereof.
     [00320]     The term "aptamer" refers to a nucleic acid molecule that is capable of binding to a
target molecule, such as a polypeptide. For example, an aptamer of the invention can specifically
bind to a target molecule, or to a molecule in a signaling pathway that modulates the expression
and/or activity of a target molecule. The generation and therapeutic use of aptamers are well
established in the art. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,475,096.
     [00321]     All patents and other publications identified are expressly incorporated herein by
reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the methodologies described in
such publications that might be used in connection with the present invention. These publications are
provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing in this
regard should be construed as an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such
disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason. All statements as to the date or
representation as to the contents of these documents is based on the information available to the
applicants and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of
these documents.
     [00322]     Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as those commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention pertains. Although any known methods, devices, and materials may be used in the practice
or testing of the invention, the methods, devices, and materials in this regard are described herein.
                                               EXAMPLES
    Example 1. Optimizationfor methods for multiplex detection of target moleculesfrom a sample
     [00323]     Evaluation of different cleavable linkers: In various embodiments described herein,
target-binding molecules can be conjugated to identification nucleotide sequences via any cleavable
linker(s) known in the art. In this Example, three alternative methods of conjugating target molecules
                                                     87

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
(e.g., antibodies) to identification nucleotide sequences (e.g., DNA) via a cleavable linker were
evaluated using exemplary procedures detailed below.
     [00324]     In the first method, target-binding molecules (e.g., antibodies) were modified with
(E)-Cyclooct-4-enyl 2,5-dioxopyrro-lidin-1-yl carbonate (trans-cyclooctene N-hydroxy-succinimidyl
ester; TCO-NHS) and synthesized as previously reported in Ref. 26. If present, sodium azide was
removed using a 2 ml Zeba desalting column (7 K MWCO). The reaction was performed using 1000
molar equivalents of TCO-NHS in PBS containing 10% (v/v) DMF and 10 mM sodium bicarbonate
for 4 h at RT. At the same time, a photocleavable Tz-NHS was reacted with an amine group on the 5'
end of the 70mer DNA strand (15 molar excess) for 4 h at RT. After the reactions concluded, the
target-binding molecule-TCO (e.g., Ab-TCO) conjugate was purified using a Zeba column (7000
MWCO), and the DNA-Tz conjugate was purified using a 3 K MWCO Amicon filter followed by
three washes with PBS. Next, the target-binding molecule-TCO (e.g., Ab-TCO) and Tz-DNA were
combined via click chemistry (26) for two hours at RT. The final target probe (e.g., antibody-DNA
conjugate) was purified by size separation using Amicon 100 K MWCO filters followed by washes
with PBS.
     [00325]     In the second method, the photocleavable bifunctional linker (Fig. 2) reacted (10
molar excess) with the amine group on the 5' end of the 70mer single-stranded DNA (IDT) for 4 h at
RT. Three hours after the DNA reaction began, the target-binding molecules (e.g., antibody) was
reacted with 2-iminothiolane (Traut's reagent, 10 molar excess, Thermo Scientific) to convert amine
groups to sulfydryl (-SH) groups in PBS with 2 mM EDTA for 1 h at RT. When the reactions
concluded, the thiolated target-binding molecules (e.g., antibody) was separated from excess Traut's
Reagent using a Zeba desalting column (7000 MWCO) that had been equilibrated with PBS
containing 2 mM EDTA. The excess photocleavable (PC) bifunctional linker was purified from the
DNA with a 3 K MWCO Amcion filter. Then the target-binding molecule-SH (e.g., antibody-SH)
and the DNA-PC-linker (~15 molar excess) were reacted overnight at 4'C. The final target probe
(e.g., antibody-DNA conjugate) was purified by size separation using Amicon 100 K MWCO filters
followed by washes with PBS.
     [00326]     In the third method, an amine to sulfhydryl linker, sulfosuccinimidyl 6-[3'(2
pyridyldithio)-propionamido] hexanoate (sulfo-LC-SPDP, Thermo Scientific), was reacted with a
target-binding molecule (e.g., antibody) in PBS-EDTA at 50 molar excess and aged for 1 h at RT. At
the end of the reaction, excess sulfo-LC-SPDP was removed using a Zeba desalting column (7000
MWCO). The thiolyated DNA was reduced with DTT and purified via a NAP-5 column, as
previously described in the DNA-antibody conjugation in the "Exemplary materials and methods"
section below. Once excess sulfo-LC-SPDP was purified using a Zeba column, the target-binding
molecule (e.g., antibody) was reacted with the reduced thiolyated DNA (~15 molar excess)
                                                     88

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
overnight at 4'C. The final target probe (e.g., antibody-DNA conjugate) was purified by size
separation using Amicon 100 K MWCO filters followed by washes with PBS.
     [00327]     The three UV-cleavable target-binding molecule-DNA (e.g., Ab-DNA) linker
methods were compared by first labeling A431 cells with EGFR and EPCAM DNA conjugates and
then determining which method resulted in the highest signal to noise ratio (SNR), e.g., via
Nanostring. The conjugation of target molecules (e.g., antibodies) with the bifunctional
photocleavable linker described in Fig. 2A gave the highest SNR. This target probe (e.g., antibody
conjugate) was then compared to the target probe (e.g., antibody-DNA conjugate containing the
DTT cleavable disulfide bond. SKOV3 cells (5x 105 cells) were labeled with Herceptin-DNA
conjugates (1 pg). After 30 minutes the cells were spun down at 400 x g for 3 minutes, and the
excess Herceptin was removed with two SB+ washes. The Herceptin-DNA conjugate with the
disulfide linker was then cleaved by adding DTT (50 mM) for 15 minutes at 370 C. At the same
time, the Herceptin-DNA conjugate with the photocleavable linker was exposed to UV light
(wavelength) for 15 minutes. After the 15-minute cleavage step, the cells were spun down at 400 x g
for 5 minutes, and the supernatant was removed. The DNA in the supernatant was measured using
the single-stranded Qubit assay to determine the amount of DNA cleaved from the antibody. The
UV photocleavable linker had 2.4-fold more DNA than the disulfide linker.
     [00328]     Optimization of lysis conditions: Four different lysis conditions were evaluated to
determine which was the most efficient (Fig. 3): (A) Proteinase K with buffer PKD (Qiagen) and
UV; (B) Proteinase K with buffer ATL (Qiagen) and UV; (C) ATL buffer with UV; and (D) UV.
Based on the tested methods, method (B) showed a 20% increase in signal over methods (A) and
(C).
 Example 2. Development and validation of methods for multiplex detection of target moleculesfrom
                                                 a sample
     [00329]     In this Example, an antibody barcoding with photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform
was designed to perform multiplexed protein measurements and system-wide profiling on small
amounts of clinical sample material (e.g., ~100 cells). The method was designed to preserve genetic
material and to enable specific isolation of rare single cells. This approach interrogates single cells
by tagging antibodies of interest with short (~70-mer) DNA "barcodes"-with each antibody having a
unique sequence- using a stable photocleavable linker. Photocleavable linkers known in the art (e.g.,
Ref. 9) can be used herein. After antibody binding to the cells, the photocleavable linker releases the
unique DNA barcode, which can then be detected by various means. In some embodiments, different
DNA barcodes can be identified based on size using gel electrophoresis. However, this method had
limited multiplexing (8 to 12 markers) and was only semiquantitative (9). Other quantitative
                                                     89

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
methods, such as sequencing and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), are reliable and
can be used to detect the released DNA barcodes, but may introduce bias during amplification steps,
require prolonged processing time, or are not cost-effective. Multiplexed qPCR only measures a
maximum of five markers at a time. Thus, a fluorescence hybridization technology, which have
been traditionally used for multiplexed quantitation (16,384 barcodes) of femtomolar amounts of
DNA and RNA (10, 11), was selected to detect the released DNA barcodes. While the fluorescence
hybridization technology has been used to quantify DNA and RNA, it had not been previously
extended to measure proteins within cells or clinical samples. This Example and subsequent
Examples show application and validation of the ABCD platform in cell lines and human clinical
specimens, as well as evaluating drug treatment response and inter- and intrapatient heterogeneity in
lung cancer.
     [00330]     Cells were first harvested from fine-needle aspirates (FNAs) from a given patient
(Fig. 1A). To better isolate cancer cells from their heterogeneous cellular milieu, aspirates were
labeled with antibodies directed against established markers (for example, CD45 to deplete tumor
infiltrating leukocytes from the sample). The antibody was tagged with magnetic nanoparticles and
passed through a microfluidic device containing a self-assembled magnetic layer to deplete tagged
cells [12]. The purified cancer cell population was retrieved from the device and stained with a
mixture comprising a plurality of one or more embodiments of target probes as described herein. In
this Example, the purified cancer cell population were stained with a mixture of target probes each
containing an antibody and a unique barcode attached via a photocleavable linker (referred to as
"antibody conjugate" or "antibody-DNA conjugate" herein) (Fig. 1B and Fig. 2). Example
antibodies for use in the antibody conjugates are listed in Table 1 below. In this Example, more than
90 antibodies in the cocktail were chosen and used to demonstrate that bulk labeling yielded similar
results to single antibody labeling. The 90 antibody-DNA conjugates were specially designed to tag
an alien DNA sequence that would not cross-react with the human genome. Target markers were
selected to cover hallmark pathways in cancer (e.g., apoptosis, epigenetic, and DNA damage),
cancer diagnostic markers known in the art, e.g., those commonly used in the clinic, and
housekeeping and control proteins. Before labeling, antibody-DNA conjugates were isolated via
immunoglobulin G (IgG)-specific pull-down and pooled together into a cocktail. After cell
blocking, permeabilization and labeling, and washing, the DNA was released from the cells of
interest with both proteolytic cleavage and photocleavage to increase yield and, by extension,
sensitivity (Fig. 1C).
                                  Table 1: List of example antibodies.
Antibody                                               Species         Catalog         Vendor
GAPDH (14C10)                                           Rabbit         2118BF        Cell Signaling
                                                    90

   WO 2014/200767                                          PCT/US2014/040731
P-Tubulin (9F3)                              Rabbit 2128BF      Cell Signaling
Ku80 (C48E7)                                 Rabbit 218OBF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Chk2 (Thr68) (C13C1)                 Rabbit 2197BF      Cell Signaling
S6 ribosomal protein (54D2)                  Mouse  2317BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Chkl (Ser345) (133D3)                Rabbit 2348BF      Cell Signaling
VE-cadherin (D87F2)                          Rabbit 2500BF      Cell Signaling
p53 (7F5)                                    Rabbit 2527BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-53BP1 (Ser1778)                      Rabbit 2675BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-(Ser/Thr) ATM/ATR Substrate          Rabbit 2851BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-4E-BP1 (Thr37/46) (236B4)            Rabbit 2855BF      Cell Signaling
Bim (C34C5)                                  Rabbit 2933BF      Cell Signaling
Cyclin D3 (DCS22                             Mouse  2936BF      Cell Signaling
Cyclin DI (92G2)                             Rabbit 2978BF      Cell Signaling
mTOR (7C 10)                                 Rabbit 2983BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-cyclin D1 (Thr286) (D29B3)           Rabbit 3300BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-histone H3 (SerlO) (D2C8)            Rabbit 3377BF      Cell Signaling
ALK (D5F3)                                   Rabbit 3633BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-EGF Receptor (Tyr1068) (D7A5)        Rabbit 3777BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Akt (Ser473) (D9E)                   Rabbit 4060BF      Cell Signaling
CDCP1 Antibody                               Rabbit 4115BF      Cell Signaling
CyclinEl (HE12)                              Mouse  4129BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-cyclin El (Thr62)                    Rabbit 4136BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-p44/42 MAPK (Erkl/2)                 Rabbit 4370BF      Cell Signaling
(Thr202/Tyr2O4) (D13.14.4E)
Keratin 7 (D1E4)                             Rabbit 4465BF      Cell Signaling
Histone H3 (D1H2)                            Rabbit 4499BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-p38 MAPK (Thr1 80/Tyr1 82) (D3F9)    Rabbit 4511BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-SEK1/MKK4 (Ser257) (C36C11)          Rabbit 4514BF      Cell Signaling
Pan-keratin (CI1                             Mouse  4545BF      Cell Signaling
Keratin 8/18 (C51)                           Mouse  4546BF      Cell Signaling
Keratin 18 (DC10)                            Mouse  4548BF      Cell Signaling
Akt (pan) (C67E7)                            Rabbit 4691BF      Cell Signaling
p44/42 MAPK (Erkl/2) (137F5                  Rabbit 4695BF      Cell Signaling
COX IV (3E11                                 Rabbit 4850BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-S6 ribosomal protein (Ser235/236)    Rabbit 4858BF      Cell Signaling
53BP1                                        Rabbit 4937BF      Cell Signaling
P-Actin (13E5)                               Rabbit 4970BF      Cell Signaling
Akt2 (L79B2)                                 Mouse  5239BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-mTOR (Ser2448) (D9C2)                Rabbit 5536BF      Cell Signaling
Cleaved PARP (Asp214) (D64E10)               Rabbit 5625BF      Cell Signaling
Vimentin (D21H3)                             Rabbit 5741BF      Cell Signaling
                                          91

   WO 2014/200767                                      PCT/US2014/040731
Cleaved caspase-9 (Asp330) (D2D4)        Rabbit 7237BF      Cell Signaling
Met (D1C2)                               Rabbit 8198BF      Cell Signaling
FGF receptor 4 (D3B12)                   Rabbit 8562BF      Cell Signaling
Axl (C89E7)                              Rabbit 8661BF      Cell Signaling
p38 MAPK (D13E1)                         Rabbit 8690BF      Cell Signaling
BRCA1 (D54A8)                            Rabbit 9025BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Stat3 (Tyr705) (D3A7)            Rabbit 9145BF      Cell Signaling
Cleaved caspase-7 (Asp198)               Rabbit 9491BF      Cell Signaling
Cleaved caspase-8 (Asp391) (18C8)        Rabbit 9496BF      Cell Signaling
Cleaved caspase-9 (Asp315)               Rabbit 9505BF      Cell Signaling
PARP (46D 11)                            Rabbit 9532BF      Cell Signaling
4E-BP1 (53H 11)                          Rabbit 9644BF      Cell Signaling
Cleaved caspase-3 (Asp175)               Rabbit 9661BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-histone H2A.X (Ser139) (20E3)    Rabbit 9718BF      Cell Signaling
FGF receptor 1 (D8E4)                    Rabbit 9740BF      Cell Signaling
Caspase-8 (1C12)                         Mouse  9746BF      Cell Signaling
Caspase-9                                Rabbit 9502 BF     Cell Signaling
Phospho-P-Catenin (Ser675) (D2F1)        Rabbit 4176BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-GSK-3p (Ser9) (D85E12)           Rabbit 5558BF      Cell Signaling
Dimethyl-Histone H3 (Lys9) (D85B4)       Rabbit 4658BF      Cell Signaling
Dimethyl-Histone H3 (Lys4) (C64G9)       Rabbit 9725BF      Cell Signaling
Dimethyl-Histone H3 (Lys36) (C75H12)     Rabbit 2901BF      Cell Signaling
Dimethyl-Histone H3 (Lys27)              Rabbit 9755BF      Cell Signaling
Dimethyl-Histone H3 (Lys79)              Rabbit 9757BF      Cell Signaling
Acetyl-histone H3 (Lys9) (C5B 11)        Rabbit 9649BF      Cell Signaling
Acetyl-histone H3 (Lys14)                Rabbit 4318BF      Cell Signaling
Acetyl-histone H3 (Lys27)                Rabbit 4353BF      Cell Signaling
Acetyl-histone H3 (Lys56)                Rabbit 4243BF      Cell Signaling
Acetyl-histone H3 (Lys 18)               Rabbit 9675BF      Cell Signaling
LC3A (D50G8)                             Rabbit 4599BF      Cell Signaling
LC3B (D11)                               Rabbit 3868BF      Cell Signaling
p21wafl/cip1                             Rabbit 2947BF      Cell Signaling
Beclin-1 (D40C5)                         Rabbit 3495BF      Cell Signaling
P-Catenin (6B3)                          Rabbit 9582BF      Cell Signaling
Slug (C19G7)                             Rabbit 9585BF      Cell Signaling
Snail (C15D3)                            Rabbit 3897BF      Cell Signaling
TCF8/ZEB1 (D80D3)                        Rabbit 3396BF      Cell Signaling
c-Myc (D84C12)                           Rabbit 5605BF      Cell Signaling
Met (D1C2)                               Rabbit 8198BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Src family (Tyr416)              Rabbit 6943BF      Cell Signaling
Phospho-Jak2 (Tyr1O07)                   Rabbit 4406BF      Cell Signaling
                                      92

   WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
Phospho-Jak3 (Tyr980/981)                             Rabbit         5031BF       Cell Signaling
Phospho-PLC71 (Tyr783)                                Rabbit         2821BF       Cell Signaling
Bcl-2 (D55G8)                                         Rabbit         4223BF       Cell Signaling
Bcl-xL (54H6) rabbit mAb #2764                        Rabbit         2764BF       Cell Signaling
Control mouse IgG1                                   Mouse           400102         Biolegend
Control mouse IgG2a                                  Mouse           400202         Biolegend
Control mouse IgG2b                                  Mouse           401202         Biolegend
Control rabbit                                        Rabbit          550875      BD Bioscience
Control rat IgG2b                                      Rat            553986      BD Bioscience
Her2                                              Human/Mouse       Herceptin       Genentech
EGFR                                              Human/Mouse       Cetuximab     Bristol-Meyers
EpCAM                                                Mouse          MAB9601            R&D
MUC1                                                 Mouse         M01102909        Fitzgerald
MUC16                                                Mouse            ab1107          abeam
EpHA2                                                Mouse          MAB3035            R&D
FOLR1                                                Mouse          MAB5646            R&D
FSHR                                                 Mouse         GTX71451          Genetex
TSPAN8                                               Mouse          MAB4734            R&D
Claudin-3                                            Mouse          MAB4620            R&D
Transferin                                           Mouse          MAB2474            R&D
CD44s                                                Mouse           BBA1O             R&D
CD44                                                 Mouse            103002        Biolegend
E-Cadherin                                           Mouse            324102        Biolegend
CEA                                                                  10-C1OC        Fitzgerald
B7-H3                                                               MAB 1027           R&D
EMMPRIN                                              Mouse          MAB972             R&D
CD45                                                 Mouse            304002        Biolegend
                                                                                    Santa Cruz
Calretinin                                           Mouse          sc-135853     bitcnlg
                                                                                  biotechnology
Ki67                                                 Mouse            556003      BD Bioscience
Control mouse IgG                                    Mouse           5414BF       Cell Signaling
Control rabbit IgG                                    Rabbit         3900BF       Cell Signaling
    [00331]      The antibody-DNA conjugates were first evaluated in MDA-MB-231 (human breast
cancer) cells. Cells were blocked to prevent nonspecific DNA or antibody labeling and then
"stained" with the pooled cocktail following techniques akin to standard flow cytometry staining
known in the art. Next, DNA was released with a light pulse, hybridized to fluorescent barcodes,
and imaged on a cartridge via a charge-coupled imaging device (CCD) (NanoString Technologies).
    [00332]      Several DNA conjugation using various cleavable linkers and corresponding release
methods were evaluated and optimized (Figs. 2 and 3) Among the tested cleavable linkers, the
                                                  93

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
photo-cleavable linker was selected for its superior performance (Fig. 2). Probe quantification
translated into proteomic sample profiling (Fig. IC) by normalizing according to DNA per antibody
and housekeeping proteins (Fig. 4). On average, there were about three to five DNA fragments per
antibody; markers were thresholded on the basis of nonspecific binding of IgG controls.
     [00333]     Repeated analyses showed consistent results across different batches of cells
analyzed on different days and over time (Fig. 5). In subsequent studies, antibodies that did not fall
above 1.2-fold control IgG threshold were not included [for example, dimethyl-histone H3 (Lys 4 )].
Excluding these outliers, the median SE across all antibodies was 6%. A profile of the human
MDA-MB-231 line was derived from about 50 cells and showed, for example, high expression of
keratin 7 and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), two diagnostic markers commonly used in
pathology laboratories to identify cancer subtypes. Epigenetic and phosphoproteomic markers have
lower expression because these naturally occur at lower abundance in cells relative to extracellular
markers. Intracellular markers such as phospho-Src (pSrc) and phospho-glycogen synthase kinase
33 (pGSK3 ) could also be detected, e.g., using the optimized permeabilization method (Figs. 6A
6B).
     [00334]     Additional benchmarking experiments were performed to demonstrate assay
consistency and reproducibility. Conjugated antibodies behaved similarly to native, unmodified
antibodies as evidenced by head-to-head comparison on flow cytometry (Fig. 7A). Similar results
were found when testing intracellular antibodies such as p53 and phospho-S6 ribosomal protein
(pS6RP) with dot blots and immunoblotting (Fig. 7B). Antibody-DNA conjugates generated equal
or stronger signals compared to native antibodies on dot blots. Furthermore, the DNA-modified
antibodies showed similar expression patterns across cell lysates when compared to native antibody.
To assess reproducibility, two DNA-modified antibody clones specific to the same target [e.g.,
epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM)] were shown to give nearly identical expression levels
(R 2 = 0.99) across multiple cell lines and clinical samples (Fig. 8A). Antibody staining was
evaluated using both a cocktail of 60+ antibodies and as single agents; expression levels from both
methods, as measured by an antibody barcoding with photocleavable DNA (ABCD) platform as
described herein, showed high, linear correlation (R2 = 0.93; Fig. 8B). Protein marker changes
measured with the ABCD platform linearly correlated to expression changes measured by
independent immunofluorescence studies in taxol-treated HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells (Fig. 8C).
Flow cytometry measurements across eight cell lines and six different markers showed linear
correlations (R2  = 0.92 to 0.99) (Fig. 9).
Example 3. Single-cell sensitivity of one embodiment of the methods for multiplex detection of target
      moleculesfrom a sample (antibody barcodingwith photocleavableDNA (ABCD) platform)
                                                     94

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00335]    The sensitivity of the ABCD platform was assessed by detecting across varying cell
numbers (50, 15, 10 or 5 cells) from a bulk sample of 500,000 cells, in multiple repeats, by serial
dilution (Fig. 10A). The correlations between bulk and diluted DNA counts were linear, with
correlation coefficients >0.9 (Fig. 10B). Additional experiments were performed to validate the
ABCD platform in single human A431 cells. Figure 1OC displays the expression levels of 90
analyzed proteins for four randomly chosen single cells and in bulk samples. Consistent with
previous reports (13), there were some intercellular heterogeneity, but generally, single-cell profiles
matched their respective bulk profiles with correlations as high as 0.96 and as low as 0.63.
Multinucleated cells were excluded; cells were otherwise selected at random.
     [00336]    To demonstrate biological variation at the single-cell level, untreated single human
A431 cells were compared to cells treated with gefitinib- a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the
EGFR. Unsupervised clustering of single cells showed unique patterns for treated and untreated
groups (Fig. 11A). A431 cell lines overexpress EGFR and are highly sensitive to gefitinib [median
inhibitory concentration (IC 50 ) = 100 nM], as shown by widespread pathway inhibition in gefitinib
treated A431 cells. A threshold was applied at the single-cell level to ensure that marker expression
levels were detectable above all six IgG controls for all cell lines. The majority of the panel was still
detectable, although some markers such as phospho-EGFR fell below threshold levels in some cells,
and thus were not included for hierarchical clustering. Nevertheless, pairwise comparisons between
the two cohorts showed significant changes in key markers (Fig. 11B) such as pS6RP, Ku8O, and
phospho-histone H3 (pH3). These changes in the markers were also consistent with previous reports
(14, 15). Unlike most signaling inhibition studies, the untreated cell line was not prestimulated with
EGF before treatment. Hence, the assay conditions mimicked natural signaling variability to better
approximate patient samples.
  Example 4. Measuringinter- and intratumoralheterogeneity in clinical samples using the ABCD
                                                platform
     [00337]    To demonstrate the clinical capabilities of ABCD and explore single-cell
heterogeneity, FNAs were obtained from patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Single-pass FNA
samples were initially processed using antibody-mediated magnetic selection to isolate EpCAM
positive cells. Single cells for subsequent analyses were harvested via micromanipulation, whereas
other sample debris was removed. In one representative patient, protein marker expression in 11
single cells (EpCAM+/DAPI+/CD45-) correlated with bulk measurement (about 100 remaining cells
from FNAs) (Fig. 12A). Yet overall, correlation between patient cells and bulk FNAs was lower
and varied compared to single cells from cell lines and their respective bulk in Figs. 10A-10C. The
                                                   95

    WO 2014/200767                                                                   PCT/US2014/040731
highest correlation with the bulk measurement was 0.79 (cell culture showed R = 0.96), whereas the
lowest value was 0.43 (Fig. 12B).
     [00338]     Interpatient heterogeneity in bulk samples was next determined from six patients
with biopsy-proven lung adenocarcinoma (Fig. 13). Although these cancers harbored identical
histopathology, proteomic profiling revealed clear differences, even in this small cohort. Marker
panels were chosen to evaluate protein heterogeneity across a broad range of functional protein
networks (16) relevant for therapy assessment. Fig. 13 shows visual similarity among patients 1, 2,
and 5 (Spearman R 1 ,2 =  0.94, R 1 ,5 = 0.96, R 2 ,5 = 0.95). This partially concurred with genotyping
because both patients 1 and 2 had EGFR T790M mutations, whereas patient 5 had a KRAS mutation
(KRAS 35G>T). This indicates that different genotypes may still yield similar proteomic
phenotypes. Patients 3, 4, and 6 harbored distinct proteomic profiles and differing mutations (Fig.
13). Patient 3 had an exon 20 EGFR mutation, whereas patient 4 had an EGFR L858R mutation and
an additional BRAF mutation. Patient 6 was noted to have an EML4-ALK translocation.
     [00339]     Protein clustering also showed possible personalized targets (Fig. 13). For example,
patient 4 (EGFR/BRAF mutant) had high phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2
(pERK1/2) and pS6RP, as expected for a patient with an EGFR L588R mutation; however, this
patient also showed a high level of the DNA repair/damage markers poly(adenosine diphosphate
ribose) polymerase (PARP), Ku8O, and phospho-histone H2A.X (pH2A.X) expression, indicating
that PARP inhibitors or DNA-damaging agents (for example, cisplatin) could be effective for this
patient. Thus, such information determined by methods for detecting a plurality of target molecules
as described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can be used to complement pharmacogenomics.
    Example 5. In vitro discriminationofpathway analyses during treatment using ABCD platform
     [00340]     Having established feasibility of inter- and intrapatient analyses in clinical samples,
it was next sought to explore the feasibility of monitoring cancer treatment over time. To this end, it
was first sought to determine if known pathway responses to different drug treatments could be
discriminated. Fig. 14A shows the validation that triple-negative breast cancer cells (MDA-MB
436) treated with kinase inhibitors (gefitinib and PKI-587), antibody drugs (cetuximab), and DNA
damaging drugs (olaparib and cisplatin) showed profiles that clustered according to drug mechanism
of action. As a control study, cell lines treated with cetuximab resulted in expected drug inhibition
(Fig. 15B). Expected protein inhibition in drug-sensitive human cancer cell lines using optimized
drug doses and incubation times was demonstrated using the ABCD platform. Notable examples
include pS6RP for targeted treatments, and pH2A.X, pATM/ATR (phospho-ataxia telangiectasia
mutated/ATM- and Rad3-related) substrate, and cleaved PARP for DNA-damaging agents.
Unexpected results, such as epigenetic histone modifications after treatment with a
                                                          96

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (PI3Ki) was also found (Fig. 15E). For additional in vitro
validation of treatment, HT1080 fibrosarcoma cell lines were treated with four different doses of
taxol. Several panel markers displayed dose-response changes to taxol treatment, including pERK
and phospho-cyclin D.
     [00341]     Proteomic profiling of olaparib and cisplatin treatments was performed for four
human cancer cell lines, showing varying drug sensitivities as measured by viability assays (Figs.
14A-14B and Fig. 15A). The degree of change in protein profiles was quantified by calculating the
number of markers that were significantly different from the untreated condition using pairwise t test
[false discovery rate (FDR) = 0.1]. This profiling indicated that global pharmacodynamic changes
correlated with treatment sensitivity: As IC 50 values decreased, the number of protein markers with
significant changes increased (Fig. 14B). For resistant cell lines (for example, OVCA429), no
significant changes were detected. Expected changes in DNA damage and apoptosis markers, such
as degradation of Bim and up-regulation of pERK (Figs. 15C-15D) were also detected, indicating
previous studies of DNA damage response to cisplatin treatment (17).
     [00342]     To evaluate the assay's ability to measure even small marker changes, HT1080
human fibrosarcoma cells were treated with taxol at five different doses. Marker changes at high
doses were compared to marker changes quantified by an independent immunofluorescence screen
(Fig. 16A). Several protein markers showed dose-response curves, including CDCP1, phospho
cyclin D, cyclin El, fibroblast growth factor 4 (FGF4), BRCA2, and pERK1/2. These in vitro
studies established that the marker panel could indeed measure pathway changes in response to
varying drug mechanisms; furthermore, these changes could be detected in a sensitive, dose
dependent manner. Additionally, pairwise t tests between the dosed and untreated cells showed an
increase in significant marker changes at the highest dose (700 nM taxol) compared to the lower 70
nM dose (Figs. 16B and 16C).
                  Example 6. MonitoringPI3Ki treatment response in cancerpatients
     [00343]     In some embodiments, it is desirable to translate these pathway analyses to patient
samples, e.g., to analyze serial biopsies in early-phase clinical trials with the goal to better assess
drug efficacy and dosage. However, such invasive procedures can introduce risk of morbidity and
high costs. The ability to analyze small numbers of cells from alternative sources (for example,
FNAs) becomes paramount when responsive tumors shrink after treatment, making repeat biopsies
difficult. As proof of concept, scant cell analyses were performed in four patients before and after
PI3Ki treatment during phase 1 dose escalation trials (Fig. 17A). Pretreatment samples were
collected the day before the first drug dose; post treatment samples were collected at the end of the
second treatment cycle. Collection and processing occurred over the course of a year to correlate
                                                    97

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
profiles to patient response. All four patients had metastatic cancers of various subtypes and were
selected on the basis of genetic P13K mutations that could predispose their tumors to pathway
inhibition using PI3Ki treatment. In all, two patients responded and two progressed. Data analysis
was performed in a blinded manner. Unsupervised clustering separated out two groups of responders
versus non-responders (Fig. 17A). Among the two responders, one patient showed larger fold
changes across the marker panel. Subsequent unblinding revealed that this patient received a higher
dose of the drug during phase Idose escalation than did the other responding patient. Additional
patient samples can be used to measure ABCD platform's clinical impact during drug dosing
pathway studies.
     [00344]     In some embodiments, the screen performed by the ABCD platform could help
predict clinical outcome or identify promising markers of treatment response. To demonstrate this,
five drug-naYve patients, all with various P13K mutations, who eventually received small-molecule
PI3Ki treatment were profiled. Patients were categorized as nonresponders or responders (Fig. 17B)
and a marker-ranking algorithm was used to determine top differential markers. The top marker, di
methylation of histone H3 at Lys79 (H3K79me2), clustered with several markers: pS6RP (a known
downstream target of P13K and an emerging key biomarker of treatment response) (14), pH2A.X,
and PARP. According to canonical pathway signaling, selecting epigenetic or DNA damage
markers as readouts of P13K treatment response would not be an intuitive decision. DNA damage
and epigenetic marker changes were also identified by in vitro profiling of a PI3Ki (Figs. 15C-15E).
This cluster covered diverse proteins across various pathways: epigenetic changes, DNA damage,
and growth and survival pathways [P13K and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)], indicating
the potential value of system-wide profiling for developing better companion diagnostics during
treatment.
Discussion based on Examples 1-6
     [00345]     In some embodiments, presented herein is an amplification-free method capable of
sensing hundreds of proteins in human cells by using one or more embodiments of target probes
described herein (e.g., DNA-barcoded antibodies) coupled with highly sensitive optical readouts.
Cell labeling, washing, and analysis can be completed within hours, making same-day protein
analysis possible. The method measures more markers on limited material than
immunohistochemistry and preserves genetic material from samples, which is not possible with
traditional tools like multiplexed cytometry (18). The protein coverage and/or methods described
herein can be extended to include additional protein targets and/or other target molecules through
conjugation of target molecules to identification nucleotide sequences (e.g., antibody-DNA
conjugations), resulting in a scalable, multiplexed target molecule (e.g., protein) screening platform.
                                                   98

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
     [00346]     In general, the method can provide analyses of protein expression levels for both
single and bulk cell populations. The in vitro studies as shown in the Examples showed that single
cells from cell lines showed higher correlation to bulk measurements than those isolated from patient
tumors. In FNAs, the single cells also showed higher correlations with each other than with the bulk
population. This could be, for example, because an averaged bulk measurement is less likely to
correlate strongly with a single clonal phenotype.
     [00347]     The findings presented herein showed that the methods described herein can be used
to detect extracellular proteins (e.g., but not limited to, CD44, EGFR), intracellular/cytosolic
proteins (e.g., but not limited to, p-S6RP), and/or intracellular/nuclear proteins (e.g., 53BP1) in a
sample.
     [00348]     The findings presented herein also showed that current cell culture models are an
insufficient estimate of proteomic heterogeneity in clinical samples. The methods for detecting a
plurality of target molecules from a sample described herein (e.g., ABCD platform tool) are
therefore useful for its ability to study rare single cells in clinical samples, such as circulating tumor
cells, stem cells, and immune cell populations. As shown herein, even scarce proteins, such as
53BP1 and pH2A.X, could be detected at the single-cell level. Large-scale protein mapping of
isolated, rare cells and clonal populations could shed insight into cancer heterogeneity, drug
resistance, and the clinical utility of circulating tumor cells. Intratumoral heterogeneity may itself be
a biomarker of poor clinical outcome (19). Thus, the methods described herein (e.g., ABCD
platform) can be used to determine intratumoral heterogeneity, which can be used as a biomarker for
diagnosis and/or prognosis. Establishing causal and reactive correlations between diseases and
altered biomarkers could also radically improve physicians' abilities to diagnose and treat patients
(20, 21). In some embodiments, the methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can be used to
determine causal and reactive correlations between diseases and altered biomarkers in order to
improve physicians' abilities to diagnose and/or treat patients.
     [00349]     The inventors have demonstrated the ABCD method's ease of use, reproducibility,
compatibility with clinical applications, such as profiling of FNA cancer samples, and its
translational potential to monitor cancer treatment as demonstrated in four patients. The findings
showed that broader profiling can improve understanding about potentially useful companion
diagnostic biomarkers and help explore how drug dosing corresponds to cellular pharmacodynamics.
Smarter protein marker selection, as demonstrated by the ABCD platform, could markedly reduce
drug development costs, narrow patient cohorts, and improve clinical trial design.
     [00350]     The methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) could complement other art
recognized single-cell proteomic techniques, such as mass cytometry and fluorophore-inactivated
multiplexed immunofluorescence (8, 22). One of the advantages of the methods described herein
                                                      99

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
(e.g., ABCD platform) is that both genetic material and protein barcodes can be concurrently
extracted from a single sample, thus paving the way for more biologically relevant analyses of
protein-DNA-RNA interrelationships. Such integrative measurements could explain "missing
pieces" in genomics associated with various diseases or disorders, e.g., cancer genomics. For
example, in the Examples presented herein, not all patients with PIK3CA DNA mutations responded
to a given PI3Ki; this is consistent with clinical experience (23, 24). However, proteomic
biomarkers revealed differential changes between responding and nonresponding cohorts. The
Examples indicate that protein profiling will help complement genotyping to shape therapeutic
advances for cancer and other diseases.
     [00351]     The Examples presented herein demonstrated proof of principle that the technology
described herein can work in clinical samples with a wide range of applications, including rare cell
profiling and companion diagnostics within cancer clinical trials.
     [00352]     In some embodiments, the technology described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can
be modified to suit the needs of various applications. For example, the methods described herein
(e.g., ABCD platform) can be adapted to work with both whole cells and/or cell lysates, and DNA
can be quantified with other readouts (for example, sequencing) to perform simultaneous
measurement of RNA, DNA, epigenetic, and protein expression. In some embodiments, the
methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can include a module to rapidly isolate and
measure entire populations of single cells. For example, additional components and wells can be
added to microfluidic devices such as the one described in the Examples to increase the throughput
of single-cell analysis.
     [00353]     Single-cell studies can be validated with a higher-throughput device. For example,
larger numbers of cells can be used to compare population differences and spreads between the
methods described herein and other gold standards (for example, flow cytometry). In some
embodiments, the methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can be used to identify novel
companion diagnostic markers or specific pathway markers for diagnosis of a disease or disorder
(e.g., cancer subtypes) and/or monitoring patients' response therapeutics.
     [00354]     The methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can enable larger-scale studies
to yield mechanistic insights into existing and/or novel therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the
methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can also be used for rare, single-cell (for example,
but not limited to circulating tumor cells) profiling to derive further understanding of their biological
and clinical relevance. Because genetic material from samples is preserved, the methods described
herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can be adapted to study proteins that interact with genetic regulatory
elements such as microRNAs. The methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) can be used for
                                                    100

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
various applications in research laboratories, academic hospitals, and pharmaceutical companies to
help propel drug trials and biological investigation.
Exemplary materials and methods for Examples 1-6
     [00355]      Study design. In order to determine if protein networks (as opposed to single
biomarkers) will reveal clinical or biological insights into how a disease or condition (e.g., cancers)
evolves and responds to drugs, a multiplexed platform for detecting protein expression, e.g., in
clinical samples and in cell lines, was developed. The Examples herein demonstrate the use of the
methods described herein (e.g., ABCD platform) in understanding treatment response in cancer
     [00356]      Clinical studies were performed on limited cohorts of patients for proof of principle.
The number of patients was selected based on a 1-year enrollment cycle (March 2012 to March
2013). All protein measurements were included as long as their signals were above a pre-determined
threshold. In one embodiment, the threshold was ~1.2-fold higher than that of its corresponding
nonspecific IgG isotype. This threshold was set to be over three times the median SE from the
antibody cohorts pooled. Only antibodies that were validated (via flow cytometry measurements on
cell lines) were included. All in vitro studies were performed in replicates (n = 3, unless otherwise
specified). After optimization, studies with the final protocol were repeated multiple times on
different days to ensure consistency and reproducibility. All experiments on clinical studies were
performed blinded during experimental procedures and raw data analysis.
     [00357]      Cell lines. Validation experiments were performed in the following cell lines, which
were purchased from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC): SKOV3, ES-2, OVCA429,
UCI-107, UCI-101, TOV-112D, TOV-21G, A2780, MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-436, A431, and
HT1080. Cells were passaged in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (Cellgro) or RPMI (Cellgro)
as recommended by ATCC. cell lines were derived from ovarian surface epithelium (OSE)
brushings cultured in 1:1 Medium 199/MCDB 105 (Sigma-Aldrich) with gentamicin (25 pg/ml) and
15% heat-inactivated serum. TIOSE6 cell lines were obtained by transfecting hTERT into NOSE
cells maintained in 1:1 Medium 199/MCDB 105 with gentamicin (25 pg/ml), 15% heat-inactivated
serum, and G418 (500 pg/ml) (25). After trypsinization, cells were immediately fixed with 1x
Lyse/Fix buffer (BD Bioscience) for 10 min at 37'C and then washed twice with SB+ [phosphate
buffered saline (PBS) with 2% bovine serum albumin (BSA)]. The cells were aliquoted into tubes
(~1  x  106 cells/ml) and stored at -20'C until labeling. Biological replicates were seeded in different
wells and collected separately. Cultured cells were processed and stored under the exact same
conditions as clinical samples. A total of 276 samples were prepared and analyzed in-dependently
via the barcoding method.
     [00358]      Clinical samples. The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board at the
Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center, and informed consent was obtained from all subjects (n = 10).
                                                     101

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
Fourteen minimally invasive procedures were performed on the 10 enrolled patients. Six patients
had primary lung adenocarcinomas. The four patients undergoing PI3Ki treatment with repeated
biopsies had carcinomas of varying origins in the abdomen, all with underlying P13K mutations. All
pretreatment biopsies were collected in the week before the first cycle of treatment. All post
treatment biopsies were collected after a cycle was completed, typically after several weeks to
months. Image-guided FNAs with a 22-gauge needle were obtained before routine core biopsies.
Correct needle location was confirmed by computed tomography imaging and real-time readout by
cytopathology. FNA samples were processed immediately by centrifugation and removal of excess
PBS. If there were visual clumps present before the fixation step, collagenase (Sigma-Aldrich) was
added at 0.2 mg/ml. Cells were fixed with Lyse/Fix buffer (BD Biosciences) for 10 min at 37'C and
washed twice with PBS with 2% BSA. All centrifugations were performed at 300g for 5 min.
Clinical samples were stored at -20'C. A total of 24 samples were prepared and analyzed
independently via the barcoding method.
     [00359]    Drug treatments of cell lines. To test the effect of drug treatment on protein
expression levels, the cell lines were treated with a number of different chemotherapeutic or
molecularly targeted drugs. A431 cell lines were dosed with gefitinib (Selleck Chemicals) in
medium with 1% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 12 hours at a concentration of 10 pM. The triple
negative human breast cancer MDA-MB-436 cell line was dosed with the PARP inhibitor olaparib
(10 pM in 0.10% DMSO in medium), cisplatin (10 pM, 1% Hanks' balanced salt solution in medium),
the PI3K/mTOR inhibitor PKI-587 (100 nM, 0.10% DMSO/medium), and the EGFR inhibitors
cetuximab (75 pg/ml in medium) and gefitinib (10 pM in 0.1% DMSO/medium). All molecularly
targeted agents (PKI-587, cetuximab, and gefitinib) were applied for 12 hours. DNA-damaging
agents olaparib and cisplatin were applied to cells for 3 days. Changes in protein expression levels
were compared to medium controls under identical conditions but without drug treatment.
     [00360]    Flow cytometry. Flow cytometry was used to validate protein expression levels in
bulk samples. Fixed cells stored at -20'C were thawed and then permeabilized with a saponin-based
buffer, PW+ (1x Perm/Wash Phosflow Buffer, BD Biosciences, with 2% BSA). About 200,000
cells per tube were incubated with primary antibodies for 1 hour at either 1 pg/ml or the appropriate
dilution as recommended by Cell Signaling for flow cytometry applications. An example list of
primary antibodies is shown in Table 1 above. After one wash with PW+, the appropriate secondary
antibodies targeting mouse, human, or rabbit IgG were applied. The specific secondary antibodies
used were anti-rabbit IgG (H+L) F(ab') 2 Fragment Alexa Fluor 647 Conjugate (Cell Signaling
#4414), anti-mouse IgG (H+L) F(ab') 2 Fragment Alexa Fluor 647 (Cell Signaling #44 10), and anti
human FITC (Abcam ab98623). Expression levels for each protein were then calculated by
                                                   102

    WO 2014/200767                                                                PCT/US2014/040731
normalizing the geometric mean from each antibody with the appropriate control IgG. These values
were then correlated to the expression values derived from the DNA barcoding technique.
     [00361]       Synthesis of photocleavable DNA-antibody bifunctional linker. The
photocleavable linker was synthesized as previously described in Ref. 9. For example, compound 1
(Fig. 2B, ~0.100 g, 0.334 mmol) was dispersed in 5 ml of dry dichloromethane (DCM) in a round
bottom flask under argon atmosphere. The flask was cooled to 00C by placing it on an ice bath. 2
(1H-Benzotriazole- 1-yl)- 1,1,3,3-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate (HBTU) (0.139 g, 0.368
mmol) and triethylamine (TEA) (109 pl, 0.835 mmol) were added to the solution. The reaction
mixture was stirred at 00 C for 5 min, and N-(2-aminoethyl)maleimide trifluoroacetate salt (0.093
mg, 0.368 mmol) was subsequently added. After stirring at 00 C for 15 min, the reaction mixture was
allowed to equilibrate to room temperature while being stirred for 18 h. After the reaction mixture
was diluted with DCM (45 ml), the organic phase was washed with water and saturated NaCl
solution, then dried over sodium sulfate. The organic layer was concentrated under reduced pressure
and charged to a SiO 2 column (eluent: 100% DCM to 30%methanol in DCM, v/v) for purification.
The yield of compound 2 was approximately 60%. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.37
(s, 1H), 6.77 (s, 2H), 5.44 (q, 4 J = 6 Hz, 1H), 4.03 (t, 3J = 6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.94 (s, 3H), 3.61 (t, 3J = 5.6
Hz, 2H), 3.35 (t, 2H, overlapping with the solvent residual peak), 2.32 (t, 3J = 7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.05 (m,
3H),  1.46 (d, 2 J = 6.4 Hz, 3H). MS (electrospray ionization mass spectrometry: ESI-MS) calculated:
421.15, found: 466.18 {M+HCOO}-.
     [00362]       Compound 2 (0.0 10 g, 0.024 mmol) was dissolved in anhydrous dimethylformamide
(DMF) (1 ml). N,N'-Disuccinimidyl carbonate (DSC;0.018 mg, 0.071 mmol) and TEA (12.5 pl,
0.096 mmol) were successively added to the solution. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 18
h. The reaction mixture was directly loaded onto a C18 reverse phase column for purification
(eluent: 5% acetonitrile in water to 95% acetonitrile in water, v/v). The yield of the photocleavable
bifunctional linker product was approximately 70%. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3): 7.63 (s, 1H), 7.05
(s, 1H), 6.67 (s, 2H), 6.48 (q, 4 J = 6.4 Hz, 1H), 6.03 (br, 1H), 4.08 (t, 3J = 5.8 Hz, 2H), 4.02 (s, 3H),
3.68 (m, 2H), 3.45 (m, 2H), 2.79 (s, 4H), 2.36 (t, 3J = 7 Hz, 2H), 2.15 (m, 3H), 1.75 (d, 2 J = 6.4 Hz,
3H). ESI-MS calculated: 562.15, found: 607.22 {M+HCOO}-.
     [00363]       DNA-antibody conjugations. Antibodies (e.g., listed in Table 1) were conjugated to
specially designed alien DNA sequences derived from the potato genome (exemplary sequences
shown in Table 2).
  Table 2. List of example 70mer alien sequences used for barcoding a target-binding molecule
                                  Target sequence                                       Tm           Tm
                                                                                      capture     reporter
                                                                                    probe (IC) probe (IC)
                                                     103

  WO 2014/200767                                     PCT/US2014/040731
GCTAAGTTTGGAATTAAGAAAGGAGTTGCTGGAGGTCCTTTCCAGCATAAG       79         79
AACCAGCCATATTGCTTAA (SEQ ID NO: 1)
TGCCTTCTGAAAGAGACGTTATTGTTGAAGCAAGAGATAGCTTAGTAACAA       80         78
ATGCTATAGCTCAGGCAGG (SEQ ID NO: 2)
CCTGATCATGCTTTGTCAGCAGACCCAGAAGAATTCATCACAATCACTGGA       82         78
AGATTGAGCTTAGGAAAGT (SEQ ID NO: 3)
GAGCGGATGTTATTGAGAAGCACTTTACCTTAGATTTCTAAAGCTCTCTTCC      78         82
TCCTCTCTTCTCCGCTCA (SEQ ID NO: 4)
ATCGGCTGTGCGATTGCTATTGATGTGTTAAGAAATTTGGTTTGTGATTGGC      80         81
AAATCTCTCCTCCAACTC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
ATTTGGATGAAGTCGGCTTTATGGTGACACAAATCATGATGAGCTGAGGTT       79         82
CTGACAGCAAATACGCTCA (SEQ ID NO: 6)
ATAGAACCATTTGCTGATGAGGTGACAACAGATCGTTGCACTTATGCTATC       80         78
CCGTTAGACTATCTGCTAT (SEQ ID NO: 7)
ACTACCATGTACTGCGCGAGACTAGCCTATCATTGGATTGCAGCGATGACT       82         81
ATATCTGAGCACCTGTGAC (SEQ ID NO: 8)
ATATGAGACGACTAGCACGCCATAGCGTTACATACGTGTCGATCCGAGAAC       80         81
ATCACTCTAATGACGAGTG (SEQ ID NO: 9)
CATCATCGACAGTTCGCAGCCCTATAACATGATACTAGATAACGATGCTCC       80         79
ATGTTAGTGAATGCGAGTC (SEQ ID NO: 10)
ACTCACACATAGTACTGACACGTAAGATAGGATGCTATATGGTCATTGGTC       79         79
ACCCGAGTTACGATCAAAT (SEQ ID NO: 11)
CAGATAGACTCACCTCGATATACAGGGAGCCACGACTTAGGACTATGGATA       82         78
AGTCATCTAAAGCGTCCGA (SEQ ID NO: 12)
CACTGTCTATACATGGACGACACTTTGCACATCATTACCAAAGAGCGCAAC       80         81
GTATCTAGGATTGAGCAGT (SEQ ID NO: 13)
AGACTAATTGATCGGACCGATGACAGTTCACAGAGGGATACACTGTTGAGC       80         80
CGACCCTATTAGCTGATAT (SEQ ID NO: 14)
TGATCCACACTGACGAATCATGTACTCACTCGATCGCCACTTCACACAAGA       80         79
ACACAAATTTGGAGTATTG (SEQ ID NO: 15)
CTCGAGAATCACACACAGTCGTCTAAGACACGACAAGTGCAACAGCAATC        81         78
CACATCTTAGATGAGATTAG (SEQ ID NO: 16)
CGATTACAAGGCGTGGTCAGATATTAGACTCCAGGGGATTTAATGCCAGTC       81         81
CAAGCTCTCTTCCACATTC (SEQ ID NO: 17)
ATCTGCATGAACGGGAAAGGAGTTCGATGAGACTTTCAAACCAACATAATG       82         80
TCTCTCCAACCTCAGGAAG (SEQ ID NO: 18)
ATAGTCTTTAGAGCCTCAGAATAGGCTGTGACGCGGAAGATAACTCATAAG       82         79
TGCCTCCCTCGGTAATTTG (SEQ ID NO: 19)
GCCAGGTATGCCGTGAACGAGTTCTTCATTAACTGTTATGTCTCGGGAGTCT      82         80
GATATTGGTACTTCTCCC (SEQ ID NO: 20)
TTAGCACCGATATCAATACTGATGATGTCACCGTCGAGCTCGTGTTGAACC       79         82
CTTCAAGTAACAACCTGAC (SEQ ID NO: 21)
ACTTGTTCGACTGACAGTTTAACGCCTGACATGAACGGCTTGCTTATAATGA      81         81
CTGGCAGGGTTATGAATG (SEQ ID NO: 22)
AAACTGACCGTACCGTTAGAAGAGAGTTCCGCTTCTCTCATGATGTGCGCA       82         81
TCTCCCACATTATTTGACC (SEQ ID NO: 23)
TGATGACAGTGACAATTGACCGAATTGCCTGATCATTACCTTACAGTGCGC       81         79
AGATTGGGATAATCGATTT (SEQ ID NO: 24)
TAGGCGTTGAGGCTTTGTTTCTTTGCCTCTATTGTAAGACTCATTCTGACGG      81         80
CCTCTAGTCGTTGATATG (SEQ ID NO: 25)
AAGGACATTCTTTCGAATGCAAGTTCAAGGCACATTTTCTATATCAGCCAC       80         79
CATGGGAGTGACATTTCTT (SEQ ID NO: 26)
                                     104

  WO 2014/200767                                     PCT/US2014/040731
CAATAGCTCCAGTAGTAATTGTTGTCGCTCCGCTGAGCAGTTAATCCTTATG      82         78
TCAACAACCTCAGCATAG (SEQ ID NO: 27)
TTCACCAAGCTGAACAGGGTTGCGCTGAATAAATTTTACAGGATACTATGG       82         79
ACAGGTTCAGAATCCTCGA (SEQ ID NO: 28)
GGAATGAATCCATTGCATTTCCATGAGAATGCAGACTTAATCGGACGTATC       79         80
GACTTTGGGTCCACGATAT (SEQ ID NO: 29)
GAGGTCTTGTTTCATCTAAACCGAGCAGGATGATAAGCCATAATTCGTAAC       79         79
CCGAGGGTATAATTCGTTA (SEQ ID NO: 30)
GTCCTTCTGCTTATGACATTCCGTGCATTCCGTAGCTACGTCAAGCGTTACA      82         80
TAGTGACGGAACTGTTAG (SEQ ID NO: 31)
TCTGTACCTTGGCACTCCATCTGGTAAGTCACTTATAGTTGTATGGTTTCAG      81         80
ATGAGGGAACGTGTAGGA (SEQ ID NO: 32)
AATTTCTGAGATTGTTGGTAGAGGGAGAAATGGGAAGGACATGTTTCAACA       79         80
ATCACCGGATTAAAGCCTT (SEQ ID NO: 33)
TGTGGAAGGACTGTGATAAACCAATAGGGTGTCAAGATCTGTAAGTATGGG       80         80
ATTAGGGATGTTCTGCCAG (SEQ ID NO: 34)
GCCGTCGGACATAACCACTTGGATATATACGTAGTTCATCAACCTTAACTC       80         82
CCTCTGGGTTCATTGGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 35)
GCTATTGCAGCAAAGAGAACAGACGCTTTAACTGGTATCGAGCGCTTAGAT       81         78
GGCTATATGGTCTACTAGA (SEQ ID NO: 36)
GAAATCAGATCAGTTCTACATTCGGTGGGAGCCCTCTATATGATTAGATCCT      82         80
GCAGCCGTACTTCCGTCA (SEQ ID NO: 37)
GGTGGCTTGATTTAACTGAATCAGGCCCTAACCATTTGTATTGTGTCTACAC      82         81
TGGTCCGTTCTTAGACGC (SEQ ID NO: 38)
GTTGTTTACCTTGTAGATCGACTTCACATCAGCGGCAGAAGGCCCTCAACG       80         81
TAAATCTGCTCCACATTTA (SEQ ID NO: 39)
TGTTGACATCCGCAACAATGTACCTTATATCGGCATATGGATCTCTTGATCG      81         80
AGCGAACCTCCCTTTAAC (SEQ ID NO: 40)
AAGGTGATTCACTAACCAGCTCTTACTCCTCGTTCGGTAGCAAATGAAATG       80         81
CCGGATGCTGTTGAAGTAG (SEQ ID NO: 41)
CGCATAACTCGAACCACAGTTACTATCAGTCGACATCCCACCAGAGAAATT       80         79
GAAGGATATTGTTGAAGCA (SEQ ID NO: 42)
GAATCTTGGAAGGTTTCCAGTTAAATAGGGCGTGCGAAGATTCCAGGCAGA       81         80
TTTCTCAGGAATTCAGTCA (SEQ ID NO: 43)
CTGCTAATGCTGATGGCCCACCTTCTCTATTTGTCGCCATTATATGCGTTGA      82         78
GGTTAGTTCAAGCAATAC (SEQ ID NO: 44)
GAACAGCTTTCCTTGCTCCCTCTAAATCACCATTTCCATTAGATGAAACCGA      80         78
CTTCATTCCAGACTCAAT (SEQ ID NO: 45)
AATGCATTTGCCAATGTAGCCATTGTATAACCAGATACACTAGTCCAATGT       79         81
CTCAACCAGGGATACCACA (SEQ ID NO: 46)
CTCAGAGCTTCAAATCTATCCTCTGGAATCTCTGTATAAGCCCTCGAATACA      79         81
ACTTGAGGTATCCCGCAT (SEQ ID NO: 47)
CTCTTCTGCCCTACATCACTATCGACTATAGCAACATATCTTTCTCGGGTAA      79         78
AGATTAGGCGTCCGATAT (SEQ ID NO: 48)
GTAACCGTAGTCGCGCAAACCGTTATATTACGGATATGATCCAAGTTATAT       81         79
ACATTAGGACGCGGTTGCT (SEQ ID NO: 49)
ATGGTTAGTAAACAGCTTTGATTTCTACATCCGCCTAGCAAACCCATAGTTC      79         81
TGCAGTAGATTCACAGCG (SEQ ID NO: 50)
TTCAGTTATAATGTGTCCAGCAGAAGCAGGAATTGAATTACCCAAGTTGCA       79         78
AGTGGAAGATTTGGAGTTA (SEQ ID NO: 51)
TTGCAGAAGCATTCCCAATATGGGTTTCAAGAGTTTAAAGAATGTGGAACA       80         79
TTCATGGGAACTGGTGAAG (SEQ ID NO: 52)
                                    105

  WO 2014/200767                                     PCT/US2014/040731
GCAACAACCTCATCTATACTGTGAATAGTCCCTCCGCTGTCTATATTGGAAC      80         82
TGCTGCAATGGTTGCTCT (SEQ ID NO: 53)
CCGCAGATTATCGTTTACGATGCATCCATGGTCTCCGACCCATTGAGAGAG       82         80
CCAATGGAATTAAGAACTT (SEQ ID NO: 54)
CACCATTCAGCCTGATATTGCGTTTGGTGTTGATGTGGCAACTGCATACTGA      81         80
ATAACTCCCTGAAATAGC (SEQ ID NO: 55)
CGTTACATACTCAGCCATAGGCTTCGATAACAGCATTATTGGAACCTCTGG       81         79
GACATTAACAGAGACAACA (SEQ ID NO: 56)
AGCGTACTAGGCATCTATTGGCTGAACTACCATGTAATTAGTGGTGTTCCA       81         80
GCCTCTAAGATGATGTGGT (SEQ ID NO: 57)
GATAGGATGCGACTGCGTATCATATAGGCTGCACATTAGCTGTTGCTTCAA       82         79
ATGCCAATCTTACCTCAAC (SEQ ID NO: 58)
AATGTATGAGCGGACACTATGCTAAGAGAGACTCCATCAATCCCTCTATGC       80         79
AAGATAACAACATCTGGCT (SEQ ID NO: 59)
TGCACATCATAGTGCGACGTTGATCCAGATAGACTATAAGACGGCTTGGCA       81         80
TTTACCCTAGTCACTATCT (SEQ ID NO: 60)
AATGTGTCAGCGGCCTAACTGTAATTGATCCACACCTTAGTTCGGGAGCTA       82         80
CCGATCTAATCAACCGTTT (SEQ ID NO: 61)
AGACTCCAGGTCGATCATTGGATAACCAACCAGTCGGTTATCCATGACGAG       82         80
TGAATAATCTTACCGCAGG (SEQ ID NO: 62)
TTTAGATCCTAAGAATGCGAAATGCCGATTCCCGCATATTTCGTAAGCTCGT      82         81
TCGGGACTTTGTATCGGC (SEQ ID NO: 63)
GAGTGATAGGATCACTCTAAGATCGGCCACTATACGACGCTGAGGTTTATA       79         81
TGAACGGCCGCAATTATGA (SEQ ID NO: 64)
TCTTGACCAACACCATGTCCGACATACTCCCTAACATGGGTACGGCGACTA       82         82
CTGAATCGTTCTTTGAGAG (SEQ ID NO: 65)
TGTGTAAATGAAAGCATCTGACTCAACAGGCATCAGTAACGATAATGAGTA       80         79
CAACGCCCAATGGTCATAG (SEQ ID NO: 66)
GCTTCAACGATTTCAATATACCCATTCGTCAGAGGAAGTAGTAGATCCCGC       79         81
CGTCTTAGTCGGATTGAAA (SEQ ID NO: 67)
TGTGGTTCCGGTTGCGTATAGATCATGATTCTTTACCCACCTCTTGCTGTAA      79         82
TGACCACAATCAACGTAG (SEQ ID NO: 68)
GTATCGGCGAACACGAAATCCTCTACTCTTGACAAACTCCCATTCCTACCTC      81         80
TCCAAAGTTAGAGGAGAT (SEQ ID NO: 69)
TTGCATTACAATGGCCGATCAAGATAAGGACATTCATAATGGAGCTATAGA       79         79
ATACAACACCAACGTCGCA (SEQ ID NO: 70)
TAATTCTTCCTTGATTCCGTGATTGGATGTCCCTCAGGAGTAGTAGTGTGGA      79         78
TGTTGTTGTTAGACACTT (SEQ ID NO: 71)
TGGAGGGTCGTAACCGCTATAGATGTGATTCACTCCAACAACTTCCCTATCT      81         78
TTAATCCTCTCACTCCAC (SEQ ID NO: 72)
TGAATAAATTCGTTGGCGCTGTAGAGATCGGAGTTCCGGATTCGTACTACT       80         80
CGTTTACGGGATTTACAGA (SEQ ID NO: 73)
GCTAAAGGAGACTCCGGTTTAAACGTCATCGCAATCTTTGATGGGCAAGCG       81         82
AGCACATAGATATGCGTTA (SEQ ID NO: 74)
AATATTCTCCGGCATGAATGGCGTGGGAATGAATCCGGCTTTGTGTTTATTG      82         81
TACATAGACGTTGTCCCG (SEQ ID NO: 75)
GAGAACGAGCGGAGCAAGATAGCCTTTAACTGAATCGTCGTCTTATTCCCA       81         79
GTACACATCATTCCAAATG (SEQ ID NO: 76)
ATATTCTGTACTCAGTGCCTATCCACCTAATAGGGACCTCAGCGACCTGTCC      78         81
GTTACATTAATGAAACAT (SEQ ID NO: 77)
CATTCCGTAGAATTACTACACCGCGGGATCATTATAACGTCGAAGAGCTTC       79         81
AGAGGTAAGTGAAACAAGG (SEQ ID NO: 78)
                                    106

  WO 2014/200767                                     PCT/US2014/040731
CCCGAAGGCATAATCAACATCCATTGTACATCCCTTGTTATAGCTCCAGGG       81         79
CCAGAGATTAAAGGAATAG (SEQ ID NO: 79)
CTAGGATGTAACTTGCGTTAGTTGCAGATTCGCTATATTGCTTAAGCTCTGA      79         79
GCTCCATGTCCAGTAATT (SEQ ID NO: 80)
TTCTCGCAGTTGTAAACTTATAGTGTCGCGCCTAGAAATTCATAGCCACAA       81         78
ATTCTCTTTGGGCAGAGAT (SEQ ID NO: 81)
TATAGTTACCAAGTACTATGGGTTGGTGGAAGCCGAACGTCTGTCCAAATG       80         80
GAGCTATAGTTAAGAGGGA (SEQ ID NO: 82)
AGACGCACACCGATAGAGGAGAGATCTTACATACCTGCTAAGGTTGTTAAT       81         79
GGCATTGCAGATAGCTTAG (SEQ ID NO: 83)
CCAGAAAGGTACAGGGCCAATTAACACGTAATCGGCCTCCAACTCTGCCAT       82         80
CTTTAAGCATTCTAAAGCT (SEQ ID NO: 84)
AATTCTCCGTCATGTGGTCGTCTGATGCCTAACTTTATCTGCTATCAATGTA      82         79
GAGGATCGTGCATTACCG (SEQ ID NO: 85)
CGCGGGCTAAGTAGTAGGGTTCTAATGCTACTTTAAATACGCTCACAATCC       80         81
AGGCTATATCGCTGTAGCT (SEQ ID NO: 86)
TAATCACTGTATTTGTTAATCATGGCTAGGCGGGTCCAATAGGGAAACTGA       79         81
TACTAACGTAGGAGCACGC (SEQ ID NO: 87)
GTATTCTGGAGAACCTCGTGGCAATGGCAATTCTCCACGAGTGCTAAGATC       82         81
TGAGCCGTTTACCAAAGAG (SEQ ID NO: 88)
ATAACCTGGTCTCCGGTTGATCGTTTACCTGAAACATGAGATTAGCAACGA       81         82
CCCAAACATGCCACTTCAC (SEQ ID NO: 89)
CACAACATGCAGCAGGCAAGTAGGGTTTCTGATTATAAGCATCCAGCAATA       81         81
AAGCCTCCTTCAAACCAAC (SEQ ID NO: 90)
CCCTAACCATGTTCTACGAGCGGTCACAGATTATATTCAACTACAAGTGTA       80         80
AATGTACGAGCGCCGAGAT (SEQ ID NO: 91)
GAAAGGCATTTGACGGGAGCATTGACGAAGACATACGGTAATTTGTCGTCG       82         81
CACGGACAATTAGTGAGTT (SEQ ID NO: 92)
TAATACTGGGTCACAAGATTAGATTCCAGCTGTGACGGCGATGAAGTCCGC       78         81
GAGGATATGTTTCTATATC (SEQ ID NO: 93)
GGTTCATTGTCTCATCGTACGGCTAATGTAGATACGAGGTAGCCGAGTATG       78         82
ACACACCACAGCAGTTAAT (SEQ ID NO: 94)
TTATGGATTCCGATGATCCTCCGCGTGGTACAAATGTTACCTTGATGCAATA      82         80
GTCTCTGTATGCGATCGG (SEQ ID NO: 95)
AGCGGTACTAATATGCTATGAGCGAGTTCCCTAACGAGAGATAACGACCCT       80         81
CTGTCGTAAGCACTTAAGG (SEQ ID NO: 96)
GAGGCATCTCTGCTAACTATATGCTGAACAGCTTTTCCACGATATAGGTAC       80         79
ATTGGACGCTTACAGGATA (SEQ ID NO: 97)
TTTCGGCCCAACTTATATGCTCTCCGAATCTTGGAGCAGTCATCGTAACCTG      82         80
ATAGCAATCTACGTCAAG (SEQ ID NO: 98)
ACTGCAGTGAGGGCAACCAATACAAATTAAATCTGCCTCCTATTGGGATAC       79         80
CTCCCGTCCATTAAGTTAG (SEQ ID NO: 99)
TTGGAGAAACAACCATACAGGTGTCTTTAACTACCTGGAACTCTACCAATT       78         80
GGAGCTTTCTTAGCTGTCT (SEQ ID NO: 100)
GCTATCAACTTCCCTATCCAAACCGTTGGATGAATTGAAAGCATAGATGTT       80         81
CCTTGGAGAGGTTTCCCAG (SEQ ID NO: 101)
TGAGGAGTAAGTATACGACGCCTGCACTAGTCACTTGCTGGCTTTGAGCCA       82         81
ATAGATGTGTTAATGGCTA (SEQ ID NO: 102)
CACAGCCAATCTCTTAGGACAGTACATGGTTAGTAACGTCTGTGGAAGTCA       79         82
TGAGCACACGATCTGTAAG (SEQ ID NO: 103)
TGAGTATCTACAGGTGTTCTCATGGGATCGTAGTTGGTCTGTCCAACATGAC      79         81
GTTATAGGCATAACTCCA (SEQ ID NO: 104)
                                     107

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
TACCTTAAACTGCGCTGGTAACTTGGATCGTGTAGTCATTGGGAGCAAACC                                81          81
ATCTGTCTTTCGTATGGAG (SEQ ID NO: 105)
GTTAGGTTCAGCCTCATTCCCTAAGAATCCAACTCATAACTCAATCATGCGC                               80          81
GTCCAGCAAAGACAAATG (SEQ ID NO: 106)
ACTGTCTAATACAACCGGATTCTAAGACCACATGGTCTTAGACGCGCGTGC                                79          79
AATTCTGAACTATATGATT (SEQ ID NO: 107)
TGGCTATTGCCGCAGTAGATCAAAGATTGAGAGAGATATAGATTACTCCAT                                81          79
GATACACCCAAGCCTCGAC (SEQ ID NO: 108)
GCAACAAGTGATGCTGACGCAGTTGTTATAGATGGCCTTTGGCTCACGCTA                                81          80
ATTGAGTTACTGTAGGAAA (SEQ ID NO: 109)
GCTATCTCACCAGCTCCTCACCATGACATTTACTCTCCACATTTATCTGCGA                               81          80
CCTGTTTCGTAAACGATG (SEQ ID NO: 110)
     [00364]     The 70-mer sequence length was selected for optimal hybridization with the
NanoString capture and reporter probes. Other sizes were evaluated as well. Shortening sequence
length tended to improve signal but reduce hybridization capability. For example, although 50-mer
sequences gave relatively higher signals when compared to controls, 30-mer sequences did not
reliably hybridize. Thus, 70-mer sequences were selected for reliable hybridization. However,
sequences that are longer or shorter than 70 nucleotides can also be used in the methods described
herein.
     [00365]     Antibodies (e.g., listed in Table 1) can be purchased from commercial sources, and
were initially purified from BSA and/or other contaminants with either a Zeba spin column or
centrifugal filter. Antibodies were then incubated with photocleavable bifunctional linker in PBS
(containing 5% N,N'-dimethylformamide and 10% 0.1 M NaHCO 3) at room temperature for 1.5
hours. Afterward, excess reagents were removed from maleimide-activated antibodies with a Zeba
spin column [7000 molecular weight cutoff (MWCO), eluent: PBS].
     [00366]     Thiol-modified DNA oligos (from Integrated DNA Technologies) were reduced with
dithiothreitol (DTT; 100 mM) in PBS (1 mM EDTA, pH 8.0) for 2 hours at room temperature. The
reduced DNA oligos were then purified with NAP-5 column (GE Healthcare), with deionized water
as the eluent. The fractions containing DTT (determined with the microBCA assay) were discarded.
The remaining reduced DNA fractions were pooled and concentrated with a 3000 MWCO Amicon
filter (Millipore).
     [00367]     The maleimide-activated antibodies were incubated with the reduced DNA oligos in
PBS solution. In a typical conjugation process, 15-fold molar excess of DNA oligos was incubated
with maleimide-activated antibodies. The conjugation reaction was allowed to proceed for 12 hours
at 4'C. DNA barcode-antibody conjugates were purified with a Millipore 1OOK MWCO centrifugal
filter followed by three washes with PBS. After the antibodies were mixed, a final purification of
excess DNA was conducted with protein A/G-coated magnetic beads (Pierce/Thermo Scientific).
The commercial protocol from Thermo for magnetic separation was only slightly modified to use a
                                                    108

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
tris-buffered saline (TBS)/0. 1% Tween wash buffer and a Gentle Ag/Ab Elution Buffer (Thermo
Scientific). Three elutions were performed for 20 min each. Solvent antibody was exchanged into
pure TBS with a Zeba desalting column (7000 MWCO).
     [00368]     Antibody characterization. Antibodies were aliquoted and stored at concentrations
of 0.25 mg/ml in PBS with BSA (0.15 mg/ml) at -20'C, with adequate usage for at least twelve
experimental runs (the number of runs on each NanoString cartridge) to avoid freeze-thaw cycles.
Various other storage methods were tested, including glycerol or 4'C storage, but aliquoting and
freezing showed the most consistent, high-fidelity storage for up to 9 months. Antibody
concentrations were determined via microBCA assay (Thermo Scientific). DNA concentrations were
also independently determined using the Qubit ssDNA kit (Invitrogen) to quantify the relative
number of DNA per antibody. To achieve relative DNA/Ab measurements with higher sensitivity
across the cohort of antibodies, in some embodiments, the NanoString platform was used to add
antibody cocktails under two conditions: (1) "Control": antibodies were added in their native forms
with DNA still attached, and (2) "Released DNA": antibodies were treated with proteinase K and
photocleaved. Under the control condition, the DNA was still attached to the antibody and thus
could not simultaneously bind to the NanoString assay's reporter and capture probe. The difference
in DNA readings between these two measurements thus revealed the relative number of DNA per
antibody. This difference was divided by the isotype control measurement to account for possible
inherent experimental error in protein concentration and/or antibody isolation (see Fig. 6 for relative
number of DNA:Ab ratio). Antibodies were rigorously tested and validated prior to use. Of 110
antibodies, 88 were selected for the final panel and all had been previously validated from specific
vendors (primarily Cell Signaling Technologies, BioLegend; Table 1). Antibodies that did not work
with DNA conjugates did not work in their native state either and were excluded; DNA conjugated
antibodies worked as well as the parent antibody (Figs. 7A-7B).
     [00369]     Antibody staining and DNA collection for protein profiling. Prior to cell staining,
antibodies were pooled into a cocktail with TBS, 0.1% Tween, and 0.2 mg/ml cysteine (to avoid
DNA cross-reaction with other antibodies). Tubes were coated with serum blocking buffer overnight
to prevent samples from non-specifically binding to tube walls. Cells were then incubated for a
minimum of one hour with a blocking buffer at 37'C: 10% v/v Rabbit serum (Jackson Immuno
Research Labs, 011-000-120), 2% BSA, 1 mg/ml SS salmon sperm DNA (Sigma Aldrich, D7656),
0.2 mg/ml cysteine (Sigma Aldrich), 20X Perm (BD Bioscience) or 0.1% Tween 20 (Sigma
Aldrich)-all in PBS to minimize non-specific antibody or DNA binding. The antibody cocktail was
then added to the fixed and permeabilized cells and incubated for one hour at RT with intermittent
mixing.
                                                   109

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
     [00370]     After incubation, the cells were washed with PW+ with 0.05 mg/ml of DS sheared
salmon sperm DNA (Life Technology, AM9680). Either two 15-ml washes in 15-ml tubes or four
1.5-ml washes in 1.7-ml microcentrifuge tubes were performed. Blocking and wash steps were
desired for achieving low background even with femtomolar detection. All washes were performed
on ice. Labeled cells could then be counted and selected for lysis/proteinase K/photocleavage to
release the DNA. Lysis buffer was used on 10 pl of cells (with up to 50,000 cells), 34.2 pl of ATL
lysis buffer (Qiagen) and 5.8 pl of Proteinase K (Qiagen). This reaction proceeded at 56'C for a
minimum of 30 min. Photocleavage was then performed using long UV wavelength light (model) for
15 min. This resulted in a cell-lysis mix with released DNA. Samples were spun down at 14,000 x g
for 10 min. Supernatant was collected, and serial dilutions were performed in nuclease-free water
(Invitrogen, AM9937) to collect DNA equivalent to 50-100 cells to avoid saturating the read-out
cartridge (Nanostring). This amount resulted in cartridge binding densities within the linear range of
quantitation. Binding densities in the lower range (0.05- 0.2) were still linear and gave consistent
protein profiles comparable to those in the higher range (1.5-2.5). At lower binding densities (for
example single cells), the majority of markers could be measured, with the exception of low
expression markers with weaker antibodies (pJAK2, pChk2).
     [00371]     Immunofluorescence. Immunofluorescence provided an independent measure and
validated marker changes from paclitaxel (Taxol) treatment (Figs. 16A-16B). HT1080 cells were
seeded at 4,000 cells per well in 96 well plates (Grenier), which were compatible with high
resolution plates, and grown for 24h in DMEM media before either being treated with Paclitaxel at
100 nM or kept in control media. After 24 h, cells were fixed for 15 min at RT, then gently washed
on a rocker with PBS/0. 1% Tween for 5 min, repeated 3 times. All subsequent washes were also
performed with this buffer, time duration, and repetition protocol.
     [00372]     Cells were then permeabilized with ice cold 90% methanol for 20 min. After
washing, cells were blocked for 1 h at room temperature with blocking buffer (Odyssey). Primary
antibodies (all from Cell Signaling; see Table 1) were then added in blocking buffer at prescribed
dilutions, sealed, covered in foil and incubated overnight. The next day, after washing, anti-rabbit
FITC secondary antibodies, 1:500 Hoechst and 1:200 whole-cell stain blue (Cellomics) were added
(all primary antibodies were rabbit IgGs) at 2 pg/ml and incubated for 2 h. Final wash steps were
performed in PBS only, and the cells were subsequently imaged at 20X using an Olympus
microscope (BX63) with a Delta Vision chamber and software. All images were taken in biological
triplicate. Fluorescence intensity for each cell was determined using CellProfiler, which used
Hoechst and whole-cell stain to delineate cell boundaries and size constraints to discount debris.
Additional in-house MATLAB (Mathworks) code was then used to calculate marker signals for each
condition and calculate the changes between treated and untreated cells.
                                                    110

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
     [00373]     Immunoblotting and dot blotting. OVCAR3, SKOV3, CAOV3, A2780, and
OVCAR429 cell lines were plated in 6-well dishes and grown for 72 h prior to lysis for Western blot
analysis. Cells were washed twice with ice-cold PBS, scraped into 200 pl per dish of radio
immunoprecipitation assay buffer (RIPA buffer) (Cell Signaling Technology), containing HALT
protease and phosphatase inhibitor cocktail (Pierce), and transferred to 2 ml microcentrifuge tubes.
Lysates was passed through a 23-g syringe 5 times, and then incubated 5 min on ice with vortexing
every min. Lysates were centrifuged 15 min at 14,000 x g (4'C). Supernatant was transferred to a
new microcentrifuge tube and total protein was measured using the BCA assay. Equal total protein
was prepared, boiled, and loaded on a Novex NuPAGE 4-12% Bis-Tris gel and then transferred to
nitrocellulose.
     [00374]     Membranes were blocked for 1 h at room temperature in SuperBlock T20 (TBS)
buffer (Pierce) and then washed briefly in tris-buffered saline (TBS) with 0.1% Tween-20 (TBST).
Membranes were then incubated overnight at 4'C with rocking in p53 (1:1000, Cell Signaling),
DNA-conjugated p53 (1:1000), pS6RP (1:1000, Cell Signaling), or DNA-conjugated pS6RP
(1:1000) primary antibodies diluted in TBST with 10% SuperBlock. Membranes were washed three
times, 5 min each in TBST and then incubated 1 h at room temperature in goat a-rabbit HRP
conjugated secondary antibody diluted 1:1000 in TBST with 10% SuperBlock. Following washing,
signal was detected using SuperSignal West Pico chemiluminescent substrate (Pierce). For the Ki67
antibodies, lug cell lysates (prior to denaturing) from above were loaded onto nitrocellulose a Bio
Dot microfiltration apparatus (Bio-Rad). Blots were then processed as above, using a Ki67 or DNA
conjugated Ki67 antibody (1:1000, BD Biosciences) and an a-mouse HRP conjugated secondary
antibody diluted as above. Dot blots were detected as above.
     [00375]     Single-cell isolation and processing. After antibody staining, single cells were
picked with a micromanipulator. Cells were stained with Hoechst 3342 (Molecular Probes), added
to an open 10-cm dish, and imaged with a TE2000 microscope (Nikon). Single cells were placed
directly into a PCR tube. Five microliters of lysis buffer/proteinase K was added (4.5 pl of ATL
buffer and 0.5 pl of proteinase K). Lysis/enzymatic cleavage proceeded for 30 min at 56'C before
photocleavage for 15 min. Reporter and capture probes (NanoString Technologies) were then
directly added to this tube according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
     [00376]     Data analysis: Calculating proteomic expression profiles. Protein expression
profiles were extracted from raw data as follows. First, raw DNA counts were normalized via the
mean of the internal NanoString positive controls, which account for hybridization efficiency. These
counts were then converted to antibody expression values using the relative DNA/antibody counts.
Next, average background signal from control IgG was subtracted. Last, housekeeping genes were
used for normalization that accounted for cell number variations. Signals were normalized via a
                                                    111

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
house-keeping protein, e.g.,  p-tubulin. For the taxol treatments, signals were normalized via the
geometric mean of histone H3, GAPDH, and actin rather than tubulin, because tubulin is a primary
target of taxol. Data were transformed into log2 scale as denoted in captions.
     [00377]     Data analysis: Clustering. Heat maps and clustergrams were plotted using
MATLAB with a matrix input of marker expression values that were calculated as detailed above.
All shown clustergrams were performed as a weighted linkage and were clustered using correlation
values as a distance metric. Some clustergrams were normalized by row, as specified in captions, to
highlight marker differences among different patients. If a marker was not detectable in one of the
patients, it was removed from the matrix or heat map and is not displayed.
     [00378]     Statistical analysis. Raw data from NanoString DNA counts were normalized by
first using the nSolver analysis software to account for hybridization differences on the cartridge.
Only positive controls A to D on the NanoString software were used in normalization. DNA counts
were within the linear range of detection and met all other criteria for inclusion as determined by the
nSolver software (maximum fields of view, image quality, etc.). After determining an expression
value by taking into account nonspecific IgG binding and housekeeping genes (cell count), data were
log2-transformed.
     [00379]     Correlation between single-cell analysis and bulk measurement was calculated in
GraphPad Prism. Spearman r values were calculated without assuming a normal, consistent
distribution. Two-sided P values were calculated, where significant markers were identified by
comparing two groups (for example, treated versus untreated) in Prism and performing pairwise t
tests with an FDR of 0.2 for multiple test correction error. Significant marker changes and their P
values between gefitinib-treated and untreated A431 single cells are shown in Table 3 below. For
heat maps, if any samples had markers below threshold, the entire marker row was removed (no
imputed data values were used). To identify differentiating markers between responders and
nonresponders, a multiclass sequential forward selection-ranking algorithm was used. The patients
were classified as responders or nonresponders based on known data. Class separability was
measured by the Bhattacharya distance.
     [00380]     Table 3: Significant markers between A431 single cells with or without gefitinib
treatment. Six markers out of 49 markers showed significant difference between gefitinib-treated
vs. untreated A431 single cells and the average expression values as calculated via Nanostring
profiling for each cohort. Marker significance was determined by pairwise t-testing and corrected for
multiple testing errors by using a false discovery rate of 0.2.
             Phospho-S6RP                         0.0067212         1171.3          58.4
             Phospho-histone H3                   0.009 1305        4920.6         982.0
                                                    112

   WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
            Ku80                                 0.0098001         770.2           120.6
            FGFR4                                0.0106319         914.9           114.1
            CD56                                 0.0117795         1906.5          334.4
            Dimethyl-histone H3 (Lys36)          0.0119939         695.7            86.9
References
    1. M. Basik, A. Aguilar-Mahecha, C. Rousseau, Z. Diaz, S. Tejpar, A. Spatz, C. M.
Greenwood, G. Batist, Biopsies: Next-generation biospecimens for tailoring therapy. Nat. Rev. Clin.
Oncol. 10, 437-450 (2013).
    2. B. Vogelstein, N. Papadopoulos, V. E. Velculescu, S. Zhou, L. A. Diaz Jr., K. W. Kinzler,
Cancer genome landscapes. Science 339, 1546-1558 (2013).
    3.  J. G. Paez, P. A. Jsnne, J. C. Lee, S. Tracy, H. Greulich, S. Gabriel, P. Herman, F. J. Kaye,
N. Lindeman, T. J. Boggon, K. Naoki, H. Sasaki, V. Fujii, M. J. Eck, W. R. Sellers, B. E. Johnson,
M. Meyerson, EGFR mutations in lung cancer: Correlation with clinical response to gefitinib
therapy. Science 304, 1497-1500 (2004).
    4. M. Soda, V. L. Choi, M. Enomoto, S. Takada, V. Vamashita, S. Ishikawa, S. Fujiwara, H.
Watanabe, K. Kurashina, H. Hatanaka, M. Bando, S. Ohno, V. Ishikawa, H. Aburatani, T. Niki, V.
Sohara, V. Sugiyama, H. Mano, Identification of the transforming EML4-ALK fusion gene in non
small-cell lung cancer. Nature 448, 561-566 (2007).
    5.  M. B. Vaffe, The scientific drunk and the lamppost: Massive sequencing efforts in cancer
discovery and treatment. Sci. Signal. 6, pe13 (2013).
    6. E. D. Hsi, A practical approach for evaluating new antibodies in the clinical immunohisto
chemistry laboratory. Arch. Pathol. Lab. Med. 125, 289-294 (2001).
    7. E. J. Lanni, S. S. Rubakhin, J. V. Sweedler, Mass spectrometry imaging and profiling of
single cells. J. Proteomics 75, 5036-5051 (2012).
    8.  S. C. Bendall, E. F. Simonds, P. Qiu, A. D. Amir el, P. 0. Krutzik, R. Finck, R. V. Bruggner,
R. Melamed, A. Trejo, 0. I. Ornatsky, R. S. Balderas, S. K. Plevritis, K. Sachs, D. Pe'er, S. D.
Tanner, G. P. Nolan, Single-cell mass cytometry of differential immune and drug responses across a
human hematopoietic continuum. Science 332, 687-696 (2011).
    9.  S. S. Agasti, M. Liong, V. M. Peterson, H. Lee, R. Weissleder, Photocleavable DNA
barcode-antibody conjugates allow sensitive and multiplexed protein analysis in single cells. J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 134, 18499-18502 (2012).
    10. P. Fortina, S. Surrey, Digital mRNA profiling. Nat. Biotechnol. 26, 293-294 (2008).
    11. G. K. Geiss, R. E. Bumgarner, B. Birditt, T. Dahl, N. Dowidar, D. L. Dunaway, H. P. Fell, S.
Ferree, R. D. George, T. Grogan, J. J. James, M. Maysuria, J. D. Mitton, P. Oliveri, J. L. Osborn, T.
                                                   113

    WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
Peng, A. L. Ratcliffe, P. J. Webster, E. H. Davidson, L. Hood, K. Dimitrov, Direct multiplexed
measurement of gene expression with color-coded probe pairs. Nat. Biotechnol. 26, 317-325
(2008).
     12. J. Chung, D. Issadore, A. Ullal, K. Lee, R. Weissleder, H. Lee, Rare cell isolation and
profiling on a hybrid magnetic/size-sorting chip. Biomicrofluidics 7, 054107 (2013).
     13. S. L. Spencer, S. Gaudet, J. G. Albeck, J. M. Burke, P. K. Sorger, Non-genetic origins of
cell-to-cell variability in TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Nature 459, 428-432 (2009).
     14. J. N. Andersen, S. Sathyanarayanan, A. Di Bacco, A. Chi, T. Zhang, A. H. Chen, B.
Dolinski, M. Kraus, B. Roberts, W. Arthur, R. A. Klinghoffer, D. Gargano, L. Li, I. Feldman, B.
Lynch, J. Rush, R. C. Hendrickson, P. Blume-Jensen, C. P. Paweletz, Pathway-based identification
of biomarkers for targeted therapeutics: Personalized oncology with P13K pathway inhibitors. Sci.
Transl. Med. 2, 43ra55 (2010).
     15. S. Shintani, C. Li, M. Mihara, N. Terakado, J. Vano, K. Nakashiro, H. Hamakawa,
Enhancement of tumor radioresponse by combined treatment with gefitinib (Iressa, ZD1839), an
epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is accompanied by inhibition of DNA
damage repair and cell growth in oral cancer. Int. J. Cancer 107, 1030-1037 (2003).
     16. D. Hanahan, R. A. Weinberg, Hallmarks of cancer: The next generation. Cell 144, 646-674
(2011).
     17. J. Wang, J. V. Zhou, G. S. Wu, Bim protein degradation contributes to cisplatin resistance.
J. Biol. Chem. 286, 22384-22392 (2011).
     18. C. Benoist, N. Hacohen, Immunology. Flow cytometry, amped up. Science 332, 677-678
(2011).
     19. N. McGranahan, R. A. Burrell, D. Endesfelder, M. R. Novelli, C. Swanton, Cancer
chromosomal instability: Therapeutic and diagnostic challenges. EMBO Rep. 13, 528-538 (2012).
     20. J. Bousquet, J. M. Anto, P. J. Sterk, I. M. Adcock, K. F. Chung, J. Roca, A. Agusti, C.
Brightling, A. Cambon-Thomsen, A. Cesario, S. Abdelhak, S. E. Antonarakis, A. Avignon, A.
Ballabio, E. Baraldi, A. Baranov, T. Bieber, J. Bockaert, S. Brahmachari, C. Brambilla, J. Bringer,
M. Dauzat, I. Ernberg, L. Fabbri, P. Froguel, D. Galas, T. Gojobori, P. Hunter, C. Jorgensen, F.
Kauffmann, P. Kourilsky, M. L. Kowalski, D. Lancet, C. L. Pen, J. Mallet, B. Mayosi, J. Mercier, A.
Metspalu, J. H. Nadeau, G. Ninot, D. Noble, M. Oztiirk, S. Palkonen, C. Pr6faut, K. Rabe, E.
Renard, R. G. Roberts, B. Samolinski, H. J. Schiinemann, H. U. Simon, M. B. Soares, G. Superti
Furga, J. Tegner, S. Verjovski-Almeida, P. Wellstead, 0. Wolkenhauer, E. Wouters, R. Balling, A. J.
Brookes, D. Charron, C. Pison, Z. Chen, L. Hood, C. Auffray, Systems medicine and integrated care
to combat chronic noncommunicable diseases. Genome Med. 3, 43 (2011).
                                                     114

   WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
    21. E. E. Schadt, Molecular networks as sensors and drivers of common human diseases. Nature
461, 218-223 (2009).
    22. M. J. Gerdes, C. J. Sevinsky, A. Sood, S. Adak, M. 0. Bello, A. Bordwell, A. Can, A.
Corwin, S. Dinn, R. J. Filkins, D. Hollman, V. Kamath, S. Kaanumalle, K. Kenny, M. Larsen, M.
Lazare,  Q. Li, C. Lowes, C. C. McCulloch, E. McDonough, M. C. Montalto, Z. Pang, J. Rittscher, A.
Santamaria-Pang, B. D. Sarachan, M. L. Seel, A. Seppo, K. Shaikh, Y. Sui, J. Zhang, F. Ginty,
Highly multiplexed single-cell analysis of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded cancer tissue. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 110, 11982-11987 (2013).
    23. F. Janku, J. J. Wheler, S. N. Westin, S. L. Moulder, A. Naing, A. M. Tsimberidou, S. Fu, G.
S. Falchook, D. S. Hong, I. Garrido-Laguna, R. Luthra, J. J. Lee, K. H. Lu, R. Kurzrock,
PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitors in patients with breast and gynecologic malignancies harboring
PIK3CA mutations. J. Clin. Oncol. 30, 777-782 (2012).
    24. M. Elkabets, S. Vora, D. Juric, N. Morse, M. Mino-Kenudson, T. Muranen, J. Tao, A. B.
Campos, J. Rodon, Y. H. Ibrahim, V. Serra, V. Rodrik-Outmezguine, S. Hazra, S. Singh, P. Kim, C.
Quadt, M. Liu, A. Huang, N. Rosen, J. A. Engelman, M. Scaltriti, J. Baselga, mTORC1 inhibition is
required for sensitivity to P13K p 1 10a inhibitors in PIK3CA-mutant breast cancer. Sci. Transl. Med.
5, 196ra99 (2013).
    25. K. K. Zorn, A. A. Jazaeri, C. S. Awtrey, G. J. Gardner, S. C. Mok, J. Boyd, M. J. Birrer,
Choice of normal ovarian control influences determination of differentially expressed genes in
ovarian cancer expression profiling studies. Clin. Cancer Res. 9, 4811-4818 (2003).
    26. N. K. Devaraj, R. Upadhyay, J. B. Haun, S. A. Hilderbrand, R. Weissleder, Fast and
sensitive pretargeted labeling of cancer cells through a tetrazine/trans-cyclooctene cycloaddition.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 48, 7013-7016 (2009).
                                                     115

   WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
                                                CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1   A method for detecting a plurality of target molecules in a sample comprising:
       a.      contacting a sample with a composition comprising a plurality of target probes,
               wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises:
                   i.   a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a distinct target molecule
                          in the sample;
                  ii.   an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding
                          molecule; and
                 iii.   a cleavable linker between the target-binding molecule and the identification
                          nucleotide sequence;
       b.      separating unbound target probes from a plurality of complexes in the sample, each
               complex having a target molecule and a single target probe bound thereto, wherein
               the complex does not have a second target probe binding to a different region of the
               target molecule;
       c.      releasing the identification nucleotide sequences from the plurality of complexes;
               and
       d.      detecting signals from the released identification nucleotide sequences based on a
               non-gel electrophoresis method, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the
               identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target
               binding molecules and detecting a plurality of different target molecules in the
               sample.
2.  The method of claim 1, wherein the non-gel electrophoresis method comprises sequencing,
    quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed (PCR), mass cytometry,
    fluorophore-inactivated multiplexed immunofluorescence, hybridization-based methods,
    fluorescence hybridization-based methods, or any combinations thereof
3.  The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising, prior to the detecting step (d), coupling the
    released identification nucleotide sequences from the releasing step (c) to a detection
    composition comprising a plurality of reporter probes, wherein each reporter probe in the
    plurality comprises: a first target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a first portion
    of the identification nucleotide sequence; and a detectable label that identifies the reporter
    probe.
                                                   116

    WO 2014/200767                                                              PCT/US2014/040731
4.   The method of claim 3, wherein the detecting comprises detecting signals from the respective
     detectable labels of the reporter probes that are coupled to the released identification nucleotide
     sequences, wherein the signals are distinguishable for the respective reporter probes and bound
     the identification nucleotide sequences, thereby identifying the corresponding target-binding
     molecules and detecting a plurality of target molecules in the sample.
5.   The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein the detection composition further comprises a plurality of
     capture probes, wherein each capture probe comprises (i) a second target probe-specific region
     that is capable of binding a second portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) an
     affinity tag.
6.   The method of claim 5, wherein the affinity tag of the capture probe permits immobilization of
     the released identification nucleotide sequences onto a solid substrate, upon coupling to the
     detection composition.
7.   The method of any of claims 3-6, wherein the detectable label of the reporter probes comprises
     one or more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe.
8.   The method of claim 7, wherein the unique signal is an optical signal.
9.   The method of claim 8, wherein the optical signal comprises a sequence of light-emitting
     signals.
10. The method of any of claims 7-9, wherein the one or more labeling molecules are selected from
     the group consisting of a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a
     chemiluminescent moiety, and any combinations thereof
11.  The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein the detecting step (d) comprises no amplification of
     the released identification nucleotide sequences.
12. The method of any of claims 3-11, wherein the detecting step (d) comprises no amplification of
     the first target probe-specific region, or the second target probe-specific region.
13. The method of any of claims 1-12, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences are selected
     such that they do not cross-react with a human genome.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences are derived from a
     potato genome.
15. The method of any of claims 1-14, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a
     length of about 30-100 nucleotides.
16. The method of any of claims 1-15, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a
     length of about 70 nucleotides.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the identification nucleotide sequences have a sequence
     selected from Table 2 (SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 110).
                                                     117

    WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
18. The method of any of claims 1-17, wherein the cleavable linker is a cleavable, non-hybridizable
     linker.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker is sensitive to an
     enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g., dithiothreitol),
     or any combination thereof.
20. The method of claim 18 or 19, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers are selected
     from the group consisting of hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers, phosphate-based
     cleavable linkers, acid cleavable linkers, ester-based cleavable linkers, peptide-based cleavable
     linkers, photocleavable linkers, and any combinations thereof.
21.  The method of any of claims 18-20, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
     disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a nitrobenzyl group, a
     nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo hydroxyquinoline group, a
     hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any combinations thereof
22. The method of any of claims 18-21, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
     photocleavable linker.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the photocleavable linker is selected from the group
     consisting of molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures
     of the molecules (i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
                                                    118

   WO 2014/200767                                                           PCT/US2014/040731
                                                                             (X:(X
                                                                 V'W
wherein each of the black dots in each molecule represents a connecting or coupling point that
connects, directly or indirectly, to the target-binding molecule or the indentification nucleotide
sequence.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the photocleavable linker comprises the molecule (xiv).
25. The method of any of claims 22-24, wherein the releasing of the identification nucleotide
    sequences from the bound target probes comprises exposing the bound target probes to
    ultraviolet light.
26. The method of any of claims 1-25, wherein the sample comprises less than 500 cells.
27. The method of any of claims 1-26, wherein the sample is a single-cell sample.
28. The method of any of claims 1-27, wherein the sample comprises cells isolated from a fine
    needle aspirate.
29. The method of any of claims 1-28, further comprising, prior to the contacting, separating target
    cells from interfering cells in the sample.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the separating comprises labeling the interfering cells or
    target cells with magnetic particles and separating them from the sample by magnetic
    separation.
                                                   119

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
31.  The method of claim 30, wherein the magnetic separation is performed in a microfluidic device.
32. The method of any of claims 29-3 1, wherein the target cells comprise rare cells.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the rare cells are selected from the group consisting of
     circulating tumor cells, fetal cells, stem cells, immune cells, clonal cells, and any combination
     thereof
34. The method of any of claims 29-33, wherein the target cells comprise tumor cells from a liquid
     biopsy (e.g., peritoneal, pleural, cerebrospinal fluid, and/or blood), a mucosal swap, a skin
     biopsy, a stool sample, or any combinations thereof
35. The method of any of claims 1-34, wherein the target molecules comprise proteins, peptides,
     metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells, and any
     combinations thereof.
36. The method of any of claims 1-35, further comprising permeabilizing the target cells in the
     sample.
37. The method of any of claims 1-36, wherein the composition further comprises a plurality of
     control probes, wherein each control probe in the plurality comprises:
          i.    a control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the
                  sample;
         ii.    an identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and
        iii.    a cleavable linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification
                  control sequence.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the control-binding molecule binds to a control protein.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the control protein is selected from the group consisting of
     housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding proteins,
     and any combinations thereof
40. The method of any of claims 1-39, further comprising thresholding the signals.
41.  The method of claim 40, wherein the signals are thresholded on the basis of nonspecific
     binding.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the threshold is greater than that of the signals from the non
     specific binding.
43. The method of any of claims 40-42, wherein the threshold is determined by using standard
     deviation and measurement error from at least one control protein.
44. The method of any of claims 1-43, further comprising quantifying the signals by normalizing
     the signals associated with the target probes by the signals associated with the control probes.
45. The method of any of claims 1-44, further comprising extracting a nucleic acid molecule from
     the same sample for nucleic acid analysis.
                                                     120

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
46. The method of claim 45, further comprising subjecting the nucleic acid molecule to a nucleic
     acid analysis.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the nucleic acid analysis comprises sequencing, quantitative
     polymerase chain reaction (PCR), multiplexed PCR, DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing, de
     novo sequencing, next-generation sequencing such as massively parallel signature sequencing
     (MPSS), polony sequencing, pyrosequencing, Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD
     sequencing, ion semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single
     molecule sequencing, single molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing, nanopore DNA
     sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, sequencing with mass spectrometry, microfluidic
     Sanger sequencing, microscopy-based sequencing techniques, RNA polymerase (RNAP)
     sequencing, or any combinations thereof.
48. The method of any of claims 45-47, wherein the target molecules to be detected in the sample
     comprise proteins, thereby detecting proteins and nucleic acid molecules from the same sample.
49. A kit for multiplexed detection of a plurality of different target molecules from a sample
     comprising:
            a. a plurality of target probes, wherein each target probe in the plurality comprises:
                      i. a target-binding molecule that specifically binds to a distinct target molecule
                         in the sample;
                     ii. an identification nucleotide sequence that identifies the target-binding
                         molecule; and
                    iii. a cleavable, non-hybridizable linker between the target-binding molecule and
                         the identification nucleotide sequence;
            b. a plurality of reporter probes, wherein each reporter probe comprises:
                      i. a first target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a first portion of
                         the identification nucleotide sequence; and
                     ii. a detectable label that identifies the reporter probe.
50. The kit of claim 49, further comprising a plurality of capture probes, wherein each capture
     probe comprises (i) a second target probe-specific region that is capable of binding a second
     portion of the identification nucleotide sequence; and (ii) an affinity tag.
51.  The kit of claim 49 or 50, wherein the detectable label of the reporter probes comprises one or
     more labeling molecules that create a unique signal for each reporter probe.
52. The kit of claim 51, wherein the unique signal is an optical signal.
53. The kit of claim 52, wherein the optical signal comprises a sequence of light-emitting signals.
                                                     121

   WO 2014/200767                                                             PCT/US2014/040731
54. The kit of any of claims 51-53, wherein the one or more labeling molecules are selected from
    the group consisting of a fluorochrome moiety, a fluorescent moiety, a dye moiety, a
    chemiluminescent moiety, and any combinations thereof
55. The kit of any of claims 49-54, wherein the target-binding molecule comprises proteins,
    peptides, metabolites, lipids, carbohydrates, toxins, growth factors, hormones, cytokines, cells,
    and any combination thereof
56. The kit of any of claims 49-55, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker is sensitive to an
    enzyme, pH, temperature, light, shear stress, sonication, a chemical agent (e.g., dithiothreitol),
    or any combination thereof.
57. The kit of any of claims 49-56, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linkers are selected
    from the group consisting of hydrolyzable linkers, redox cleavable linkers, phosphate-based
    cleavable linkers, acid cleavable linkers, ester-based cleavable linkers, peptide-based cleavable
    linkers, photocleavable linkers, and any combinations thereof.
58. The kit of any of claims 49-57, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
    disulfide bond, a tetrazine-trans-cyclooctene group, a sulfhydryl group, a nitrobenzyl group, a
    nitoindoline group, a bromo hydroxycoumarin group, a bromo hydroxyquinoline group, a
    hydroxyphenacyl group, a dimethozybenzoin group, or any combinations thereof
59. The kit of any of claims 49-58, wherein the cleavable, non-hybridizable linker comprises a
    photocleavable linker.
60. The kit of claim 59, wherein the photocleavable linker is selected from the group consisting of
    molecules (i)-(xiv) and any combinations thereof, wherein the chemical structures of the
    molecules (i)-(xiv) are shown as follows:
                                                   122

    WO 2014/200767                                                               PCT/US2014/040731
                                                                           V)Ni
               J N                                                                               K
                   0XV                                                                ((N
       61., i   fcam5
                 Th       ,wh  ri   h    h tceval        ik  rc   m rssihoeue(i)
62. The kit of any of claims 49-61, further comprising a plurality of control probes, wherein each
     control probe in the plurality comprises:
         i. a control-binding molecule that specifically binds to one control molecule in the sample;
        ii. an identification control sequence that identifies the control-binding molecule; and
       iii. a cleavable linker between the control-binding molecule and the identification control
              sequence.
63. The kit of claim 62, wherein the control-binding molecule binds to a control protein.
64. The kit of claim 63, wherein the control protein is selected from the group consisting of
     housekeeping proteins, control IgG isotypes, mutant non-functional or non-binding proteins,
     and any combinations thereof
65.  The kit of any of claims 49-64, further comprising a reagent selected from the group consisting
     of a hybridization reagent, a purification reagent, an immobilization reagent, an imaging agent,
                                                   123

   WO 2014/200767                                                            PCT/US2014/040731
    a cell permeabilization agent, a blocking agent, a cleaving agent for the cleavable linker, and
    any combinations thereof.
66. The kit of any of claims 49-65, further comprising a device, wherein the device comprises a
    surface for immobilization of the capture probes upon coupling to the identification nucleotide
    sequences.
                                                 124

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
