                                        ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a mechanism for folding, sliding, and stacking reinforcing
steel product. The hinge mechanism is attached to a section of the reinforcing steel
mesh's cross or longitudinal wires and connected to another section of the steel
reinforcing mesh thereby allowing a plurality of sections to become one larger
section, and also allow these sections to be compacted to have a smaller overall
footprint if required for transport, handling or warehousing.

                 AUSTRALIA
              Patents Act 1990
ORGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
         INNOVATION PATENT
       COMPACTABLE STEEL
    REINFORCING PRODUCTS
 The invention is described in the following
                 statement

                                 Compactable Steel Reinforcing Product
   Field of the Invention
 5          This invention relates to concrete reinforcing products and more particularly to
   reinforcing steel products and their ability to be transported and handled in an easier way than
   presently available.
10 Background of the Invention
            When handing or loading steel reinforcing products the entity must have commercial
   vehicles large enough to carry standard sizes carried by the entities that provide these
   products. This is difficult because of the standard sizes produced by the manufactures of these
15 products are large in size usually over six meters in length. In some cases it is permitted to cut
   down these standard sizes but this isdifficult, time consuming, expensive &most suppliers of
   these goods due to ever growing OHS regulations are not permitted.
            Therefore there isa need to provide steel reinforcing products that can be easily
20 handled and transported without losing time, money &effectiveness of the product.
   Summary of the Invention
            According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided an ability to fold or slide
25 and or stack reinforcing material including:
            a reinforcing steel product:
            a folding or slide and or stacking device attached to said steel reinforcing product:
30
            Where in the standard or stock sized steel reinforcing product is rearranged in a
   suitable way and attached together also in a suitable method with afolding or stacking and or
   sliding mechanism that allows the steel reinforcing products to be folded or slide and or stacked
   together allowing the reinforcing product to be compacted for easy handling and transport.
35
            The securing mechanism isa hinge type and or stack and or slide mechanism in which
   the cross or longitudinal wires of one section of steel reinforcing product and secured with said
   mechanism to another section of steel reinforcing product to create one section of steel
   reinforcing that can either fold or stack and or slide together.
40
             Using the hinge or stack and or slide mechanism attached to the cross or longitudinal
   wires of the steel reinforcing product enables parts of steel reinforcing product to be attached to
   one another allowing many pieces to become one larger section, but then compacted to have a
   smaller overall footprint if required for transport, handling or warehousing.
45
                                                                                                        2

   Brief Description of Drawings
             Preferred embodiments of the invention will hereafter be described, by way of example
   only, with reference to drawings which:
 5
             Figures 1to 8 are respectively side views of the inventions mechanics according's to
   the first embodiment.
             Figure 10 is a top view of the preferred embodiment of the invention in it's uncompact
10 form.
             Figure 11 to 12 isa top view, side view &front view of a preferred embodiment of the
   mechanism as described.
15
             Figure 8 isa top view of the standard size reinforcing mesh according to the first
   embodiment.
             Figure 14 is a top perspective of a hinge mechanism shown in fig. 12 in conjunction
20 with reinforcing product.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
25
             Referring to figures 1- 8 there is shown respective side views of the inventions
   mechanics. The reinforcing mesh 1 includes a hinged type mechanism 2 made from a ridged
   material attached to cross wires 4 of the reinforcing mesh 1.The hinged type mechanism 2 is
   preferably solid and preferably made from polypropylene, but can be made from any other
30 suitable ridged or flexible material. The size and shape of the hinged type mechanism can be
   injection molded or laser cut from steel to perform a hinge type process.
             The hinged type mechanism 2 isparticularly suited for folding the reinforcing mesh 1
35 into smaller and again smaller sections. Ridges 3 in the hinge type mechanism 2 cradle the
   cross wires 4 allowing for free movement of reinforcing mesh sections back onto one another
   figures 1-8 to greatly reduce the overall size of the standard reinforcing mesh 1.
             As seen in figures 1-8 the reinforcing mesh 1 can be folded down for easier handling,
40 transporting or warehousing without the need to have many smaller individual sections while
   significantly smaller in area the reinforcing mesh product isstill overall the same dimensions
   when unfolded.
45
50
                                                                                                    3

  The claims defining the invention are as follows:
  1.        A reinforcing steel product;
5 2.        A compactable reinforcing steel product including a set of folding or sliding or stacking
  devices attached to said reinforcing steel products cross or longitudinal wires;
  3.        Afolding or sliding or stacking device according to claim 1wherein said device has the
  ability to fold, stack or slide reinforcing products into smaller versions od its self.
                                                                                                     4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
