040158-2393P2-WO
ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
[00132]    The disclosed technology relate to a device and system that include an outdoor
power equipment power unit or cart configured to releasably couple a number of different
interchangeable attachments or work implements to a common power unit, where some
attachments include and/or require operator presence control, while other attachments do
not include and/or require operator presence control. The outdoor power equipment
power unit includes a power transfer coupling member operatively coupled to the drive
shaft and configured to transfer rotational power to the associated attachment; and an
operator presence actuation member operatively coupled to the operator presence control
member, the operator presence actuation member configured to rotate in response to user
actuation of the operator presence control member.

  WO 2015/123357                                                        PCT/US2015/015504
     POWER EQUIPMENT DEVICE WITH REMOVABLE ATTACHMENTS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial
No. 61/938,581, filed February 11, 2015, and entitled "POWER EQUIPMENT
DEVICE WITH REMOVABLE ATTACHMENTS", which is herein incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      The disclosed technology relates generally to outdoor power equipment, and,
more particularly, to outdoor power equipment that includes a power unit or base cart that
is configured to releasably couple to a variety of outdoor power equipment attachments.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      Traditional outdoor power equipment typically has been configured as a
single-purpose machine, for example, a lawn mower, a snow thrower, a blower, a
pressure washer, power generator, etc. with a dedicated engine (e.g., a conventional
internal combustion engine). While users might be interested in owning and making use
of multiple pieces of power equipment, often cost and space constraints prevent users
from owning a larger number of single-purpose outdoor power equipment machines.
[0004]      While efforts have been made to provide a device having a single power unit
and multiple interchangeable attachments, conventional devices lack versatility in the
number of work implements that can be attached to the power unit, as well as suffering
from difficulty in attaching and detaching the various work implements to the power unit.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]      Aspects of the disclosed technology relate to a device and system that include
an outdoor power equipment power unit or cart configured to releasably couple a number

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
of different interchangeable attachments or work implements to a common power source
in a manner that is secure, safe, easy and straightforward for the user.
[0006]      One aspect of the disclosed technology relates to an outdoor power equipment
power unit configured to selectively power an associated attachment releasably coupled
to the power unit. The power unit includes a frame; a handle operatively coupled to the
frame; user controls operatively coupled to the handle, the user controls including an
operator presence control member; a power supply operatively coupled to the frame; a
generally horizontal drive shaft operatively coupled to the engine; a power transfer
coupling member operatively coupled to the drive shaft and configured to transfer
rotational power to the associated attachment; and an operator presence actuation
member operatively coupled to the operator presence control member, the operator
presence actuation member configured to rotate in response to user actuation of the
operator presence control member.
[0007]      Another aspect of the disclosed technology relates to an outdoor power
equipment attachment configured to be releasably coupled to an associated power unit.
The outdoor power equipment attachment includes a housing and a back attachment plate
associated with the housing; a driven working member disposed at least partially within
the housing; a power transfer coupling member configured to engage a power transfer
coupling member associated with the power unit, the power transfer coupling member
being operatively coupled to the driven working member to selectively transfer motive
power to the driven working member; and an operator presence actuation member
configured to engage an operator presence actuation member associated with the power
unit, the operator presence actuation member configured to be rotatably actuated by the
operator presence actuation member associated with the power unit; and wherein the
operator presence actuation member is operatively coupled a drive engagement member
configured to selectively engage the power transfer coupling member to the driven
working member to drive the working member.
[0008]      Another aspect of the disclosed technology relates to a power transfer
coupling device configured to couple a base power unit to an outdoor power equipment
accessory. The power transfer coupling device includes a base; a plurality of engagement
teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth having a lower
                                               2

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and a top portion
have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an angle.
[0009]      According to one feature, the angle formed by the top walls is greater at the
outer wall than at the inner wall.
[0010]      According to one feature, the angle formed by the top walls is approximately
the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
[0011]      Another aspect of the disclosed technology relates to a dog clutch assembly
configured to rotationally transfer power from a base power unit to an outdoor power
equipment attachment releasably coupled to the base power unit. The dog clutch
assembly includes a first member, the first member comprising a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and
a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an
angle; and a second member, the second member comprising a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and
a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an
angle; wherein the first member and second member are configured to engage one
another by way of the engagement teeth associated with the first member and the second
member.
[0012]      Another aspect of the disclosed technology relates to a power transfer
coupling device configured to couple a base power unit to an outdoor power equipment
accessory. The power transfer coupling device includes a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side surface, an outer surface, and an inner
surface, and a top portion have a pair of top surfaces that extend from the side surfaces
and meet at an angle.
[0013]      These and further features of the disclosed technology will be apparent with
reference to the following description and attached drawings. In the description and
drawings, particular embodiments or aspects of the disclosed technology have been
disclosed in detail as being indicative of some of the ways in which the principles of the
                                               3

  WO 2015/123357                                                            PCT/US2015/015504
disclosed technology may be employed, but it is understood that the disclosed technology
is not limited correspondingly in scope. Rather, the disclosed technology includes all
changes, modifications and equivalents coming within the spirit and terms of the claims
appended thereto.
[0014]      Features that are described and/or illustrated with respect to one embodiment
may be used in the same way or in a similar way in one or more other embodiments
and/or in combination with or instead of the features of the other embodiments.
[0015]      It should be emphasized that the term "comprises/comprising" when used in
this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features,
integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016]      These and other features of the disclosed technology, and their advantages, are
illustrated specifically in embodiments of the disclosed technology now to be described,
by way of example, with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings, in
which:
[0017]      FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic illustration of a an outdoor power equipment system
with a power unit connected to a lawn mower attachment in accordance with one aspect
of the disclosed technology;
[0018]      FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a an outdoor power equipment system with a
power unit connected to a lawn mower attachment in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0019]      FIG. 3 is a front perspective view of a power unit in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0020]      FIG. 4 is a rear perspective view of a power unit in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0021]      FIG. 5 is a front view of a portion of a power unit in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0022]      FIG 6 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of a power unit in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
                                               4

 WO 2015/123357                                                         PCT/US2015/015504
[0023]      FIG. 7 is a front view of a power unit in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0024]      FIG. 8 is a side view of a power unit in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0025]      FIG. 9 is a rear view of a power unit in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0026]      FIG. 10 is a bottom perspective view of a power unit in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0027]      FIG. 11 is a rear perspective view of an outdoor power equipment attachment
configured as a snow thrower in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0028]       FIG. 12 is a front perspective view of an outdoor power equipment
attachment configured as a snow thrower in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed
technology;
[0029]      FIGS. 13 - 16 are diagrammatic illustrations showing a methodology for
attaching a power unit to an attachment in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed
technology;
[0030]      FIG. 17 is a perspective view of a portion of a latching mechanism in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0031]      FIG. 18 is a perspective view of a portion of a latching mechanism in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0032]      FIG. 19 is a bottom view of a portion of a latching mechanism in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0033]      FIG. 20 is an exploded view of a kickstand assembly in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0034]      FIG. 21 is a top view of a power transfer coupling member in accordance with
one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0035]      FIG. 22 is a top perspective view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0036]      FIG. 23 is a side perspective view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
                                               5

 WO 2015/123357                                                         PCT/US2015/015504
[0037]     FIG. 24 is a bottom perspective view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0038]     FIG. 25 is a side view of a power transfer coupling member in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0039]     FIG. 26 is a top view of a power transfer coupling member in accordance with
one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0040]     FIG. 27 is a top perspective view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0041]     FIG. 28 is a bottom view of a power transfer coupling member in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0042]     FIG. 29 is a side view of a power transfer coupling member in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0043]     FIG. 30 is a side perspective view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0044]     FIG. 31 is an exploded view of a power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0045]     FIG. 32 is a diagrammatic illustration on a power transfer coupling device in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0046]     FIG. 33 is a diagrammatic illustration on a power transfer coupling device in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0047]     FIG. 34 is a cross section of a power transfer coupling device in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0048]     FIG. 35 is a cross section of a power transfer coupling device in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0049]     FIG. 36 is a cross section of a power transfer coupling device in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0050]     FIG. 37 is a cross section of a power transfer coupling device in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0051]     FIG. 38 is a diagrammatic illustration of a portion of a power transfer
coupling member in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
                                             6

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
[0052]      FIG. 39 is a diagrammatic illustration of a pair of engagement teeth of a
power transfer coupling device in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed
technology;
[0053]      FIGS. 40 - 42 are views of an air-cooled power transfer coupling member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0054]      FIG. 43 is a top view of an operator presence actuation member in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0055]      FIG. 44 is a side view of an operator presence actuation member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0056]      FIG. 45 is a bottom perspective view of an operator presence actuation
member in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0057]      FIG. 46 is a top perspective view of an operator presence actuation member in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0058]      FIG. 47 is a diagrammatic illustration of a portion of a power unit having an
operator presence actuation member in a non-actuated state in accordance with one aspect
of the disclosed technology;
[0059]      FIG. 48 is a diagrammatic illustration of a portion of a power unit having an
operator presence actuation member in an actuated state in accordance with one aspect of
the disclosed technology;
[0060]      FIG. 49 is a diagrammatic illustration of a portion of a snow thrower
attachment in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0061]      FIG. 50 is a cross-sectional view of a snow thrower attachment in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0062]      FIG. 51 is a diagrammatic illustration of a snow thrower attachment and a
portion of a power unit in accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0063]      FIG. 52 is a perspective view of a portion of a power unit in accordance with
one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0064]      FIG. 53 is a front view of a portion of a power unit in accordance with one
aspect of the disclosed technology;
                                               7

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
[0065]      FIG. 54 is a perspective view of a an outdoor power equipment system with a
power unit connected to a snow thrower attachment in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0066]      FIG. 55 is a rear perspective view of a snow thrower attachment in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0067]      FIG. 56 is a perspective view of a an outdoor power equipment system with a
power unit connected to a lawn mower attachment in accordance with one aspect of the
disclosed technology;
[0068]      FIG. 57 is a rear perspective view of a lawn mower attachment in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0069]      FIG. 58 is a perspective view of a an outdoor power equipment system with a
power unit connected to a lawn mower attachment including a bagging attachment in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0070]      FIG. 59 is a perspective view of a an outdoor power equipment system with a
power unit connected to a pressure washer attachment in accordance with one aspect of
the disclosed technology;
[0071]      FIG. 60 is a rear perspective view of a pressure washer attachment in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0072]      FIG. 61 is a diagrammatic illustration of a an outdoor power equipment
system with a power unit connected to a blower attachment in accordance with one aspect
of the disclosed technology;
[0073]      FIG. 62 is a rear perspective view of a blower attachment in accordance with
one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0074]      FIG. 63 is a diagrammatic illustration of a an outdoor power equipment
system with a power unit connected to an electric generator attachment in accordance
with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0075]      FIG. 64 is a sectional view of a portion of a drive assembly for a snow
thrower attachment is accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0076]      FIG. 65 is a sectional view of a portion of a drive assembly for a power unit in
accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
                                              8

  WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
[0077]       FIG. 66 is a sectional view of a portion of a drive assembly for a blower
attachment is accordance with one aspect of the disclosed technology;
[0078]       It should be noted that all the drawings are diagrammatic and not drawn to
scale. Relative dimensions and proportions of parts of these figures have been shown
exaggerated or reduced in size for the sake of clarity and convenience in the drawings.
The same reference numbers are generally used to refer to corresponding or similar
features in the different embodiments. Accordingly, the drawing(s) and description are to
be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0079]       Aspects of the disclosed technology recognize the need for a versatile outdoor
power equipment system in which a common power unit can be used to releasably attach
to a variety of work implements or attachments, where some attachments include and/or
require operator presence control, while other attachments do not include and/or require
operator presence control. The disclosed technology is directed to a system in which a
power unit or cart is configured to include a drive mechanism for driving attachments that
make use of operator presence control (OPC) and/or where OPC is required by industry
standards, as well as attachments that do not make use of OPC and/or where OPC is not
required by industry standards.
[0080]       Aspects of the disclosed technology also recognize the need for a system that
is safe, easy to use and intuitive for the user. Aspects of the disclosed technology further
recognize the need for a system in which alignment and engagement between the power
unit and the attachment is straightforward and reliable.
[0081]       As is described more fully below, one embodiment of the disclosed
technology makes use of power transfer coupling device in the form of a dog clutch
assembly. Many dog clutch designs focus on engagement while the dog clutch is
moving. Dog clutch designs for engagement while the dog clutch is moving take certain
design considerations into account. In a preferred application of the disclosed
technology, the disclosed dog clutch engagement mechanism is configured for
engagement when the dog clutch is stationary. The disclosed design also takes into
                                                9

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
account that engagement must take place with a limited amount of force between the
power unit and the outdoor power equipment attachment or accessory.
[0082]       Referring now to FIGS. 1-12, an outdoor power equipment system 10 is
provided. The system 10 includes a power unit (also referred to as a base unit, a base cart
or a power cart) 12 and one or more outdoor power equipment attachments or accessories
14 releasably coupled to the power unit 12. The power unit 12 includes a frame, housing
or other suitable support structure (identified generally as 16). The power unit 12
includes a power supply 18 (e.g., an engine, such as an internal combustion engine)
operatively coupled to or otherwise supported by the frame 16. In an embodiment where
the power supply is an engine, the engine can be configured to be of a similar size and
power output as engines typically used in lawn mower and/or snow thrower applications.
For example, the engine could be sized between approximate 180cc and 250cc. Of
course, it will be appreciated that other suitable engines can be employed without
departing from the scope of the disclosed technology. In accordance with one exemplary
embodiment in which the associated outdoor power equipment attachments include warm
weather attachments, such as a lawn mower, and cold weather attachments, such as a
snow thrower, the engine will be configured to operate in both climates suitably for
powering the respective attachments.
[0083]       While the power unit 12 is described in conjunction with an engine, it will be
appreciated that other suitable power supply technologies can be employed without
departing from the scope of the disclosed technology. For example, the power unit can
include a power supply taking the form of an electric motor operatively coupled to a
battery or another suitable source of stored energy. In another embodiment, the power
supply may take the form of an electric generator configured to supply motive force or
power to an attachment coupled to the power unit. The power unit can include an electric
and/or hybrid prime mover without departing from the scope of the present technology.
[0084]       The engine 18 or other suitable prime mover is mounted on or otherwise
supported by a frame 16. In the operating position which is shown, for example, in FIGS.
1-5, the frame is configured to support the engine 18 in an orientation approximately
parallel to the ground when the power unit is in its normal operating position. Wheels 20
are rotatably mounted or otherwise operatively coupled to the frame, and the wheels are
                                               10

  WO 2015/123357                                                         PCT/US2015/015504
used for moving the power unit. In one embodiment, the power unit 12 includes driven
wheels operatively coupled to a drive system such that the power unit is self-propelled in
response to user control. Alternatively, the power unit can be implemented without a
self-propelled feature. The wheels can be of a common size and tread design selected to
accommodate the numerous configurations of accessory used in connection with the
power unit. It will be appreciated that the wheels can take on a number of suitable
configurations without departing from the scope of the disclosed technology.
[0085]       The engine can be configured as a two-stroke or four-stroke internal
combustion engine of the type generally known in the art and suitable for use in powering
lawn and garden equipment. In the disclosed embodiment, the engine is configured for
operation in warm conditions and cold conditions (e.g., an all-season or all-weather
engine). In a preferred embodiment, the engine is operatively coupled to a generally
horizontal drive shaft for use in powering the associated outdoor power equipment
attachments through a suitable coupling member also referred to as a power takeoff
coupling member or a power transfer coupling member (identified generally as 22) in the
manner described more fully below.
[0086]       The power unit 12 includes a handle portion 24 equipped with suitable user
controls (identified generally as 26), including an operator presence control member 28
(e.g., a bail, lever or other appropriate control mechanism). In one embodiment, the
handle portion 24 is configured to include a single substantially continuous handle
member that supports plurality of user controls. Alternatively, as shown in FIG. 2, the
handle portion 26 can be configured to include separate handle members 30, 32 with one
or both of the handle members having associated user controls 26. In the embodiment
illustrated in FIG. 2, the handle portion include separate handle members 30, 32 with one
of the handle members 30 including an operator presence control member 28 in the form
of a lever pivotally connected to the first handle member 30. As is described more fully
below, the operator presence control member can be selectively activated by the user to
activate and deactivate an operator presence actuation member.
[0087]       In accordance with one embodiment, the power unit 12 can include a
kickstand 34 or other suitable support to support the power unit frame or housing
approximately parallel to the ground when the power unit 12 is not coupled to an
                                               11

 WO 2015/123357                                                              PCT/US2015/015504
attachment or accessory. As is described below in more detail, the kickstand 34 can be
used to actuate a latching mechanism when an attachment or accessory is connected
and/or disconnected to the power unit.
[0088]      The user controls 26 can include controls for turning the engine on and off,
operating the rotation of the wheels, the braking of the wheels, and/or other suitable user
control functions. In one embodiment, the user applies manual forward force to the
handle portion to move the power unit. In another embodiment, the engine is configured
to power the wheels. For example, the engine can be connected to a wheel transmission
for rotating the wheels at various speeds, and a wheel speed control on the control panel
can be used for this purpose. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2, the power unit 12
includes a wheel speed control lever 36 that controls the forward drive speed of the
wheels on the power unit. In an alternative embodiment, the wheel control can provide a
forward, neutral and possibly backward movement of the wheels. The engine can be
started by either a pull start or an electric starter connected to a battery, as is known in the
art.
[0089]      In a preferred embodiment, the engine is operatively coupled to a drive shaft
and configured to supply rotational movement to the drive shaft oriented in the horizontal
direction. As is discussed more fully below, the drive shaft is attached to a coupling
device (also referred to as a power transfer coupling device or member).
[0090]      As is discussed more fully below, the power unit 12 is configured to include
an engagement and alignment attachment mechanism (indicated generally as 40) for
quickly and easily attaching the power unit 12 to a selected outdoor power equipment
accessory 14. The attachment or accessory 14 includes an engagement and alignment
mechanism 42 configured to cooperate with the engagement and alignment mechanism
40 associated with the power unit 12 such that the power unit can be quickly and easily
coupled or releasably coupled to the accessory. It will be appreciated that the attachment
and alignment mechanisms associated with the power unit 12 and the attachment or
accessory 14 can take on a variety of forms and configurations without departing from
the scope of the disclosed technology. For example, in accordance one exemplary
embodiment, the power unit 12 can include a horizontal rod or bar oriented transversely
across the front of the unit or a portion of the front of the unit, while the associated
                                                 12

 WO 2015/123357                                                            PCT/US2015/015504
attachment can include one or more hook elements or recesses positioned and configured
to receive the rod when the power unit is coupled to the outdoor power equipment
accessory.
[0091]      FIG. 5 and FIG. 1 illustrate an exemplary embodiment in which the power
unit 12 includes a horizontally-oriented rod (also referred to as a horizontal engagement
member or bar) 40 positioned above and extending forward of the substantially flat front
surface of the front attachment plate 44. The rod 40 is centrally positioned relative to the
lateral dimension of the power unit 12. FIG. 11 illustrates an exemplary snow thrower
attachment 14 that includes a corresponding engagement member 42 sized and positioned
to receive the horizontal rod 40 coupled to the power unit 12. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, the engagement member 42 coupled to the attachment includes
or otherwise defines a recess sized to receive the horizontal engagement member coupled
to the power unit.
[0092]      Referring now to FIGS. 13-16, in operation, the user will move the power unit
in proximity to the desired outdoor power equipment attachment (e.g., a snow thrower
attachment or a lawnmower attachment). The user will engage or otherwise couple the
power unit to the accessory by lowering the front end of the power unit such that the
horizontal engagement member or bar 40 is vertically lower than the corresponding
engagement member or hook or recess 42 on the accessory (the control/handle portion
will raise up relative to the user), as illustrated in FIG. 13.
[0093]      The user then positions the engagement and alignment member on the power
unit below the engagement and alignment member on the attachment and rocks or
otherwise pivots the front end of the cart up by pushing down on the control/handle
portion, as illustrated in FIGS 14-16. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the
power unit includes one or more latching members (e.g., disposed near the bottom of the
front portion of the power unit). The outdoor power equipment accessory or attachment
includes slots, catches, strikers or other suitable receivers or latching members configured
to receive the latching members when the power unit is coupled to the accessory.
[0094]      As described more fully below, the power unit can be configured to include a
locking member configured to be operated by the user to lock the latching members in
place upon receipt of the latching members into the receiving slots or catches on the
                                                 13

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
attachment. The latching members can be configured as pawls or any other suitable hook
or latching member.
[0095]       It will be appreciated that this system and method of engagement allows for
reliable and intuitive alignment and engagement between the power unit and the
associated attachment, as well as a secure interface between the power unit and the
attachment.
[0096]       Turning now to FIGS. 17-20, an exemplary latching mechanism (identified
generally as 45) will be described. In the illustrated embodiment, the latching
mechanism 45 includes a rotatable support (e.g., a kickstand) 34 rotatably coupled to a
rear portion of the power unit. The kickstand 34 can be rotated between an upward
position in which the kickstand is in a substantially horizontal orientation and a
downward position in which the kickstand is in a generally vertical orientation (e.g., at an
angle of about 10 degrees to about 20 degrees to a vertical direction). In the downward
position, the kickstand 34 serves to balance and support the power unit so that the power
unit does not tip forward or backward when the power unit is not attached to an
associated attachment or accessory.
[0097]       The kickstand 34 is connected to a cable 46 or other suitable force transfer
member. The cable 46 is connected to one or more latch members 47 positioned adjacent
a front portion of the power unit. In the illustrated embodiment, the front attachment
plate defines a pair of openings 48 adjacent a lower portion of the front attachment plate
44. The latch members 47 or hooks are positioned within those openings 48. In the
illustrated embodiment, the cable 46 is coupled to a rod 49, and the rod 49 is coupled to a
pair of latch members 47 or hooks. The rod 49 is rotatable between a latched positioned
in which the rod 49 is rotated forward such that the latch members 47 are in an engaging
or latching position, and a released position in which it is rotated backward. As is shown
in FIG. 17, the rod 49 is spring-biased such that the latch members 47 default to a
forwardly-rotated engaging or latching position.
[0098]       In the illustrated embodiment, the associated attachment includes a pair of
strikers 51 or catches extending from a back attachment plate of the attachment. The
strikers 51 are sized and positioned such that the latch members 47 engage the strikers
when the attachment is properly positioned in front of and abutting the power unit. The
                                                14

 WO 2015/123357                                                             PCT/US2015/015504
openings 48 in the front attachment plate 44 are sized and positioned to receive the
strikers 51 when the attachment is attached to the power unit.
[0099]       In the illustrated embodiment, the power unit further includes a switch 53
(e.g., a plunger switch) extending from the front attachment plate of the power unit.
When an attachment is properly positioned and attached to the power unit, the attachment
depresses or otherwise activates the switch 53 such that the power supply (e.g., an
engine) can be started or otherwise activated.
[00100]      When the user is ready to detach the attachment from the power unit, the
kickstand 34 can be rotated into its upward position. Rotation of the kickstand 34 into its
upward position pulls on the cable 46, which, in turn, rotates the rod 49 and latch
members 47 in the released positioned, whereby they release the strikers 51. The user
can tip the front end of the power unit slightly down to detach the power unit from the
attachment.
[00101]      Turning now to FIGS. 21-25, as is discussed above, the power unit 12
includes a power transfer coupling device (also referred to as a power takeoff coupling
device, a power transfer device or simply as a dog clutch) 22. In accordance with one
exemplary embodiment, the power transfer coupling device 22 includes a base 50, such
as a round base, and a plurality of teeth or engagement members (also referred to as
engagement teeth) 52 extending up or away from the base. In accordance with one
exemplary embodiment, the teeth 52 each include a lower portion 54 having a pair of
sidewalls 56, an outer wall 58, and an inner wall 60 extending up or away from the base
50 and a top portion including a pair of top walls or angled walls 62 that extend from the
sidewalls 56 and meet forming an angle.
[00102]      In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the engagement teeth include
substantially parallel sidewalls with a triangular top portion extending from the sidewalls
and forming an angle. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the angle varies
across the dimension of the tooth. For example, in accordance with one exemplary
embodiment, the angle formed by top walls of the triangular top portion is greater at the
outer edge or wall of the tooth than it is at the inner edge or wall of the tooth. In
accordance with another exemplary embodiment, the angle formed by the top walls is
approximately the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
                                                15

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
[00103]     In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the top walls of the triangular
top portion of each engagement tooth form an angle of approximately 50 degrees to
approximately 90 degrees. In another exemplary embodiment, the top walls of the
triangular top portion of each engagement tooth form an angle of approximately 60
degrees to approximately 80 degrees. In accordance with another exemplary
embodiment, the top walls of the triangular top portion of each engagement tooth form an
angle of about 45 degrees to about 75 degrees. In yet another exemplary embodiment,
the top walls of the triangular top portion of each engagement tooth form a substantially
constant angle from the outer wall to the inner wall (e.g., an angle of approximately 90
degrees). It will be appreciated that the triangular top portion of the engagement teeth
can take on other angles and angular ranges without departing from the scope of the
disclosed technology.
[00104]     It will be appreciated that the base can take on any dimensions suitable for a
particular application. For example, in accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the
base of the power transfer coupling member has a diameter of approximately 3 inches to
approximately 5 inches. In accordance with another embodiment, the base of the power
transfer coupling member has a diameter of about 4 inches to about 6 inches. It will be
appreciated that the power transfer coupling member can be made of any suitable
material, such as nylon or aluminum. Preferably, the power transfer coupling member is
a solid piece. Alternatively, the power transfer coupling member could be hollow or
semi-solid.
[00105]     In accordance with one embodiment, the power transfer coupling member
associated with the power unit can be made of a different material than the power transfer
coupling member associated with the attachment or accessory (e.g., the power transfer
coupling member associated with the power unit can be made of aluminum, powdered
metal or another suitable metal, while the power transfer coupling member associated
with the attachment can be made of nylon or another suitable non-metal material). In an
alternative embodiment, the first and second power transfer coupling members can be
made of the same material.
[00106]     Turning now to FIGS. 26-31, an alternative exemplary embodiment of a
power transfer coupling member 23 (e.g., a power transfer coupling member associated
                                               16

  WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
with an attachment or accessory) is illustrated. In one exemplary embodiment, the power
transfer coupling assembly can include a first power transfer coupling member (e.g., the
power transfer coupling member 22 illustrated in FIGS. 21-25) and a second power
transfer coupling member 23 (e.g., the power transfer coupling member illustrated in
FIGS. 26-3 1). In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the power transfer coupling
member 23 can include one or more vibration damping members (also referred to as
bumpers or noise dampers) 55 disposed between the first and second power transfer
coupling members. It will be appreciated that the provision of vibration damping
members 55 serves to reduce vibration in the system as well as associated noise otherwise
generated by the power transfer coupling member. FIGS. 26-31 illustrate an exemplary
embodiment in which the power transfer coupling member 23 associated with the
attachment or accessory includes a plurality of bumpers or vibration damping members
55. In the illustrated embodiment a plurality of the engagement teeth associated with the
power transfer coupling member 23 include or otherwise define recesses 57 that receive
vibration damping members 55. The vibration damping members 55 can be made of any
suitable material, including, but not limited to nylon and rubber. It will be appreciated
that one or both of the power transfer coupling members can include one or more
vibration damping members without departing from the scope of the disclosed
technology.
[00107]     It will be appreciated that aspects of the disclosed technology recognize and
solve the problem of engaging a power unit to an attachment through a power transfer
coupling member that is stationary during engagement. In this environment, the device
has only the weight of the attachment being coupled to the power unit to provide an
opposing force to ensure engagement of the power transfer coupling member with its
mating power transfer coupling member associated with the attachment.
[00108]     Further, it will be appreciated that the configuration of the engagement teeth,
including the triangular top portion of the engagement teeth and the sidewall geometry of
the engagement teeth, allows for easy and reliable mating between the power takeoff
coupling member associated with the power unit and the power takeoff coupling member
associated with the attachment, even if the engagement teeth are somewhat misaligned
upon coupling of the attachment to the power unit.
                                               17

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
[00109]     In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the power transfer coupling
members associated with the power unit and the attachment are substantially the same or
identical. It will be appreciated, however, that the respective power transfer coupling
members associated with the power unit and the attachment do not have to be the same.
For example, the power transfer coupling member associated with the power unit can
include engagement teeth of a different size and/or geometry in comparison to the
engagement teeth of the power transfer coupling unit associated with the attachment.
[00110]     As another example, the power transfer coupling member associated with the
power unit could be configured to have 12 engagement teeth positioned about the
perimeter of the base at approximately every 30 degrees, while the power transfer
coupling member associated with the attachment could have 6 engagement teeth
positioned about the perimeter of the base at an angle of approximately 60 degrees
between respective engagement teeth. Also, while the power transfer coupling member is
illustrated with substantially constant spacing between adjacent engagement teeth, it will
be appreciated that the power transfer coupling unit may include variable spacing
between adjacent engagement teeth without departing from the scope of the disclosed
technology.
[00111]         It will be appreciated that the configuration of the power transfer coupling
member provides easy and reliable engagement of the two halves of the power transfer
coupling member using the angled attachment methodology between the power unit and
the attachment described more fully above with reference to FIGS. 13-16.
[00112]     FIGS. 32-37 illustrate exemplary embodiments in which the power transfer
coupling member associated with the power unit engages the power transfer coupling
member associated with the attachment. FIG. 34 and FIG. 36 show an exemplary
situation in which the two halves of the power transfer coupling device or dog clutch are
completely aligned axially, such that the engagement teeth engage each other on the outer
edge of the tooth sidewalls (near the outer diameter of the power transfer coupling
device). It will be appreciated that this provides a preferred engagement at the outer
portion of each tooth since the tooth is wider near the outer diameter of the power transfer
coupling member, and the required force to transmit a given torque is less at this outer
location.
                                               18

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
[00113]     The design of the power transfer coupling member addresses the problem of
misalignment of the two halves of the power transfer coupling member or dog clutch. As
shown in FIG. 35, even with 0.050 inches of misalignment upon coupling the power unit
to the attachment, the teeth still engage on or adjacent the outer edge, to provide preferred
torque transfer.
[00114]     As noted above, the disclosed technology recognizes and solves the problem
associated with reliably and smoothly coupling a power unit to an attachment where
misalignment of the two halves of the power transfer coupling device can occur
frequently. In the case of such misalignment between the two halves of the power
transfer coupling member, engagement could occur near the inner portion of the
engagement teeth (close to the inner diameter or inner wall of the engagement teeth),
where the teeth are thinner and where greater force is required to transmit a given torque.
This scenario is illustrated in FIG. 37.
[00115]     The power transfer coupling device design of the disclosed technology
recognizes and solves this problem to achieve a consistent engagement area. The power
transfer coupling design of the disclosed technology accomplishes this with the geometry
of the engagement teeth. As can be seen in FIG. 38, the sidewalls of the engagement
teeth are positioned and oriented at angles that do not converge on the rotational center of
the power transfer coupling device. Rather, the engagement teeth are configured such
that the tooth sidewalls are angled to meet at a point between the engagement tooth and
the center of the power transfer coupling device. This configuration and offset allows the
teeth to engage consistently (as described above) up to a predetermined maximum
expected misalignment of the two halves of the power transfer coupling device.
[00116]     Once the attachment has been coupled to the power unit, and the respective
halves of the power transfer coupling member have engaged one another, the power unit
will rotationally drive the first part of the power transfer coupling member associated
with the power unit, which, in turn, will cause rotation of the second part of the power
transfer coupling member associated with the attachment. In addition to providing
reliable engagement, even in the case of misalignment, it will be appreciated that the
engagement teeth geometry has been designed to minimize forces that would act to push
apart the two halves of the power transfer coupling member while the power transfer
                                                19

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
coupling member is being driven. For example, in accordance with one exemplary
embodiment, each engagement tooth can be thought of as having a top third, a middle
third, and a bottom third. When the engagement teeth of the respective parts of the power
transfer coupling member are engaged, the teeth are designed such that the middle
portions of adjacent engagement teeth mesh together and align in a manner that resists
pushing apart while the power unit is driving the attachment (see FIG. 39).
[00117]     It will be appreciated that the power transfer coupling member may have a
larger or smaller number of teeth than what is illustrated in FIGS. 21-25 and FIGS. 26-31.
For example, each or one part of the power transfer coupling member may have between
6 engagement teeth and 12 engagement teeth. Alternatively, the power transfer coupling
device can be configured such that each part or at least one part of the power transfer
coupling device has greater than 12 engagement teeth. Alternatively, the power transfer
coupling device can be configured such that each part or at least one part of the power
transfer coupling device has less than 6 engagement teeth.
[00118]     It will be appreciated that the power transfer coupling member or dog clutch
can include other features or geometries depending upon a particular application. For
example, in accordance with one application, the power transfer coupling member can be
configured to include integral cooling elements, such as the fins or fan blades shown in
FIGS. 40-42. This configuration can provide cooling through airflow while the power
transfer coupling device rotates.
[00119]     Referring now to FIGS. 43-46, in addition to a power transfer coupling device
22 (described above), the power unit 12 is equipped with an operator presence actuation
member (also referred to simply as an attachment actuation member) 80. In accordance
with one embodiment, the operator presence actuation member 80 is configured to rotate
in response to user actuation of an operator presence control (e.g., lever 28 or a bail)
disposed on the handle portion of the power unit. The operator presence control on the
handle is coupled to the operator presence actuation member 80 such that user operation
of the operator presence control causes rotational motion of the operator presence
actuation member 80. This rotational motion, in turn, is transferred across the interface
between the power unit and the attachment such that power from the power unit is
operatively coupled and transferred to the working member of the given attachment.
                                              20

 WO 2015/123357                                                            PCT/US2015/015504
While the operator presence actuation member 80 is being described in connection with a
rotational actuation member, it will be appreciated that the operator presence actuation
member can be configured as a slider or other translational member without departing
from the scope of the disclosed technology.
[00120]      In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the operator presence
actuation member 80 takes the form of a rotatable member having at least a pair of
protrusions or lugs 82, while the mating operator presence actuation member associated
with the attachment (identified generally as 90) includes at least a pair of recesses or slots
positioned and configured to receive the protrusions or lugs 82 from the operator
presence actuation member 80 associated with the power unit. While the operator
presence actuation member 80 is shown having a pair of protrusions or lugs 82, it will be
appreciated that other geometries and configurations may be employed without departing
from the scope of the disclosed technology. For example, the operator presence actuation
member can be configured to include three protrusions or lugs, four protrusions or lugs,
or another set of engagement features without departing from the scope of the disclosed
technology. Alternatively, the operator presence actuation member associate with the
attachment can be configured to include protrusions or lugs, while the operator presence
actuation member associate with the power unit can be configured to include recesses or
slots positioned and configured to receive the protrusions or lugs from the operator
presence actuation member associated with the attachment.
[00121]          In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, movement of the operator
presence control by the operator (e.g., movement of the lever 28) operates an actuation
cable or other transfer device coupled to the lever, the distal end of the actuation cable
being attached to the operator presence actuation member, such that movement of the
bale by the operator causes rotational movement of the operator presence actuation
member associated with the power unit. FIG. 47 and FIG. 48 illustrate a portion of an
exemplary assembly, where a front portion of the power unit is removed to show rotation
of a portion of the operator presence actuation member 80 associated with the power unit.
FIG. 47 shows a situation where the operator presence control is not actuated by the
operator, and the operator presence actuation member 80 is in its default state (indicating
that an OPC-enabled attachment should not be actuated. In contrast, FIG. 48 shows a
                                             21

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
situation in which the operator has engaged the operator control (e.g., by squeezing or
otherwise moving the lever 28), which, in turn, causes rotation of the operator presence
actuation member 80, actuating the OPC-enabled attachment coupled to the power unit.
In the illustrated embodiment, the operator presence actuation member is biased in the
non-actuated position, for example, using a spring or other biasing member.
[00122]      This rotational movement of the operator presence actuation member
80associated with the power unit 12 is transferred across the interface to the operator
presence actuation member 90 associated with the attachment 14, which, in turn, causes
the power transfer coupling member associated with the attachment to be in operative
engagement with the working member 92 associated with the attachment. It will be
appreciated that a variety of mechanisms can be used to place the power transfer coupling
member associated with an attachment in operative engagement with the working
member 92 associate with the particular attachment. For example, the embodiment of
FIGS. 49-51 illustrates an exemplary snow thrower attachment.
[00123]      In the exemplary snow thrower embodiment, the power transfer coupling
member is coupled to a first pulley 94 within the snow thrower attachment. The snow
thrower attachment also includes a second pulley 96 (e.g., a pulley of a larger diameter)
with a belt 98 being operatively coupled to both pulleys. When the operator presence
actuation member 90 is not in the actuated position, the belt 98 between the two pulleys
is not tensioned, and the belt 98 is kept off or otherwise does not engage in a manner to
cause rotation of the first pulley 94, while the pulley associated with the power transfer
coupling member is being rotated. Upon actuation of the operator presence actuation
member 90, the belt 98 is tensioned, for example using a tensioner pulley 80 such that the
motive power from the first pulley 94 is transferred to the second pulley 96 to operate the
working member 92, in this case, augers and an impeller associated with an exemplary
two-stage snow thrower attachment. It will be appreciate that other mechanisms can be
employed to place the power transfer coupling member associated with an attachment in
operative engagement with the working member 92 associate with the particular
attachment without departing from the scope of the disclosed technology.
[00124]      In accordance with one preferred embodiment, the power unit is operated such
that the power takeoff associated with the power unit is operated at a constant speed.
                                               22

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
Stated differently, the engine or other source of motive power rotates the drive shaft of
the power unit at a constant speed, and any necessary gear reduction or speed
modification associated with the needs of a particular attachment is accomplished on the
attachment itself. For example in the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 49, this is done
using pulleys of different sizes such that the speed at which the drive shaft is rotated is
slowed down in accordance with the needs of a snow thrower application. For example,
the drive shaft associated with the power unit may be rotated at approximately 3600
revolutions per minute, while a typical snow thrower application may require a drive
speed of approximately 1,150 revolutions per minute. In another exemplary embodiment,
necessary gear reduction can be accomplished using a suitable gear set, for example,
gears disposed within a gear box associated with the attachment.
[00125]     It will be appreciated that some outdoor power equipment attachments make
use of or otherwise require operator presence control, such as a lawn mower or a snow
thrower, while other outdoor power equipment attachments do not require operator
presence control to be compliant with normal specifications and operating safety
standards. Examples of outdoor power equipment attachments that do not typically make
use of operator presence control include generators and pressure washers. In the case of
attachments that do not make use of operator presence control, the attachment will be
configured to automatically actuate the operator presence actuation member upon secure
connection of the attachment to the power unit, for example, in the manner described
above with reference to FIGS. 13-19.
[00126]     FIGS. 52-53 illustrate another exemplary embodiment in which the power unit
12 is configured to operate both operator presence controlled attachments as well as non
operator presence controlled attachments. In this alternative exemplary embodiment, the
power unit is configured to include a pair of power transfer coupling members (illustrated
in FIGS. 52-53 as a pair of dog clutch members having the general design and
specifications described more fully above) 110, 112. In this exemplary embodiment, the
engine is operatively coupled to the first power transfer coupling member 110 and
selectively coupled to the second power transfer coupling member 112.
[00127]     In one embodiment, the first power transfer coupling member 110 is a direct
drive coupling member such that the power transfer coupling member rotates once the
                                              23

  WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
power unit is powered up. In this exemplary embodiment, the second power transfer
coupling member 112 is a clutched drive member, or otherwise selectively engaged drive
member, such that this power transfer coupling member will only rotate upon actuation of
an operator presence control by the user of the power unit. This clutched drive of the
second power actuation member can be accomplished using a number of configurations,
such as making use of a tensioner inside the housing of the power unit, where such
tensioner tensions a belt between the drive shaft of the engine and the second power
transfer coupling member upon actuation of the operator presence control by the user of
the power unit.
[00128]     It will be appreciated that the power unit and attachment system described
above provides great versatility in terms of using a common power unit to operate both
operator presence controlled attachments as well as attachments that do not make use of
operator presence control. This is accomplished in a smooth and seamless manner that is
transparent to and easy for the user. It will be further appreciated that the features of the
disclosed technology allow the attachment engagement process to be easy and intuitive
for the user, such that it can be accomplished in a matter of several seconds.
[00129]     It will be appreciated that the system described above can be used in
connection with a large number of different attachment configurations, including, but not
limited to a snow thrower configuration (FIGS. 54-55), a lawnmower configuration
(FIGS. 56-58), a generator configuration (FIG. 63), a power washer configuration (FIGS.
59-60), a blower configuration (FIGS. 61-62), a trimmer configuration, a water pump
configuration, a tiller configuration, an aerator configuration, etc.
[00130]     While aspects of the disclosed technology have been described with respect to
outdoor power equipment applications, it will be appreciated that the disclosed
technology may be employed in connection with other applications. For example,
aspects of the disclosed technology may find application in connection with an indoor
power system in which a common motor on a power unit can be releasably coupled to a
number of indoor work tools.
[00131]     Although the disclosed technology has been shown and described with respect
to a certain preferred aspect, embodiment or embodiments, it is obvious that equivalent
alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and
                                               24

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the
various functions performed by the above described elements (components, assemblies,
devices, members, compositions, etc.), the terms (including a reference to a "means")
used to describe such elements are intended to correspond, unless otherwise indicated, to
any element which performs the specified function of the described element (i.e., that is
functionally equivalent), even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure
which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspect, embodiment or
embodiments of the disclosed technology. In addition, while a particular feature of the
disclosed technology may have been described above with respect to only one or more of
several illustrated aspects or embodiments, such feature may be combined with one or
more other features of the other embodiments, as may be desired and advantageous for
any given or particular application.
                                             25

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      An outdoor power equipment power unit configured to selectively power
an associated attachment releasably coupled to the power unit, the power unit
comprising:
        a frame;
        a handle operatively coupled to the frame;
        user controls operatively coupled to the handle, the user controls including an
operator presence control member;
        a power supply operatively coupled to the frame;
        a generally horizontal drive shaft operatively coupled to the power supply;
        a power transfer coupling member operatively coupled to the drive shaft and
configured to transfer rotational power to the associated attachment; and
        an operator presence actuation member operatively coupled to the operator
presence control member, the operator presence actuation member configured to rotate in
response to user actuation of the operator presence control member.
        2.       The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 1, further comprising a
front attachment plate operatively coupled to the frame, the front attachment plate having
a front surface.
        3.       The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 1 or claims 2, wherein
the front surface of the front attachment plate is substantially flat.
        4.       The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-3, wherein
the front attachment plate defines a pair of openings.
        5.       The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 4, wherein the
openings are approximately the same size.
                                              26

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
        6.      The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 4, wherein the
openings are positioned at approximately the same vertical height.
        7.      The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-6, wherein
the openings the front attachment plate has a height and the openings are positioned
approximately in the top 1/3 of the height of the front attachment plate.
        8.      The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-7, wherein
the power transfer coupling member is a dog clutch comprising a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and
a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an angle.
        9.      The outdoor power equipment unit of claim 8, wherein the angle formed
by the top walls is greater at the outer wall than at the inner wall.
        10.     The outdoor power equipment unit of claim 8, wherein the angle formed
by the top walls is approximately the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
        11.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-10, wherein
the power transfer coupling member comprises:
        a base;
        a plurality of engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of
engagement teeth having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and
an inner wall, and a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls
and meet at an angle.
        12.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 11, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls is greater at the outer wall than at the inner wall.
                                               27

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
        13.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 11, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls is approximately the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
        14.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-13, wherein
the operator presence actuation member includes an outer side and an inner side, wherein
the outer side includes a plurality of projections sized and positioned to engage an
operator presence actuation member of the associated attachment.
        15.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-14, further
comprising a pair of wheels coupled to opposite sides of the frame.
        16.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-15, wherein
the operator presence control member is a bail.
        17.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-16, wherein
the handle includes a pair of spaced-apart handle members.
        18.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-17, wherein
the operator presence control member comprises a lever pivotally coupled to one of the
handle members
        19.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-18, wherein
the user controls include a drive lever pivotally coupled to one of the handle members.
        20.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-19, wherein
the operator presence control lever and the drive lever are pivotally coupled to the same
handle member.
        21.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-20, wherein
the power supply is an engine.
                                               28

 WO 2015/123357                                                        PCT/US2015/015504
        22.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-20, wherein
the power supply is an electric motor.
        23.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-20, wherein
the power supply is a hybrid prime mover.
        24.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of any of claims 1-23, further
comprising a support member rotatably coupled to a rear portion of the power unit.
        25.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 24, wherein the support
member is a kickstand.
        26.     The outdoor power equipment power unit of claim 24 or claim 25,
wherein the kickstand is coupled to a latch mechanism.
        27.     An outdoor power equipment attachment configured to be releasably
coupled to an associated power unit, the outdoor power equipment attachment
comprising:
        a housing and a back attachment plate associated with the housing;
        a driven working member disposed at least partially within the housing;
        a power transfer coupling member configured to engage a power transfer coupling
member associated with the power unit, the power transfer coupling member being
operatively coupled to the driven working member to selectively transfer motive power to
the driven working member; and
        an operator presence actuation member configured to engage an operator presence
actuation member associated with the power unit, the operator presence actuation
member configured to be rotatably actuated by the operator presence actuation member
associated with the power unit; and
        wherein the operator presence actuation member is operatively coupled a drive
engagement member configured to selectively engage the power transfer coupling
member to the driven working member to drive the working member.
                                            29

  WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
        28.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 27, wherein the power
transfer coupling member is a dog clutch comprising a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and
a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an angle.
        29.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 27 or claim 28,
wherein the angle formed by the top walls is greater at the outer wall than at the inner
wall.
        30.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-29, wherein
the angle formed by the top walls is approximately the same at the outer wall and at the
inner wall.
        31.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-30, wherein
the power transfer coupling member comprises:
        a base;
        a plurality of engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of
engagement teeth having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and
an inner wall, and a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls
and meet at an angle.
        32.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 31, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls is greater at the outer wall than at the inner wall.
        33.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 31, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls is approximately the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
        34.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-33, further
comprising a pair of strikers extending from the back attachment plate.
                                              30

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
        35.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-34, further
comprising a pair of horizontally oriented strikers extending from the back attachment
plate
        36.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-35, wherein
the back attachment plate defines a pair of openings.
        37.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 36, wherein the
openings are approximately the same size.
        38.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of claim 36, wherein the
openings are positioned at approximately the same vertical height.
        39.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-38, wherein
the operator presence actuation member includes an outer side and an inner side, wherein
the outer side includes a plurality of recesses sized and positioned to receive protrusions
from an operator presence actuation member of the associated power unit.
        40.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-39, wherein
the outdoor power equipment attachment is configured as a snow thrower.
        41.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-40, wherein
the outdoor power equipment attachment is configured as a lawnmower.
        42.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-41, wherein
the outdoor power equipment attachment is configured as a generator.
        43.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-42, wherein
the outdoor power equipment attachment is configured as a pressure washer.
                                              31

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
        44.     The outdoor power equipment attachment of any of claims 27-43, wherein
the outdoor power equipment attachment is configured as a blower.
        45.     A power transfer coupling device configured to couple a base power unit
to an outdoor power equipment accessory, the power transfer coupling device
comprising:
        a base;
        a plurality of engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of
engagement teeth having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and
an inner wall, and a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls
and meet at an angle.
         46.    The power transfer coupling device of claim 45, wherein the angle formed
by the top walls is greater at the outer wall than at the inner wall.
        47.     The power transfer coupling device of claim 45, wherein the angle formed
by the top walls is approximately the same at the outer wall and at the inner wall.
        48.     The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-47, wherein the
engagement teeth are positioned about a perimeter of the base.
        49.     The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-48, wherein the
engagement teeth are positioned about the perimeter of the base with approximately equal
spacing between adjacent engagement teeth.
        50.     The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-48, wherein the
engagement teeth are positioned about the perimeter of the base with variable spacing
between the engagement teeth.
        51.     The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-50, wherein the
base is round.
                                               32

 WO 2015/123357                                                          PCT/US2015/015504
        52.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-51, wherein the
angle formed by the top walls is between about 90 degrees and about 50 degrees.
        53.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-51, wherein the
angle formed by the top walls is between about 80 degrees and about 60 degrees.
        54.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-51, wherein the
angle formed by the top walls varies from about 75 degrees to about 45 degrees.
        55.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-54, wherein the
device includes 12 engagement teeth.
        56.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-54, wherein the
device includes at least 6 engagement teeth.
        57.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-54, wherein the
device includes no more than 6 engagement teeth.
        58.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-57, wherein the
base is round with a diameter of about 3 inches to about 5 inches.
        59.      The power transfer coupling device of any of claims 45-57, wherein the
base is round with a diameter of about 4 inches to about 6 inches.
        60.      A dog clutch assembly configured to rotationally transfer power from a
base power unit to an outdoor power equipment attachment releasably coupled to the
base power unit, the dog clutch assembly comprising:
        a first member, the first member comprising a base and a plurality of engagement
teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth having a lower
                                             33

 WO 2015/123357                                                           PCT/US2015/015504
portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and a top portion
have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an angle; and
        a second member, the second member comprising a base and a plurality of
engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of engagement teeth
having a lower portion including a pair of side walls, an outer wall, and an inner wall, and
a top portion have a pair of top walls that extend from the side walls and meet at an
angle;
        wherein the first member and second member are configured to engage one
another by way of the engagement teeth associated with the first member and the second
member.
        61.     The dog clutch assembly of claim 60, wherein the first member and the
second member are substantially identical.
        62.     The dog clutch assembly of claim 60, wherein the second member
includes one or more vibration damping members
        63.     The dog clutch assembly of any of claims 60-62, wherein the one or more
vibration damping members are positioned within one or more recesses formed in one or
more of the engagement teeth.
        64.     The dog clutch assembly of any of claims 60-63, wherein the first member
and the second member include the same number of engagement teeth.
        65.     The dog clutch assembly of any of claims 60-63, wherein the first member
and the second member have a different number of engagement teeth.
        66.     The dog clutch assembly of any of claims 60-65, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls of the first member is greater at the outer wall than at the inner
wall.
                                              34

 WO 2015/123357                                                            PCT/US2015/015504
        67.     The dog clutch assembly of any of claims 60-65, wherein the angle
formed by the top walls of the second member is approximately the same at the outer
wall and at the inner wall.
        68.     A power transfer coupling device configured to couple a base power unit
to an outdoor power equipment accessory, the power transfer coupling device
comprising:
        a base;
        a plurality of engagement teeth extending from the base, each of the plurality of
engagement teeth having a lower portion including a pair of side surface, an outer
surface, and an inner surface, and a top portion have a pair of top surfaces that extend
from the side surfaces and meet at an angle.
         69.    The power transfer coupling device of claim 68, wherein the angle formed
by the top surfaces is greater at the outer surface than at the inner surface.
        70.     The power transfer coupling device of claim 68, wherein the angle formed
by the top surfaces is approximately the same at the outer surface and at the inner surface.
                                              35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
