                                           Abstract
        Wire netting and method for manufacturing a helix for a wire netting
5       The invention is based on a wire netting (10a; 1ob), in particular a safety net,
  with a plurality of helices (12a, 14a; 12b) which are braided with each other, of which
  at least one helix (12a, 14a; 12b) is bent from at least one single wire, a wire bundle,
  a wire strand, a wire rope and/or another longitudinal element (16a; 16b) with at least
  one wire (18a; 18b), which in particular comprises a high-tensile steel, the at least
0 one helix (12a, 14a; 12b) having at least one first leg (20a; 20b), at least one second
  leg (22a; 22b) as well as at least one bending region (24a; 24b) connecting the first
  leg (20a; 20b) and the second leg (22a; 22b) to each other,
        It is proposed that the longitudinal element (16a; 16b is bent at least
  substantially torsion-free in itself along a contour of the first leg (20a; 20b) and/or of
5 the second leg (22a; 22b).
        (Fig. 10)

                                              - 1
          Wire netting and method for manufacturing a helix for a wire netting
         Technical Field
         The present invention refers to a wire netting and a method for manufacturing a
 5 helix for a wire netting.
         Background art
         From the state of the art wire nettings are known having wire helices which are
   braided with each other. Such wire helices are produced by repeatedly bending of a
 0 wire in a bending direction and have a helical profile. The bending is effected by
   means of a bending table, which bends the wire about a bending mandrel. The wire
   is obliquely supplied to the bending mandrel by means of suitable supply rollers,
   which guide the wire along its longitudinal sides.
         It would be desirable to provide a generic wire netting with advantageous
 5 properties with regard to load-bearing capacity.
         Summary of the invention
         According to one aspect, the invention provides a wire netting, such as a safety
   net, with a plurality of helices which are braided with each other, of which at least one
 0 helix is bent from at least one single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope
   and/or other longitudinal element with at least one wire, which preferably comprises a
   high-tensile steel, and the at least one helix comprising at least one first leg, at least
   one second leg as well as at least one bending region connecting the first leg and the
   second leg to each other. The longitudinal element, in particular the wire, wire
25 bundle, wire strand, or wire rope, is bent at least substantially torsion-free in itself, or
   is bent without any torsion, along a contour of the first leg and/or of the second leg.
         Due to the configuration of the wire netting, at least in preferred embodiments it
   is in particular possible to obtain a high load-bearing capacity. Advantageously, a
   wire netting having a high tensile strength may be provided. Moreover, cracks in the
30 mesh, such as those due to impacting objects, may be reduced. Furthermore, a
   strength of a wire used for

                                               - 2
   manufacturing may be maintained, at least to a large extent. In particular, a tensile
   strength and/or a fragility and/or a flexural rigidity and/or fracture resistance of the
   wire used for manufacturing can be modified only to an irrelevant extent or at least
   only partially in manufacturing. A frequency of wire fractures may be advantageously
 5 reduced during manufacturing of a high-tensile wire netting or the wire fractures may
   be entirely avoided.       Moreover,    manufacturing     inaccuracies due to     material
   irregularities and/or internal stresses may be reduced.
         In this context, a "wire" is in particular to be understood as a longitudinal and/or
   thin   and/or    at  least   machine-bendable       and/or   bendable  body.   The    wire
 0 advantageously has along its longitudinal direction a cross section which is at least
   essentially constant, in particular a circular or elliptical cross section. A particularly
   preferred wire is a round wire. It may however also be conceived that the wire is at
   least section-wise or entirely implemented as a flat wire, a square wire, a polygonal
   wire and/or a profiled wire. The wire may be made, for example, at least partially or
 5 also entirely of metal, in particular a metal alloy, and/or an organic and/or inorganic
   plastic and/or a composite material and/or an inorganic non-metallic material and/or a
   ceramic material. It is conceivable, for example, that the wire is a polymeric wire or a
   plastic material wire. In particular, the wire may be a composite wire, such as a
   metallic-organic composite wire and/or a metallic-inorganic composite wire and/or a
 0 metallic-polymeric composite wire and/or a metal-metal composite wire or similar. In
   particular it may be considered that the wire comprises at least two different
   materials, which in particular are arranged relatively to each other according to a
   composite geometry and/or which are at least partially mixed with each other. The
   wire is advantageously embodied as a metal wire, in particular a steel wire, in
25 particular a stainless-steel wire. If the helix has a plurality of wires, these are
   preferably identical. It may also be that the helix has a plurality of wires, which differ
   in particular regarding their material and/or their diameter and/or their cross section.
   The wire has preferably a coating, in particular corrosion-resistant, and/or a jacket
   such as a zinc coating and/or an aluminum-zinc-coating and/or a plastic coating
30 and/or a PET-coating and/or a metal-oxide coating and/or a ceramic coating or
   similar. The longitudinal element is preferably the wire.
         The transversal extension of the helix is longer, in particular much longer than a
   diameter of the wire and/or a diameter of the longitudinal element of which the helix

                                              - 3
   is implemented. Depending on the application and in particular a desired load
   bearing capacity and/or desired spring characteristics of the wire netting, in particular
   in a frontal direction, the transversal extension may, for example, be two times or
   three or five or ten or 20 times the diameter of the longitudinal element, wherein
 5 intermediate values or smaller values or larger values are conceivable. Moreover,
   depending on an application, the wire may have a diameter of, for example, about 1
   mm, about 2 mm, about 3 mm, about 4 mm, about 5 mm, about 6 mm, about 7 mm
   or even more or even less or also an intermediate diameter value. Larger, in
   particular much larger diameters are also conceivable if the longitudinal element
 0 comprises a plurality of components, in particular a plurality of wires, such as, for
   example, in case of a wire rope or a strand or a wire bundle or similar. By a "main
   extension plane" of an object is in particular a plane to be understood which is
   parallel to a largest side surface of the smallest theoretical rectangular cuboid which
   is just completely enveloping the object, and in particular extends through the center
 5 point of the rectangular cuboid.
         In particular, the wire netting is configured as a slope protection, a safety fence,
   a guard fence, a protective net against rockfall, a blocking fence, a fish farming net, a
   safety net against predators, a corral fence, a tunnel safeguarding, a protection from
   earth flows, a protection fence for motor sports, a street fence, an avalanche
 0 protection or similar. In particular, due to its high-tensile and/or load-bearing capacity,
   applications may be envisaged as a cover and/or envelope, for example for power
   plants, factory buildings, residential buildings or other buildings, for explosion
   protection, bullet proofing, shielding against flying objects, fishing nets, collision
   protection or similar. The wire netting may for example be applied, deployed and/or
25 positioned and/or mounted horizontally or vertically or obliquely, in particular with
   respect to a ground. The wire netting is in particular embodied planar. The wire
   netting is advantageously constructed in a regular and/or periodical way, at least in
   one direction. The wire netting may be preferably rolled up or out, in particular about
   an axis, which is parallel to the main extension direction of the helix. In particular, a
30 rolled-up roll of wire netting may be rolled out in a direction perpendicular to the main
   extension direction of the helix .
         The wire netting preferably has a plurality of in particular identical meshes. The
   helices especially advantageously form the meshes.

                                                - 4
           Preferably, the helix has a spiral shape. In particular, the helix is embodied as a
   flattened spiral. The helix is provided along its contour with a diameter and/or cross
   section which is at least essentially constant or is constant. The helix and/or the wire
   and/or the longitudinal element have a circle-shaped cross-section. Particularly
 5 preferably the helix has a plurality of legs, which are advantageously implemented at
   least substantially identical or are identical. The helix is preferably composed of a
   single, in particular continuous, wire.
           "At least substantially identical" objects is in particular to mean, in this context,
   objects which are configured in such a way that they are respectively capable of
 0 fulfilling a common function and which differ in their construction, except for
   manufacturing tolerances, at most by single elements, which are irrelevant for the
   common function. Preferably, "at least substantially identical" means that they are
   identical, except for manufacturing tolerances and/or in the context of manufacturing
   possibilities. An "at least substantially constant value" in particular means, in this
 5 context, a value which varies at most by 20%, advantageously at most 15%, in
   particular at most 10%, preferably at most 5% and in particular at most 2%. An object
   having an "at least substantially constant cross section" is in particular to mean that
   for an arbitrary first cross section of the object along at least one direction and an
   arbitrary second cross section of the object along the direction, a minimum surface
 0 area of a difference surface, which is formed by overlapping the cross sections, is at
   most 20%, advantageously at most 10% and especially advantageously at most 5%
   of the surface area of the larger of the two cross sections.
           In particular, the helix has a longitudinal direction. Preferably, the longitudinal
   direction of the helix is arranged at least substantially parallel or parallel to a main
25 extension direction of the helix. Preferably, the helix has a longitudinal axis extending
   parallel to the longitudinal direction of the helix. Preferably, the main extension plane
   of the helix is arranged at least substantially parallel to the main extension plane of
   the wire netting, at least in a planarly unfolded and/or planarly rolled-out state of the
   wire netting, which may in particular differ from an installed state of the wire netting.
30 A "main extension direction" of an object is intended to mean, in particular, a direction
   which runs parallel to a longest edge of a smallest imaginary rectangular cuboid,
   which just still completely encloses the object. "At least substantially parallel" should
   mean in particular an orientation of a direction relative to a reference direction, in

                                                - 5
   particular in a plane, wherein the direction has a deviation relative to the reference
   direction, which is in particular less than 80, advantageously less than 50 and
   particularly advantageously less than 20.
         Preferably, the wire netting has a plurality or a multiplicity of, in particular at
 5 least substantially identically formed or in particular identically, formed helices. It is
   also conceivable that the wire netting is composed of several different helices. In
   particular, it is conceivable that the wire netting has a plurality or multiplicity of first
   helices and a plurality or multiplicity of second helixes of different construction with
   respect to the first helices, which are in particular arranged alternately. The helices
 0 are advantageously connected to each other. In particular, adjacent helices are
   arranged such that their longitudinal directions are parallel. Preferably, a respective
   helix is braided and/or twisted into two helices which are adjacent to said helix. In
   particular, the wire netting is producible by twisting a helix into a pre-netting, twisting
   a further helix into this twisted-in helix, twisting a helix into this further twisted-in helix
 5 in turn, and so on. In particular, the helices of the wire netting have the same
   direction of rotation. Advantageously, in each case two helices are knotted with one
   another, in particular respectively at a first of their ends and/or respectively at a
   second of their ends situated opposite their first ends.
         Preferably, a torsional state of the longitudinal element, in particular of the wire,
 0 in the helix corresponds to a torsional state of the longitudinal element, in particular
   of the wire, before a bending of the longitudinal element, in particular of the wire, to
   form the helix. In particular, the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is twisted
   in itself in particular about its longitudinal axis along a section of the helix which
   comprises at least three bending regions, advantageously at least four bending
25 regions, more preferably at least 5 bending regions, preferably at least 10 bending
   regions, more preferably at least 15 bending regions and in a particularly preferable
   case at least 20 bending regions, by less than a complete rotation. In particular, the
   longitudinal element is twisted in itself along a section of the helix which comprises a
   certain number of bending regions, by an angle which is smaller, advantageously at
30 least twice smaller, especially advantageously at least three times smaller, preferably
   at least five times smaller and especially advantageously at least ten times smaller
   than a sum of all bending angles of all bending regions of the section. Preferably, the
   longitudinal element, in particular the wire, has a smaller torsion than the one a

                                              - 6
   longitudinal element would have in the case of a bending of bending regions, in
   which the longitudinal element to be bent is retained in such a way that a rotation
   about its longitudinal axis is prevented.
         In particular, the wire is at least partially, in particular entirely except for a
 5 coating, made of high-tensile steel. For example, the high-tensile steel may be spring
   steel and/or a steel suitable for wire ropes. In particular, the wire has a tensile
   strength of at least 800 N mm-2, advantageously at least 1000 N mm-2, especially
   advantageously at least 1200 N mm-2, preferably of at least 1400 N mm- 2, and more
   preferably at least 1600 N mm- 2, in particular a tensile strength of about 1770 N mm- 2
 0 or of about 1960 N mm- 2. It is also conceivable that the wire has an even higher
   tensile strength, for example a tensile strength of at least 2000 N mm- 2, or of at least
   2200 N mm- 2, or even at least 2400 N mm- 2. In this way, a high load-bearing capacity,
   in particular a high tensile strength and/or a high rigidity are achievable transversally
   to the mesh.
 5       In an advantageous embodiment of the invention it is proposed that the
   longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is bent, at least substantially without any
   torsion in itself or without any torsion in itself, along a contour of the bending region.
   In particular the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is bent, at least
   substantially without any torsion in itself or without any torsion in itself, along a
 0 contour of the helix. The helix is advantageously free of torsion. The wire netting is
   preferably braided from helices which are bent without torsion. In this way, a durable
   connection may be advantageously established between adjacent helices of a wire
   netting. Moreover, in this way, breakage in the area of bending regions may be
   avoided.
25       In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that a
   surface structure of the first leg and/or of the second leg has a preferential direction
   which is parallel to a main extension direction of the first leg and/or of the second leg.
   The first leg and/or the second leg advantageously have at least one surface
   structure element extending parallel to the main extension direction of the first leg
30 and/or of the second leg. For example, the surface structure element may be
   embodied as a ridge, in particular of less than 50 pm, preferably less than 20 pm and
   particularly advantageously of less than 10 pm, and/or as a region of material
   disposed on a wire surface and/or as a surface texture. In particular, the surface

                                              - 7
   structure comprises a plurality of surface structure elements. Advantageously a
   plurality of surface structure elements extends at least substantially parallel or
   parallel to the main extension direction of the first leg and/or of the second leg. In
   particular, the preferential direction is equivalent to an average direction of individual
 5 contours of the surface structure elements. In particular, the coating of the wire
   implements the surface structure. It may also be conceived that the wire is not coated
   and implements the surface structure. In this way, a high tensile strength may be
   achieved.
         Moreover, it is proposed that the surface structure of the first leg and/or of the
 0 second leg is free from partial structures extending spirally and/or helically with
   respect to the main extension direction of the first leg and/or second leg, in particular
   rotating and/or winding about the longitudinal direction of the helix. In this way, a
   breaking or rupturing of a wire netting in the area of a leg may be avoided.
         Moreover, it is proposed that, in a transverse view, parallel to a main extension
 5 plane of the helix and perpendicularly to a longitudinal direction of the helix, the
   bending region at least section-wise follows an at least approximately straight
   contour, in particular a straight contour. "At least approximately straight" is in
   particular to mean, in this context, straight, preferably linear, within manufacturing
   tolerances. Preferably in the transversal view a section of the bending region follows
 0 the at least approximately straight or straight contour, wherein this section comprises
   at least 50%, advantageously at least 75% and particularly advantageously at least
   85% of the bending region. The bending region is curved in the section, in particular
   in an area of the bending region, in a plane which is parallel to the approximately
   straight contour of the bending region. In the frontal view, the approximately straight
25 contour preferably is at least substantially parallel or parallel to the longitudinal
   direction of the helix. This allows providing a bending region with a high tensile
   strength and/or with a high flexural rigidity. Furthermore, this allows a favorable
   geometry with regard to a connecting of bending regions of different helices.
         It is also proposed that, in the transverse view, the helix follows at least section
30 wise a stepped, in particular obliquely stepped contour. Preferably, the first leg, the
   bending region and the second leg in the transverse view form the stepwise contour,
   wherein the bending region or at least its approximately straight contour includes with
   the first leg and/or with the second leg an angle which is equivalent to a gradient

                                              -8
   angle of the bending region.
          A high stability of a wire netting transversally to its surface can be achieved if
   the first leg and/or the second leg at least section-wise follow a straight contour.
   Advantageously, the first leg and the second leg form straight sides of a mesh of the
 5 wire netting. Particularly advantageously the entire first leg and/or the entire second
   leg are embodied straight. In particular, the first leg and/or the second leg have a
   length of at least 1 cm, advantageously of at least 2 cm, particularly advantageously
   of at least 3 cm, preferably of at least 5 cm and particularly preferably of at least 7
   cm. However, the first leg and the second leg can have any other lengths, in
 0 particular considerably greater lengths. For example, the first leg and/or the second
   leg may have a length of at least 10 cm or at least 15 cm or at least 20 cm or at least
   25 cm or an even greater length, especially in a case where the helix is embodied as
   a strand of wire, a wire rope, a wire bundle or similar.
          In a further embodiment of the invention, it is proposed that the first leg runs at
 5 least section-wise in a first plane and the second leg extends at least section-wise in
   a second plane that is parallel to the first plane. In particular, at least two adjacent
   legs of the helix extend in parallel planes. Advantageously, the first leg extends in the
   transverse view parallel to the second leg. Preferably, the first leg and the further first
   leg extend in the first plane and/or the second leg and the further second leg extend
 0 in the second plane. Preferably, the first plane defines a front side of the wire netting
   and/or the second plane defines a rear side of the wire netting or vice versa. As a
   result, a wire netting with a double-surface and/or a double-walled structure can be
   provided. Preferably, forces acting transversely to the mesh can thereby be
   effectively accommodated with minimal deformation of the mesh.
25        According to another aspect, the invention provides a method for manufacturing
   a helix for a wire netting, in particular for a safety net, wherein the helix is bent from
   at least one single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or other
   longitudinal element with at least one wire, which preferably comprises a high-tensile
   steel, in such a way that it comprises at least one first leg, at least one second leg as
30 well as at least one bending region connecting the first leg and the second leg to
   each other. The longitudinal element, in particular the wire, wire bundle, wire strand,
   wire rope, is at least substantially bent, without any torsion in itself, along a contour of
   the first leg and/or of the second leg. The longitudinal element is bent by means of a

                                               - 9
   bending device, which the longitudinal element is supplied to for bending, wherein
   during supply the longitudinal element is rotated about its longitudinal axis.
          With the method, advantageous properties related to load-bearing capacity of a
   wire netting may be achieved with preferred embodiments. Advantageously a wire
 5 netting may be provided with a high tensile strength. Moreover, fractures in the mesh,
   such as those caused by impacting objects, may be reduced. Moreover, a strength of
   a wire used for manufacturing can be maintained, at least for the most part. In
   particular, in manufacturing a tensile strength and/or fragility and/or flexural rigidity
   and/or break resistance of a wire used for manufacturing are only slightly or at least
 0 only partially modified. Wire ruptures may be avoided or at least reduced in
   manufacturing of high-tensile wire nettings. Moreover, manufacturing errors due to
   material stresses may be reduced.
          The longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is bent by means of at least one
   bending device. Particularly preferably, the bending device has at least one bending
 5 table. The bending device has at least one bending mandrel, about which during a
   bending the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is bent, in particular by the
   bending table. The wire is preferably supplied to the bending mandrel under an angle
   which is different from 900 and which is in particular equivalent to a gradient angle of
   the first leg with respect to the longitudinal direction of the helix.
 0        In particular, the method is provided for manufacturing the wire netting. The
   method preferably comprises a step for producing and/or implementing at least one
   of the features of the wire netting. "Provided" should in particular mean, specifically
   programmed, designed and/or equipped. The fact that an object is provided for a
   certain function is in particular intended to imply that the object fulfills and/or performs
25 this function in at least one application and/or operating state. The fact that a method
   is "provided" for a certain purpose is in particular to mean that the method contains at
   least one method step which is specifically directed to the purpose, and/or that the
   method is specifically directed to the purpose, and/or that the method serves to fulfill
   the purpose and is at least partially optimized for said fulfilment.
30        The fact that a method step is "provided" for a purpose is in particular to mean
   that the method step is specifically directed to the step, and/or that the method step
   is specifically targeted at the purpose, and/or that the method step serves to fulfill the
   purpose and is at least partially optimized toward said fulfilment.

                                       - 9a
     It is also proposed that the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is
supplied to the bending device for bending, wherein the longitudinal element, in

                                               - 10
   particular the wire, during supply is rotated about its longitudinal axis. Preferably a
   rotation direction of the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, during supply, is
   equivalent to a sense of rotation of the helix. In particular, the longitudinal element, in
   particular the wire, is rotated about its longitudinal axis in such a way that a torsion
 5 occurring during bending about the bending mandrel is compensated. Thus, a
   twisting of a wire during a bending of a helix may be advantageously avoided.
          Moreover, it is proposed that the longitudinal element, in particular the wire,
   passes through a rotating orienting apparatus. The orienting apparatus is rotated
   about the longitudinal axis of the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, in
 0 particular with a rotation speed, which is in particular at least substantially equivalent
   to a rotation speed of the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, about its
   longitudinal axis. Preferably the orienting apparatus is supported rotatably about the
   longitudinal axis of the longitudinal element, in particular the wire. Thus, a high
   manufacturing precision at high throughput may be achieved.
 5        In a preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that the longitudinal
   element, in particular the wire, is unwound from a co-rotated reel. The reel is
   preferably supported rotatably about an unwinding axis. Especially advantageously
   the reel, in particular an unwinding bearing of the reel, is supported rotatably about a
   rotation axis. In particular, the rotation axis of the reel is different from the unwinding
 0 axis of the reel. The unwinding axis of the reel is preferably perpendicular to the
   rotation axis of the reel. In particular, the unwinding axis is rotated about the rotation
   axis during co-rotation of the reel. In particular, a rotation of the reel is synchronized
   with a rotation of the orienting apparatus. In particular, the reel is co-rotated about the
   rotation axis of the reel with a rotation speed which is in particular at least
25 substantially equivalent to a rotation speed of the longitudinal element, in particular of
   the wire, about its longitudinal axis. "At least substantially" should mean in this
   context in particular that a deviation from a given value is in particular less than 15%,
   preferably less than 10% and in particular less than 5% of the given value. Thus, a
   long operating life between exchanging of the wire is advantageously achievable.
30 Moreover, a twisting of the wire during feeding to a bending device may be
   prevented.
          In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention it is proposed that by at
   least one adjustment of the rotation speed of the longitudinal element, in particular of

                                              - 11
   the wire, a torsion of the longitudinal element, in particular of the wire, during bending
   by the bending device is compensated. In particular, the rotation speed of the
   longitudinal element, in particular of the wire, at least substantially corresponds to a
   torsion speed of the longitudinal element, in particular of the wire, caused by the
 5 bending. Thus, a fast and precise manufacturing of torsion free helices for a wire
   netting may be achieved.
          It is also proposed that, for bending of the bending region, the longitudinal
   element, in particular the wire, is rotated at least by a compensating angle, which
   corresponds to an angle between the first leg and the second leg in a front view
 0 perpendicular to a main extension plane of the helix, in particular an angle between a
   longitudinal axis of the first leg and a longitudinal axis of the second leg. In particular,
   the longitudinal element, in particular the wire, is rotated by the compensation angle
   for each bended bending region. An angular velocity of the rotation of the longitudinal
   element, in particular of the wire, advantageously corresponds to the angle between
 5 the first leg and the second leg in the front view, multiplied by a manufacturing rate of
   a bending of bending regions. In this way a compensating rotation of a longitudinal
   element may be advantageously adapted to a geometry of a helix that is to be bent.
          Advantageous properties related to a precise and/or fast manufacturing of a
   wire netting     having a high      load-bearing capacity may be obtained with            a
 0 manufacturing device for manufacturing a wire netting, which is provided for
   performing the inventive method.
          A wire netting according to the invention, a bending device according to the
   invention and a method according to the invention are herein not to be restricted to
   the applications and implementation forms described above. In particular, to fulfill a
25 functionality herein described, a wire netting according to the invention, a bending
   device according to the invention and a method according to the invention may
   comprise a number of respective elements and/or structural components and/or units
   and/or method steps that differs from a number herein mentioned.
30        Drawings
          Further advantages may be obtained from the following description of the
   drawings. In the drawings, two exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown.
   The drawings, the description and claims contain various characteristics in

                                             - 12
   combination. The skilled in the art may advantageously also consider the
   characteristics    individually and    then    combine    them    in further  reasonable
   combinations.
         In particular:
 5       Fig. 1 shows a part of a wire netting in a schematic front view,
         Fig. 2 shows a part of a helix of the wire netting in a perspective view,
         Fig. 3 shows another part of the wire netting in a schematic front view,
         Fig. 4 shows two legs and a bending region of the helix in different views,
         Fig. 5 shows two interconnected bending regions of two helices in different
 0 views,
         Fig. 6 shows a part of the helix in a longitudinal view, in a schematic
   representation,
         Fig. 7 shows a part of the helix in a transverse view, in a schematic
   representation,
 5       Fig. 8 shows a part of the helix in a perspective view,
         Fig. 9 shows a schematic flow chart of a method for producing the wire netting,
   in a schematic representation,
         Fig. 10 shows a manufacturing device for producing the wire netting, in a
   schematic representation,
 0       Fig. 11 shows a bending device of the manufacturing device in a perspective
   view,
         Fig. 12 shows a bending space of the bending device in a first operating
   condition in a perspective view,
         Fig. 13 shows the bending space in a second operating condition in a
25 perspective view,
         Fig. 14 shows a part of another wire netting in a schematic front view and
         Fig. 15 shows a part of the further wire netting in a longitudinal view, in a
   schematic representation.
30       Description of the exemplary embodiments
         Fig. 1 shows a part of a wire netting 10a in a schematic front view. The wire
   netting 10a is formed as a safety net. The wire netting 10a shown can be used for
   example as a slope protection, landslide protection net, security fence or the like. The

                                             - 13
   wire netting 10a has a plurality of helices 12a, 14a braided with each other, in
   particular a helix 12a and another helix 14a. In the present case, the wire netting 10a
   has a plurality of identically formed helices 12a, 14a, which are screwed into one
   another and form the wire netting 1Ca.
 5        Fig. 2 shows part of the helix 12a of the wire netting 1Ca in a perspective view.
   Fig. 3 shows another part of wire netting 1Ca in a schematic front view. The helix 12a
   is made of a longitudinal element 16a. The longitudinal element 16a has a wire 18a.
   In the present case, the longitudinal element 16a is the wire 18a. But it is also
   conceivable that a longitudinal element a plurality of wires and/or other elements. For
 0 example, a longitudinal element may be formed as a wire rope, a wire bundle, a wire
   strand or similar. The following describes the properties of the wire 18a. However,
   these are transferable to the case of other longitudinal elements accordingly. In a
   manner analogous to the wire 18a shown, for example, a stranded wire or a wire
   bundle or other longitudinal element may be bent into a helix and helices of such
 5 longitudinal elements may be connected correspondingly to form a wire netting.
          In the present case, the wire 18a is formed as a single wire. The wire 18a has a
   corrosion resistant coating. The wire 18a is bent to form the helix 12a. The helix 12a
   is integrally formed. The helix 12a is formed by a single piece of wire. In the present
   case, the wire 18a has a diameter of 3 mm. The wire 18a is at least partially made of
 0 a high-tensile steel. The wire 18a is formed by a high-tensile steel wire. The wire 18a
   has a tensile strength of at least 800 N mm- 2 . In the present case, the wire 18a has a
   tensile strength of about 1770 N mm- 2 . Of course, as mentioned above, however,
   other tensile strengths are conceivable, in particular also tensile strengths of more
   than 2200 N mm- 2 . In particular, it is conceivable that a wire is made of very high
25 tensile steel. It is also conceivable that a wire has a different diameter, like for
   example less than 1 mm or about 1 mm or about 2 mm or about 4 mm or about 5 mm
   or about 6 mm or even larger diameter. As mentioned above, it is conceivable that a
   wire has different materials and in particular is configured as a composite wire.
         The helix 12a and the further helix 14a are identical. in the following an example
30 of the helix 12a is thus described in more detail. It is however conceivable that a wire
   netting comprises at least one first helix and at least one second helix formed
   differently from the first helix.
         The helix 12a has a first leg 20a, a second leg 22a and a bending region 24a

                                              - 14
   connecting the first leg 20a and the second leg 22a. In the present case, the helix
   12a has a plurality of first legs 20a, a plurality of second legs 22a and a plurality of
   bending regions 24a, which are not all provided with reference numerals for reasons
   of clarity. Furthermore, in the present case, the first legs 20a are at least substantially
 5 identical to each other. Moreover, in the present case, the second legs 22a are at
   least substantially identical to each other. Moreover, in the present case, the bending
   regions 24 are at least substantially identical to each other. In the following the first
   leg 20a, the second leg 22a and the bending region 24a are thus shown in more
   detail. It is obvious that a wire netting may have different first legs and/or different
 0 second legs and/or different bending regions.
         The helix 12a has a longitudinal direction 28a. The helix 12a has a longitudinal
   axis 109a, which is parallel to the longitudinal direction 28a. The longitudinal direction
   28a is equivalent to a main extension direction of helix 12a. In a front view,
   perpendicular to a main extension plane of helix 12a, the first leg 20a extends with a
 5 first gradient angle 26a with respect to longitudinal direction 28a of helix 12a. In
   particular, the front view is directed in the front direction 54a. The first leg 20a has a
   longitudinal axis 11 Ca. The longitudinal axis 11 Ca of first leg 20a is parallel to a main
   extension direction 112a of the first leg 20a. In fig. 3, the helix 12a is shown in the
   front view. The longitudinal axis 109a of helix 12a and longitudinal axis 11 Ca of first
 0 leg 20a form the first gradient angle 26a. The first leg 20a herein has a length of
   about 65 mm. The second leg 22a has a length of about 65 mm.
         Figure 4 shows a section of helix 12a, which comprises the first leg 20a, the
   second leg 22a and the bending region 24a, in different views. Fig. 4a shows a view
   in the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a. Fig. 4b shows the first leg 20a, the
25 second leg 22a and the bending region 24a in a transverse view perpendicular to the
   longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a and in the main extension plane of the helix
   12a. Fig. 4c shows a view in the frontal direction 54a. Figure 4d shows a perspective
   view. In the transverse view, the bending region 24a extends at least section-wise
   with a second gradient angle 30a different from the first gradient angle 26a with
30 respect to the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a. In the transverse view, the
   bending region 24a has a longitudinal axis 114a. The longitudinal axis 114a of the
   bending region 24a and the longitudinal axis 109a of the helix 12a include the second
   gradient angle 30a.

                                             - 15
           The second gradient angle 30a differs by at least 50 from the first gradient
   angle 26a. The second gradient angle 30a has a value between 250 and 650.
   Furthermore, the first gradient angle 26a is greater than 450. In the present case, the
   first gradient angle 26a is about 600. Furthermore, in the present case, the second
 5 gradient angle 30a is about 450. The second gradient angle 30a is smaller than the
   first gradient angle 26a. Of course, it is also conceivable that a first gradient angle
   and a second gradient angle are identical. For example, a first gradient angle and a
   second gradient angle both may each be at least substantially or exactly equal to
   450. Other values are also conceivable, for example 300 or 350 or 400 or 500 or 550 or
 0 600 or 650 or 700 or other, in particular even larger or even smaller values. Values for
   a first gradient angle and a second gradient angle will be suitably selected by the
   skilled in the art, in particular according to a requirement profile for a corresponding
   wire netting.
         The bending region 24a follows, in a transverse view, at least section-wise, an
 5 at least approximately straight path. In the present case, a large part of the bending
   region 24a follows the straight path in the transverse view.
          In the transverse view, the helix 12a follows a stepwise progression, at least
   section-wise. The stepwise path is obliquely stepped.
         The first leg 20a follows, at least section-wise, a straight path. In the present
 0 case, the first leg 20a follows a straight path. The second leg 22a follows at least
   section-wise a straight path. In the present case, the second leg 22a follows a
   straight path. The first leg 20a and/or the second leg 22a are free of a curvature
   and/or a bending an/or a kink. The bending region 24a has a contour which, in a
   longitudinal view parallel to the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a, describes a
25 bend of 1800. In Fig. 4a, the helix 12a is shown in the longitudinal view.
         The first leg 20a extends at least section-wise, in particular completely, in a first
   plane and the second leg 22a extends at least section-wise, in particular completely,
   in a second plane parallel to the first plane. In the longitudinal view, the first leg 20a
   runs parallel to the second leg 22a.
30       The further helix 14a has a further bending region 32a. The bending region 24a
   and the further bending region 32a are connected. The bending region 24a and the
   further bending region 32a form a coupling point of the helix 12a to the further helix
   14a.

                                              - 16
          Fig. 5 shows a part of the wire netting 1Ca, which comprises the bending region
   24a and the further bending region 32a, in different views. Fig. 5a shows a view in
   the longitudinal direction 28a of the helix 12a. Fig. 5b shows the part of the wire
   netting 10a in a transverse view perpendicular to the longitudinal direction 28a of the
 5 helix 12a in the main extension plane of the helix 12a. Fig. 5c shows a view in the
   frontal direction 54a. Fig. 5d shows a perspective view.
         The helix 12a and the further helix 14a intersect at least substantially
   perpendicularly in a region of the further bending region 32a. In the transverse view,
   the bending region 24a and the further bending region 32a include an intersection
 0 angle 11 8a. The intersection angle 11 8a depends on the second gradient angle 30a
   and a correspondingly defined further second gradient angle of further helix 14a.
   Herein, the intersection angle 11 8a is equal to 900.
         Also for other first gradient angles, a second gradient angle of 450 is
   advantageously selected so that correspondingly configured helixes intersect
 5 perpendicularly at connection points and these connection points advantageously
   have a high mechanical resilience. Of course, however, also angles differing from 900
   are conceivable, for example of 450 or 600 or 1200 or 1450 or having a larger, smaller
   or intermediate value. The skilled in the art will select an intersection angle suitably in
   particular according to a requirement profile for a corresponding wire netting.
 0        Fig. 6 shows part of the helix 12a in a longitudinal view, in a schematic
   representation. Fig. 7 shows a part of the helix 12a in a transverse view, in a
   schematic representation. Fig. 8 shows a part of the helix 12a in a perspective view.
   The wire 18a is bent at least substantially without torsion along a path of the first leg
   20a and the second leg 22a. Further, the wire 18a is bent at least substantially
25 without torsion along a path of the bending region 24a.
         The first leg 22a is free from torsion. In particular, the first leg 10a is not twisted
   in itself. The second leg 22a is free of a torsion. In particular, the second leg 22a is
   not twisted in itself. The bending region 24a is free from torsion along its path. In the
   transverse view (see Fig. 7), the bending region 24a is free from torsion. It is
30 conceivable that a helix has torsion-free legs but has an at least slightly twisted
   bending region.
         The first leg 20a has a surface structure 200a, which has a preferential direction
   202a, which extends parallel to the main extension direction 11 2a of the first leg 20a.

                                             - 17
   The surface structure 200a of the first leg 20a is free of spiraling or helically
   extending partial structures with respect to the main extension direction 112a of the
   first leg 20a.
          The surface structure 200a extends over the bending region 24a. The surface
 5 structure 200a extends over the second leg 20a. The surface structure 200a has a
   preferential direction 203a which extends parallel to a main extension direction 220a
   of the second leg 22a. The surface structure 200a of the second leg 22a is devoid of
   spirally or helically extending substructures.
          The surface structure 200a comprises a plurality of surface structure elements
 0 214a, 216a, 218a, of which not all are provided with reference numerals for reasons
   of clarity. The surface structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a are formed as ridges on
   a surface of the wire 18a, in particular as ridges in the micrometer range. The surface
   structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a are part of a surface texture of the wire 18a.
   The surface structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a have at least substantially straight
 5 contours along the first leg 20a. Furthermore, the surface structure elements 214a,
   216a, 218a extend in a region of the bending region 24a parallel to the contour of the
   bending region 24a. In addition, the surface structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a
   have at least substantially straight contours along the second leg 22a. The surface
   structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a extend along the first leg 20a respectively in
 0 one plane. The surface structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a extend along the
   second leg 22a, each in a plane. The surface structure elements 214a, 216a, 218a
   extend along the bending region 24a in a respective plane. The surface structure
   elements 214a, 216a, 218a extend on average along the preferential direction 202a,
   203a of the surface structure 200a. The preferential direction 202a, 203a of the
25 surface structure 200a follows a contour of the helix 12a.
           Fig. 9 shows a schematic flow diagram of a method for manufacturing the wire
   netting 1Ca. In a first step 224a, the helix 12a is produced from the wire 18a in such a
   way that the wire 18a is bent at least substantially without torsion in itself along a
   path of the first leg 20a and the second leg 22a. In a second step 226a, the helix 12a
30 is braided with a pre-mesh of the wire netting 1Ca.
           Fig. 10 shows a manufacturing device 222a for manufacturing the wire netting
   10a. The manufacturing device 222a is provided for manufacturing the wire netting
   10a. The manufacturing device 222a has a bending device 74a. The longitudinal

                                           - 18
   element 16a or, in the present case, its wire 18a is bent by means of the bending
   device, which supplies the wire 18a to a bending step, wherein the wire 18a while
   being supplied is rotated about its longitudinal axis 204a. Regarding a description of
   bending device 74a, reference is made to figures 11 to 13. If, instead of the wire 18a,
 5 a longitudinal element not configured as a single wire such as a strand and/or a wire
   bundle or similar is used, this is processed and/or fed and/or bent and/or
   straightened in a way similar to wire 18a. In the following, however, the case is
   described, in which the longitudinal element 16a is configured as a wire 18a.
         The manufacturing device 222a has a rotating orienting apparatus 206a. In the
 0 manufacturing of helix 12a, the wire 18a passes through the rotating orienting
   apparatus 206a. The orienting apparatus 206a is rotatably mounted about a rotation
   axis 228a. The rotation axis 228a is equivalent to the longitudinal axis 204a of the
   wire 18a.
         The manufacturing device 222a has a co-rotated reel 208a. In the production of
 5 the helix 12a, the wire 18a is unwound from the co-rotated reel 208a. The co-rotated
   reel 208a is rotatably mounted about the rotation axis 228a. For unwinding the wire
   18a from the co-rotated reel 208a, the co-rotated reel 208a is rotated about an
   unwinding axis 230a, which is perpendicular to the rotation axis 228a. When the co
   rotated reel 208a rotates about the rotation axis 228a, the unwinding axis 230a
 0 rotates about the rotation axis 228a.
         The manufacturing device 222a has a drive unit, not shown, which is provided
   for rotating the co-rotated reel 208a and the orienting apparatus 206a and thus the
   wire 18a about the axis of rotation 228a. In the case shown, the orienting apparatus
   206a and the reel 208a rotate about the same rotation axis 228a. It is of course also
25 conceivable that the wire 18a between the co-rotated reel 208a and the orienting
   apparatus 206a is guided around at least one curve and the orienting apparatus 206a
   is rotated about a different axis of rotation than the reel 208a. In this case, the
   longitudinal axis 204a of the wire 18a extends in a region of the reel 208a other than
   in an area of the orienting apparatus 206a.
30       A twisting of the wire 18a during bending by the bending device 74a is
   compensated by adjusting a rotational speed of the wire 18a.
         The wire 18a is rotated for bending of the bending region 24a at least by a
   compensation angle that is equivalent to an angle 212a between the first leg 22a and

                                             - 19
   the second leg 22a in a front view perpendicular to a main extension plane of the
   helix 12a. In particular, the first gradient angle 26a and half of the angle 212a
   between the first leg 20a and the second leg 22a add up to 900. Upon bending of the
   wire 18a by means of the bending device 74a, a twist of the wire 18a is generated for
 5 each bent bending region by the angle 212a between the first leg 20a and the
   second leg 22a. This generated torsion is compensated by the rotation of the wire
   18a about its longitudinal axis 204a. The wire 18a is thereby rotated in a direction
   which is equivalent to a direction of rotation of the helix 12a.
          Fig. 11 shows the bending device 74a of the manufacturing device 222a in a
 o perspective view. Fig. 12 shows a bending space 140a of the bending device 74a in
   a first operating state in a perspective view. Fig. 13 shows the bending space 140a in
   a second operating state in a perspective view. The bending device 74a is adapted to
   create the first helix 12a. The bending device 74a is adapted for bending the first
   helix 12a according to the geometry of the first helix 12a, in particular the legs 20a,
 5 22a and the bending region 24a of the first helix 12a. The bending device 74a is
   adapted to create the first helix 12a from the wire 18a. The wire 18a, in an unbent
   state, forms a helix blank 76a. The bending device 74a is provided for manufacturing
   the first helix 12a by means of bending the helix blank 76a.
          The bending device 74a has a bending unit 78a. The bending unit 78 includes a
 0 bending mandrel 80a and a bending table 82a. The bending table 82a is provided for
   bending the helix blank 76a around the bending mandrel 80a. The bending table 82a
   is supported in order to circulate around the bending mandrel 80a. During
   manufacturing, the bending table 82a continuously runs in a circulating direction
   142a around the bending mandrel 80a. The bending mandrel 80a has a longitudinal
25 axis 144a. The longitudinal axis 144a of the bending mandrel 80a is parallel to a
   main extension direction 94a of the bending mandrel 80a.
          The bending device 74a has a feeding unit 84a which is provided for advancing
   the helix blank 76a along a feeding axis 86a in a feeding direction 88a. The feeding
   axis 86a is arranged parallel to the feeding direction 88a. The feeding direction 88a
30 runs parallel to a main extension direction of the helix blank 76a. The feeding axis
   86a encloses an angle with the longitudinal axis 144a of the bending mandrel 80a
   which is at least substantially and in particular exactly equivalent to the first gradient
   angle 26a. The first gradient angle 26a can be adjusted by adjusting the feeding axis

                                            - 20
   86a relative to the longitudinal axis 144a of the mandrel 80a.
         During manufacture, the helix blank 76a is repeatedly fed. The bending unit
   78a, in particular the bending table 82a, bends after the feeding has been completed,
   the helix blank 76a respectively around the bending mandrel 80a in order to produce
 5 a bending region of the manufactured first helix 12a. The feeding unit 84a releases
   the helix blank 76a during bending so that it can rotate about the longitudinal axis
   204a of the wire 18a due to the rotation of the wire 18a. It is conceivable that the wire
   18a is guided around at least one curve and its longitudinal axis 204a in a region of
   the feeding unit 84a and/or in a region of the bending space 140a is different from the
 0 axis of rotation 228a of co-rotated reel 208a and/or of the orienting apparatus 206a.
   A diameter of the bending mandrel 80a defines a bending curvature of the bending
   region 24a. In particular, the diameter of the bending mandrel 80a defines an inner
   radius of the bending region 24a.
         The bending device 74a has an abutment unit 96a with at least one abutment
 5 element 98a defining a maximum feeding position for the helix blank 76a. When
   feeding, the helix blank 76a can be advanced by the feeding unit 84a up to the
   maximum feeding position. The helix blank 76a, before bending by the bending table
   82a about the bending mandrel 80a, is in the maximum feeding position. In the
   maximum feeding position, the helix blank 76a abuts the abutment element 98a with
 0 the last bent bending region 166a of the first helix 12a. The first operating state
   shown in Fig. 12 corresponds to a situation immediately before bending the helix
   blank 76a about the bending mandrel 80a. The helix blank 76a is in the first operating
   state in the maximum feeding position. The second operating state shown in Fig. 13
   corresponds to a situation during the bending of the helix blanks 76a about the
25 bending mandrel 80a. The bending table 82a is displaced in the second operating
   state along the direction of rotation 142a with respect to its position in the first
   operating state.
         The abutment element 98a is mounted completely circumferentially around the
   bending mandrel 80a. The abutment element 98a runs, during manufacturing,
30 continuously about the bending mandrel 80a in the direction of circulation 142a.
         The bending table 82a is pivotally mounted about a bending axis 102a, which
   circulates around the bending mandrel 80a itself, in particular in the direction of
   circulation 142a, while the bending table 82a is rotated about the bending mandrel

                                            - 21
   80a. The pivot axis 102a moves during manufacture on a circular path. The pivot axis
   102a moves at a constant angular velocity during manufacture. During bending, the
   bending table 82a and the abutment element 98a run around the bending mandrel
   80a at the same speed. After bending, the bending table 82a pivots about the pivot
 5 axis 102a, thereby defining a maximum bending angle. The bending table 82a then
   pivots back around the pivot axis 102a, in particular during the advancement of the
   helix blank 76a. In the first operating state, the abutment element 98a rests on the
   bending table 82a.
         In the present case, the bending mandrel 80a is driven. The bending mandrel
 0 80a is rotatably mounted about its longitudinal axis 144a. The bending mandrel 80a
   is coupled via a belt 164a to a drive unit, not shown, which in particular further drives
   the bending table 82a. The bending mandrel 80a is replaceable. The bending unit
   78a may be equipped with bending mandrels of different diameters.
         A position of the bending table 82a relative to the abutment element 98a is
 5 variable during the rotation of the bending table 82a around the bending mandrel
   80a.
         The abutment element 98a has a concavely curved abutment surface 100a.
   The abutment surface 100a is curved in the circumferential direction 142a with a
   circular arc shape. Further, the abutment surface 100a is curved in a circular arc
 0 perpendicular to the curvature in the circumferential direction 142a. A radius of this
   curvature perpendicular to the direction of rotation 142a at least substantially
   corresponds to a curvature of the bending region 24a. In the maximum feeding
   position, the last bent bending region 166a bears against the abutment surface 100a,
   which is circularly curved as an arc about the last bent bending region 166a.
25       In a feeding operating condition, in which the feeding of the helix blank 76a
   takes place, the position of the abutment element 98a with respect to the feeding axis
   86 is variable. The abutment element 98a thus moves in the feeding state, in
   particular after the helix blank 76a abuts against the abutment element 98a, i.e. is in
   the maximum feeding position, along the last bent bending region 166a, in the
30 direction of circulation 142a.
         The bending unit 78a is adapted for bending a helix blank with at least one high
   strength steel wire. In the present case, the helix blank 76a can be bent by means of
   the bending unit 78a.

                                              - 22
         The bending unit 78a is adapted for bending the helix blank 76a by more than
   1800 in a single revolution, in particular during each revolution of the bending table
   82a around the bending mandrel 80a. A bending angle is defined by a time of
   pivoting of the bending table 82a about the pivot axis 102a. The bending unit 78a is
 5 adapted to over-bend the helix blank 76a, in particular to compensate for spring-back
   of the helix blank 76a after bending due to its high bending stiffness. The bending
   unit 78a is adapted to provide the bending region 24a with a total angle of exactly
   1800, so that the first helix 12a can be made straight in itself.
         In Figures 14 and 15 a further embodiment of the invention is shown. The
 0 following descriptions and the drawings are essentially limited to the differences
   between the exemplary embodiments, wherein, with regard to identically named
   components, in particular with regard to components having the same reference
   numerals, reference can in principle be made also to the drawings and/or the
   description of the other embodiment, in particular of Figures 1 to 13. In order to
 5 distinguish the embodiments, the letter a has been added as a suffix to reference
   numerals of the embodiment in figures 1 to 13. In the embodiment of Figures 14 and
   15, the letter a is replaced by the letter b.
         Fig. 14 shows a part of a wire netting 10b having a plurality of helices 12b
   braided with each other, at least one helix 12b of which is bent from at least one
 0 longitudinal element 16b and at least one first leg 20b, a second leg 22b and
   comprises at least one first leg 20b, a second leg 22b as well as at least one bending
   region 24b interconnecting the first leg 20b and the second leg 22b. The longitudinal
   element 16b is bent at least essentially without torsion along a path of the first leg
   20b and the second leg 22b. In particular, a twisted state of the longitudinal member
25 16b in the wire netting 12b corresponds to a twisted state of a blank of the
   longitudinal member 16b before it being processed into the wire netting 12b. In the
   present case, the longitudinal member 16b is formed as a wire strand. The
   longitudinal element 16b has at least one wire 18b made of high-strength steel. In the
   present case, the longitudinal element 16b is composed of a plurality of identical
30 wires 18b, which are not shown individually in the figures. In a front view
   perpendicular to a main extension plane of the helix 12b, the first leg 20b extends at
   a first gradient angle 26b with respect to the longitudinal direction 28b of the helix
   12b. In the present case, the first gradient angle 26b is about 45*. The wire netting

                                           - 23
  1Ob of the present case has square meshes.
         Fig. 15 shows a portion of the wire netting 10b in a longitudinal view along a
  longitudinal direction 28b of the helix 12b (see Figure 14). The first leg 20b and the
  second leg 22b have a curved contour. The wire netting 1Ob has bulgy meshes,
5 whereby in particular an impact of objects transversally to the wire netting 1Ob can be
  damped.
        The helix 12b is manufactured by means of a conventional braiding machine
  with a braiding knife, which is not shown. The longitudinal member 16b is rotated in
  the manufacture of the helix 12b about its longitudinal axis to compensate for a
0 torsion occurring during the bending of the longitudinal member 16b by the braiding
  knife.

                                - 24
   Reference numerals
   10 wire netting
 5 12 helix
   14 helix
   16 longitudinal element
   18 wire
   20 leg
 0 22 leg
   24 bending region
   26 gradient angle
   28 longitudinal direction
   30 gradient angle
 5 32 bending region
   54 front direction
   74 bending device
   76 helix blank
   78 bending unit
 0 80 bending mandrel
   82 bending table
   84 feeding unit
   86 feeding axis
   88 feeding direction
25 94 main extension direction
   96 abutment unit
   98 abutment element
   100 abutment surface
   102 rotation axis
30 109 longitudinal axis
   110 longitudinal axis
   112 main extension direction
   114 longitudinal axis

                                 - 25
   118 intersection angle
   140 bending space
   142 circulation direction
   144 longitudinal axis
 5 164 belt
   166 bending region
   200 surface structure
   202 preferential direction
   203 preferential direction
 0 204 longitudinal axis
   206 orienting apparatus
   208 reel
   212 angle
   214 surface structure element
 5 216 surface structure element
   218 surface structure element
   220 main extension direction
   222 manufacturing device
   224 method step
 0 226 method step
   228 rotation axis
   230 unwinding axis
25

                                           - 26
   Claims
   1.    A wire netting, such as a safety net, with a plurality of helices which are
         braided with each other, of which at least one helix is bent from at least one
         single wire, a wire bundle, a wire strand, a wire rope and/or other longitudinal
 5       element with at least one wire, which preferably comprises a high-tensile
         steel, the at least one helix having at least one first leg, at least one second
         leg as well as at least one bending region connecting the first leg and the
         second leg to each other, wherein the longitudinal element is bent at least
         substantially torsion-free in itself along a contour of the first leg and/or of the
 0       second leg.
   2.    The wire netting according to claim 1, wherein the longitudinal element is
         bent, at least substantially without any torsion in itself, along a contour of the
         bending region.
   3.    The wire netting according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a surface structure of the
 5       first leg and/or of the second leg has a preferential direction which extends
         parallel to a main extension direction of the first leg and/or of the second leg.
   4.    The wire netting according to claim 3, wherein the surface structure of the
         first leg and/or of the second leg is free from partial structures extending
         spirally with respect to the main extension direction of the first leg and/or of
20       the second leg.
   5.    The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein, in a
         transverse view, parallel to a main extension plane of the helix and
         perpendicularly to a longitudinal direction of the helix, the bending region at
         least section-wise follows an at least approximately straight course.
25 6.    The wire netting according to claim 5, wherein, in the transverse view, the
         helix follows at least section-wise a stepped contour.

                                        - 27
   7.  The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
       leg and/or the second leg at least section-wise follow/follows a straight
       contour.
   8.  The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
 5     leg runs at least section-wise in a first plane and the second leg extends at
       least section-wise in a second plane that is parallel to the first plane.
   9.  The wire netting according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the wire
       comprises a high-tensile steel and/or a tensile strength of at least
       800 N mm 2.
 o 10. A method for manufacturing a helix for a wire netting, especially for a safety
       net, wherein the helix is bent from at least one single wire, a wire bundle, a
       wire strand, a wire rope and/or other longitudinal element with at least one
       wire, which preferably comprises a high-tensile steel, in such a way that it
       comprises at least one first leg, at least one second leg as well as at least
 5     one bending region connecting the first leg and the second leg to each other,
       wherein the longitudinal element is at least substantially bent, without any
       torsion in itself, along a contour of the first leg and/or of the second leg,
       wherein the longitudinal element is bent by means of a bending device, which
       the longitudinal element is supplied to for bending, wherein during supply the
 o     longitudinal element is rotated about its longitudinal axis.
   11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the longitudinal element passes
       through a rotating orienting apparatus.
   12. The method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the longitudinal element is
       unwound from a co-rotated reel.
25 13. The method according to one of claims 10 to 12, wherein by at least one
       adjustment of a rotation speed of the longitudinal element a torsion of the
       longitudinal element is compensated during bending by the bending device.

                                      - 28
  14. The method according to claim 13, wherein, for bending of the bending
      region, the longitudinal element is rotated at least by a compensating angle,
      which corresponds to an angle between the first leg and the second leg in a
      front view perpendicular to a main extension plane of the helix.
5
                                   Geobrugg AG
               Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                             SPRUSON & FERGUSON

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                                  <U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                        <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                        <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                                      <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270F>
                                   <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>     <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2704><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>
                                  <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2704><U+260E><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                     <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                    <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712>
                                     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>                              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2711>
                                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>            <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
                                           <U+2713><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2718><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2713><U+2706><U+2712>
                            <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>          <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>                 <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                           <U+2704><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>
                                           <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>                        <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                         <U+2702><U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712>                   <U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                                  <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>                <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
                       <U+271D><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                      <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>      <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>                             <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2706>
                           <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>                 <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712>
                             <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>                      <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2716><U+2712>
                <U+271D><U+271D><U+2712>                            <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                            <U+2718><U+260E><U+2712>                      <U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>    <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                                   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+260E>
                            <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2712>
                                      <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2706><U+2712>
                 <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>
                          <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>                   <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                                   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2704>
                                      <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                          <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>                          <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                                <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>                  <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                                   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                          <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>                 <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                               <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>                    <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                            <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2706>
                                  <U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                        <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712>
                              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                            <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>               <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701><U+260E>
                            <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>                     <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                                  <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                              <U+2718><U+2713><U+2712>                   <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                                  <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                            <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2704>
                                        <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>           <U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                        <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                              <U+2718><U+2713><U+2712>
                                              <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                            <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701><U+2701>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                            <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                             <U+271D><U+271D><U+2712>
                       <U+2713><U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>                                  <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                       <U+2713><U+260E><U+260E><U+2712>
                      <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                                              <U+2713><U+2713><U+260E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+260E><U+2718><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                          <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>                                <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                          <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                                           <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2702>
                  <U+2713><U+260E><U+2718><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+2713><U+260E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+260E><U+2713><U+2712>
               <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>                                 <U+2715><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                 <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>         <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>         <U+2704><U+260E><U+2716><U+2712>
                <U+2713><U+260E><U+260E><U+2712>
                              <U+2718><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                        <U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+2712>
                        <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>                                                <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2704>
                                                <U+2713><U+260E><U+260E><U+2712>
                                    <U+2704><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+260E><U+2713><U+2712>
                        <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712>
                                                                   <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
                <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                               <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>                                 <U+2713><U+2713><U+260E><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+260E><U+2718><U+2712>
                                                        <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>                <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701>

               <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                 <U+2704><U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2713><U+2713><U+271D><U+2712>
<removed-apn>                               <U+2713><U+2713><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                       <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                                 <U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                <U+2713><U+2718><U+260E><U+2712>      <U+2713><U+260E><U+2714><U+2712>
                                  <U+2713><U+260E><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                 <U+2713><U+260E><U+2712> <U+2713><U+271D><U+2712> <U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                          <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712>
                                   <U+2704><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712> <U+2702><U+271D><U+2712>      <U+2713><U+2704><U+2713><U+2712>
              <U+2713><U+260E><U+271D><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+2713><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                      <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2701>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                    <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>            <U+2704><U+271D><U+260E><U+2712>              <U+2716><U+271D><U+2712>
                              <U+2716><U+2713><U+2712>              <U+2702><U+271D><U+2712>
                     <U+2702><U+2714><U+2712>
               <U+2714><U+260E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+2704><U+271D><U+271D><U+2712> <U+2714><U+271D><U+2712>
                                      <U+2704><U+2706><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                <U+2714><U+2714><U+2712>
              <U+2704><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2704><U+2714><U+2712><U+2717> <U+2702><U+2706><U+2712>
                                                      <U+2714><U+2706><U+2712><U+2717><U+2713><U+260E><U+271D><U+2712>
                                                       <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270F>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                      <U+2720><U+2721>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                      <U+2720><U+2721>

              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>
                                    <U+2721><U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                          <U+2713><U+271D>
                                                          <U+2713><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                                         <U+2704><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2704><U+2706> <U+2717><U+2704><U+2714>
                                     <U+2713><U+260E>        <U+2713><U+2713>
                                         <U+2713><U+2714>                 <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270F>
                                    <U+2713><U+271D>
                              <U+2713><U+260E>                    <U+2713><U+2713>
                       <U+2704><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2704><U+2706> <U+2717><U+2704><U+2714>
                                                            <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2701>

