                CHARGING APPARATUS AND PORTABLE POWER SUPPLY
A portable power supply is disclosed. The power supply includes a housing for receiving
different kinds of battery for removable mounting therein and comprises spaced-apart
walls, an open top and an access cover for closing the open top and providing access to
the removable battery; a computing processor in electrical communication with the
 removable battery for processing information about the removable battery mounted in
the housing; a display screen disposed on the housing in electrical communication with
the computing processor for displaying messages or images thereon relating to the
battery; a plurality of power sockets mounted on the housing for providing power to
electrical devices; and a plurality of handles disposed in selected walls of the housing to
facilitate lifting of the portable power supply

                                       AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
                           ARK Corporation Pty Ltd
     ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          STANDARD PATENT
 Invention Title: Charging Apparatus and Portable Power Supply
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No <removed-apn> which
itself is a divisional aopplication 2011205034 which claims priority to AU provisional
patent application No 2010903353 filed 27 July 2010. Each of those applications is
herein incorporated by reference in their entireties as if reproduced in full herein.
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to us:

                                                   2
                CHARGING APPARATUS AND PORTABLE POWER SUPPLY
TecbnicaLFieJd
          The present technology relates generally to power supplies, also known as
portable battery boxes which are suitable for housing and charging batteries and/or
providing remote power. In certain applications, lead acid batteries are housed in the
portable battery boxes. Aspects of the present technology relate generally to methods
of monitoring and controlling the charging and discharging of batteries within portable
battery boxes, as well as associated software, hardware, data processing apparatus,
computer readable memories and computer program elements for charging and
discharging the batteries within those boxes.
Backround
           Portable battery boxes which are suitable for deployment of electrical power in
convenient forms and in remote locations are known. In those known portable battery
boxes, batteries are disposed in housings for the protection of the batteries and
 recharged in those housings. The advantages of the battery boxes include that the
boxes protect the batteries themselves, componentry associated with charging and
discharging, and that the housings facilitate ease of handling and reduce potential for
 injury to users.
           However, monitoring the recharging of the batteries disposed in the battery
boxes is inflexible and difficult in known models of portable battery box, in that there is
 little useful information about the charging process indicated. Furthermore, in some
known devices, the charging is ineffective. There may be several reasons for these
difficulties. First, a charging method applied to some types of batteries is not always
effective for other types of batteries, depending on the chemical composition of the
battery and other factors, and if the battery in the box is changed to a different type, the
charging may be ineffective. In addition, in some box designs, access to the battery
terminals is inhibited by some structural member or, on the other hand, the terminals are
 not adequately protected, and thus exposed to users which is dangerous.
           Also, the batteries are heavy and lifting known battery boxes by their lids can
cause deformation of selected areas of the box, which can cause the release of

                                                 3
connecting cleats and clips and the like, which may release the battery from the box or
 release corrosive fluid from the battery into surrounding areas or worse, onto users.
         Known battery boxes also include limitations and in controls and monitoring
devices.
        The present inventors have developed an improved power supply, which may
ameliorate one or more of any abovementioned disadvantages.
Disclosuare Qf Te=b o kv
 In accordance with one aspect of the present technology there is provided a portable
power supply comprising:
        a housing for receiving different kinds of battery for removable mounting therein,
the housing comprising spaced-apart walls, an open top and an access cover for closing
the open top and providing access to the removable battery;
        a computing processor in electrical communication with the removable battery for
processing information about the removable battery mounted in the housing;
        a display screen disposed on the housing in electrical communication with the
computing processor for displaying messages or images thereon relating to the battery;
        a plurality of power sockets mounted on the housing for providing power to
electrical devices; and
        a plurality of handles disposed in selected walls of the housing to facilitate lifting
of the portable power supply.
        Optionally the battery is a lead-acid battery and has construction selected from
the group consisting of: standard lead-acid, calcium, AGM, and gel.
        Optionally the battery is a lithium iron phosphate battery.

                                   3A
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention
   there is provided a portable battery box for housing and
   charging a battery, the portable battery box including:
   a housing including spaced-apart walls for receiving a battery
   for removable mounting therein and a lid for closing the
   housing;
   a charging apparatus for charging the battery;
   a display screen disposed on or in the walls or lid of the
   housing for displaying messages or images thereon relating to
   the battery,
   wherein the messages or images include one or more in the
   group consisting of time remaining to charge completion, time
   remaining to discharge completion, battery charge percentage,
   and
   one or more user input selectors to select for input into a
   processing system a type of battery removably mounted in the
   housing, the messages or images differing depending on the
   battery type input to the processing system, the type of battery
   selected on the basis of its construction.
 In one embodiment the type of battery is selected from the
 group consisting of: standard lead-acid, calcium, AGM, and gel.
  In one embodiment the user input selectors are user input
  buttons on the walls or lid of the housing to control the
  recharging of the battery in the housing.
In one embodiment the portable battery box further includes a
USB port for supplying power to an electronic device.
    In one embodiment the portaable battery box further includes
   a DC-to-AC inverter and a 240V/5OHz or 11 OV/6OHz General
    Power Outlet for supplying power to an electrical device.
    In one embodiment the DC-to-AC inverter is removably
    mounted in the housing.

                                     3B
     In one embodiment the or each General Power Outlet is
     mounted on one or more of the walls or lid so that they are
     recessed therefrom; and one or more access covers is
     provided, each access cover for covering a general power
     outlet so that by actuating the or each access cover the
     general power outlet may be accessed and wherein the
     cover is generally flush with its respective wall.
    In one embodiment the or each access cover extends over
    a portion of the top wall to a portion of an adjacent side wall
    so that the or each access cover is in the form of a gullwing
    -like shell.
       In one embodiment the access covers are hinged and the
       hinge is disposed on the top wall end of the access cover.
  In one embodiment the one or more user input buttons are
  configured to select the battery capacity in Ampere hours for
  input into the processing system.
In one embodiment the portable battery box further includes at
least one DC Anderson plug in electrical connection with the
battery to charge the battery, to power an electrical device or
to charge the battery and power an electrical device.

                                     3C
  In accordance with yet another aspect of the present
  invention there is provided a method of monitoring a charging
 or discharging operation of a battery which in use is
  removably disposed in a portable housing having opposed
 walls having an open top, and a lid for closing the open top,
 the method including the steps of:
  receiving from one or more input selectors a battery type
  having a particular construction, relating to a selected battery
 for charging and/or discharging in the portable housing, into
 one or more computing processors;
  measuring, by one or more computing processors, one or
  more measured battery charging and/or discharging
  parameters;
 estimating one or more estimated charging and/or
 discharging parameters with one or more computing
  processors; and
 displaying, with one or more computing processors, the
  measured and estimated charging and/or discharging
  parameters on a display screen mounted on or in the lid or
 walls of the portable housing, the display screen for
 displaying messages or images thereon relating to the
  measured and estimated charging and/or discharging
  parameters, wherein the measured and estimated charging
 and/or discharging parameters are selected from the group
 consisting of battery voltage, battery charge percentage,
  battery charging current, and battery discharging current.
In one embodiment the estimating step includes consulting a
voltage map for a relevant battery type with one or more
computing processors, each voltage map containing values of
battery charge percentage corresponding to relevant voltage
values for a battery type.
 In one embodiment the estimating step further includes
 calculating charge or discharge time remaining from an
 algorithm which utilises the battery charge percentage values
 from the voltage maps.

                                    3D
      In one embodiment the receiving step further includes
      receiving battery capacity in Ampere hours and the
      estimating step includes estimating the time remaining to
      charge completion or time remaining to discharge
      completion.
   In one embodiment the estimating step includes consulting
  with a computing processor, relevant voltage maps stored
  in a storage portion of the one or more computer
  processors which contains certain values of battery charge
  percentage corresponding to certain voltage values of the
  selected battery type.
  In one embodiment the receiving step is conducted via at
 least one user input button in electrical communication with
 the one or more computing processors.
   In one embodiment the method further includes the steps of
   measuring temperature of a charger and assessing the
   measured temperature against a cutout temperature , and
  stopping charging if the measured temperature exceeds the
  cutout temperature.
    In one embodiment the type of battery received is a lead
  acid battery, selected from the group consisting of: standard
  lead-acid, AGM, Calcium and gel.
In one embodiment the power supply further comprises an
inverter system for providing alternating current from the
battery, the inverter electrically connected to at least one of the
power sockets.

                                   3E
        In one embodiment the handles are recessed in the end walls.
     In one embodiment the handles include apertures to facilitate
     ingress of cooling air from outside the housing into the housing
     for cooling the removable battery.
 In one embodiment the handles include a surface which
 cooperates with a finger such that a ramp is provided to guide a
 finger into a radiused head portion disposed at an upper end of
 the ramp.
   In one embodiment the display screen is a powered panel for
   displaying messages or images thereon relating to the battery
   and the messages or images on the display screen relating to the
   battery are selected from the group consisting of battery type,
   battery voltage, battery charge percentage, time remaining to
   discharge completion, battery capacity in Ampere hours, and
   battery discharging current.
 In one embodiment the portable power supply further comprises a
 user input device including one or more user input buttons for
 selecting the type of battery based on its construction disposed
 within the housing, the display screen electrically connected to the
 user input buttons displaying differing messages or images
 depending on selection of the battery type.
In one embodiment at least one of the power sockets is a USB port for
supplying power to an electronic device
 In one embodiment the portable power supply further comprises a
 DC-to-AC inverter and a 240V/5OHz or 11 OV/6OHz General Power
 Outlet for supplying power to an electrical device.

                                     3F
       In one embodiment the DC-to-AC inverter is removably
       mounted in the housing.
    In one embodiment the or each power outlet, being USB,
   Anderson Plug or GPO or 12V cigarette lighter outlet, is mounted
    on one or more of the walls or lid so that they are recessed
   therefrom.
    In one embodiment, one or more access covers is provided, each
    access cover for covering a general power outlet so that by
    actuating the or each access cover the general power outlet may
    be accessed and wherein the cover is generally flush with its
    respective wall.
    In one embodiment, the or each access cover extends over a
    portion of the top wall to a portion of an adjacent side wall so that
    the or each access cover is in the form of a gullwing-like shell.
   In one embodiment the user input device is configured to receive a
   user selection of battery capacity in Ampere hours.
In one embodiment the computing processor is configured to receive,
from the user input device, a measure of battery capacity in Ampere
hours.
  In one embodiment the computing processor is configured to estimate
  the time remaining to full discharge of the removable battery.
 In one embodiment the computing processor is configured to consult
 relevant voltage maps stored in a storage portion of the computer
 processor which contains certain values of battery charge percentage
 corresponding to certain voltage values of the selected battery type.

                            3G
   In one embodiment the portable power supply further comprises a
   charging apparatus having a processing system for charging the
   removable battery.
In one embodiment the user input device is configured to select data
regarding the construction type of battery from the group consisting of:
standard lead-acid, calcium, AGM, and gel for input into the computing
processor.

                                                 4
          Preferably the main body includes a covering lid which comprises a top wall and
a downwardly-depending skirt, the arrangement being such that the downwardly
depending skirt extends to form a hollow lid shell having a rim at an opening of the
 hollow lid shell to form a lid chamber. Similarly, a hollow base shell is provided, so that
a base chamber is provided having a rim, the chamber being adapted to house a
battery. The lid and base shells may be roughly equal in size, and preferably the lid
shell is about 1/3 the size of the base shell.
         When assembled together the rims of the shells are operatively connected
together so that the hollow lid shell hinges to open, the hinge being mounted on one wall
and at an opposite wall they are fastened together with a clasp to close the main body.
          Preferably the at least one handle is disposed in the hollow base shell side wall,
so that a lifting force is transmitted through the side wall of the base shell when the
battery box is being lifted by the at least one handle. This obviates a separation force
which would be experienced at the clasp if the handle were in the lid.
          Preferably two handles are provided, and each handle of the two is disposed in
end wall portions of the base shell side wall. Preferably the or each handle includes a
surface which corresponds generally to a user's finger which in use is inserted into the
side wall and disposed at a slight angle to the wall. The surface is thus arranged to
 include a base ramp angled upward and inward and a radiused head portion at an upper
end of the ramp to receive an end of a finger and to thus provide finger support.
          Preferably the handles include apertures to allow cooling air from outside the box
 into the hollow base shell and hollow lid shell. Preferably the apertures are disposed in
the radiused head portion of the handle so that water will be inhibited from flowing
through the apertures.
          Preferably the ramp and radiused head portion of the or each handle are inset or
 recessed into the end walls so that an external wall of the handle is substantially or
generally flush with the end wall.
          Preferably the battery box includes a charging apparatus.

                                                 5
          Preferably the covering lid is detachable from the main body. Preferably the
covering lid is stackable within other covering lids to reduce volume in transportation.
Preferably the main body is also stackable within other main bodies to reduce volume in
transportation. Preferably the side walls of the hollow shells taper outwards slightly
towards their respective rims to facilitate stacking.
          In accordance with another aspect of the present technology there is provided a
method of monitoring a charging or discharging operation of a battery which in use is
removably disposed in a portable housing having opposed walls having an open top,
and a lid for closing the open top, the method including the steps of:
          receiving from one or more input selectors a battery type, relating to selected
lead-acid battery for charging and/or discharging in the portable housing, into one or
more computing processors;
          measuring, by one or more computing processors, one or more measured
battery charging and/or discharging parameters;
         estimating one or more estimated charging and/or discharging parameters with
one or more computing processors; and
         displaying, with one or more computing processors, the measured and estimated
charging and/or discharging parameters on a display screen mounted on or in the lid or
walls of the portable housing, the display screen for displaying messages or images
thereon relating to the measured and estimated charging and/or discharging
parameters,
         wherein the measured and estimated charging and/or discharging parameters
are selected from the group consisting of battery voltage, battery charge percentage,
battery charging current, and battery discharging current,
          Preferably the or each electrical access port is mounted in one or more recesses
set in from its respective side, base or top wall. In a preferred embodiment the or each
access cover is a closure suitable to close the one or more recesses. Preferably there
are several recesses and several access covers. Further preferably the or each access
cover includes a seal to seal the recess so as to inhibit water ingress to the electrical
access ports. In some arrangements the seal is disposed on a perimeter of the recess
associated with the wall.
          Preferably the main body includes a covering lid which comprises a top wall and
a downwardly-depending skirt, the arrangement being such that the downwardly
depending skirt extends to form a hollow lid shell having a rim at an opening of the
hollow lid shell to form a lid chamber. Similarly, a hollow base shell is formed, so that a
base chamber is provided having a rim, the chamber being adapted to house a battery.

                                                 6
The lid and base shells may be roughly equal in size, and preferably the lid shell is
about 1/3 the size of the base shell. When assembled together the rims of the shells are
 hinged along one wall and at an opposite wall they are fastened together with a clasp to
close the main body.
         Preferably the electrical access ports are selected from the group consisting of:
an LCD display; a plurality of user input/output keys; a mouse or trackball; an isolation
switch; a USB port; a 6, 12 or 24V DC cigarette lighter / alternative power source slot; a
 11 OV/6OHz or 240V/5OHz General Power Outlet; a 50A Anderson plug slot; and a
plurality of 6, 12, 24V battery posts.
         Preferably the or each access cover extends over a portion of the top wall to a
portion of an adjacent side wall so that the or each access cover is in the form of a
gullwing-like shell. Preferably the access covers are hinged. Preferably the hinge is
disposed on the top wall end of the access cover.
         Preferably a lip or tab which extends from a portion of the access cover is
provided to facilitate operation of the access cover. In a preferred embodiment the lip is
on the opposite end of the access cover to that on which the hinge is mounted.
         The or each access cover may include a window or may be wholly transparent
so as to allow viewing of the control and/or monitoring and/or outlet devices without
opening the or each access cover.
         Preferably a battery is provided in the main body and in use is disposed within
the chamber. Preferably the battery is a lead-acid battery and may be any one of a
suitable kind of lead-acid battery, including conventional wet-type, calcium-calcium (MF),
AGM or gel battery.
 In accordance with yet another aspect of the present technology there is provided a
portable power supply suitable for housing different types of battery, the portable power
supply comprising:
         a housing having an open top for receiving a battery;
         a lid for closing the open top;
         an inverter including a system for providing alternating current from the battery;
and
         a display screen disposed on or in the lid or walls of the housing, the display
screen for displaying messages or images thereon relating to the battery;
         wherein the messages or images on the display screen are selected from the
group consisting of battery type, battery voltage, battery charge percentage, time
 remaining to discharge completion, battery capacity in Ampere hours, and battery
discharging current; and

                                                 7
         one or more user input buttons for selecting the type of battery disposed within
the housing, the display screen displaying differing messages or images depending on
selection of the battery type.
         In one embodiment the present technology provides a portable battery box
suitable for recharging and housing a battery, the battery box comprising:
         a main body for housing a 12v or 24V battery, the main body including a base
wall, a top wall and at least one side wall extending between the base and top walls;
         a charging apparatus for charging a 12V or 24V battery;
         an inverter; and
         a general power outlet connected to the inverter for AC output to power
household devices.
         Preferably the main body includes a covering lid which comprises a top wall and
a downwardly-depending skirt, the arrangement being such that the downwardly
depending skirt extends to form a hollow lid shell having a rim at an opening of the
hollow lid shell to form a lid chamber. Similarly, a hollow base shell is formed, so that a
base chamber is provided having a rim, the chamber being adapted to house a battery.
The lid and base shells may be roughly equal in size, and preferably the lid shell is
about 1/3 the size of the base shell.
         When assembled together the rims of the shells are hinged along one wall and at
an opposite wall they are fastened together with a clasp to close the main body.
         Preferably the battery is removable by opening the covering lid and removing the
battery from the chamber in the hollow base shell.
         Preferably the inverter is removably mounted in the portable battery box.
         In one embodiment the present technology provides a method of monitoring a
charging or discharging operation of a battery in use disposed in a portable battery box
according to other aspects of the present technology, the method including the steps of:
         measuring first charging and/or discharging parameters at selected time
intervals;
         estimating selected other charging parameters at selected time intervals;
         displaying the charging or discharging parameters on a display screen
associated with the battery box, the charging or discharging parameters being selected
from the group consisting of: battery voltage; charging status; time to charge completion;
time to discharge completion; condition of the battery; battery charging current; battery
discharge current.

                                                8
        The display may be activated by receiving input from a user interface. Preferably
the user interface is an information key adapted to be depressed to activate. Preferably
the display is activated by a charge input at the external power socket, or when a device
is otherwise plugged into one of the electrical access ports.
        In one embodiment, the present technology provides a data processing
apparatus for charging a battery, the data processing apparatus including:
        a central processing unit (CPU);
        a memory operatively connected to the CPU, the memory containing a program
adapted to be executed by the CPU, wherein the CPU and memory are operatively
adapted to receive an input voltage value of a battery in use disposed in the battery box
and estimate a battery capacity value associated with the battery and send the capacity
value to a display screen for display to a user. In one embodiment, the present
technology provides a computer program element comprising a computer program code
to make a programmable device:
        measure and store a voltage of a battery in use disposed in a battery box;
        estimate a battery capacity value associated with the battery based on the
measured battery voltage; and
        display the battery capacity value on a display screen.
        Preferably the estimate step includes the step of consulting reference maps
which contain values of charge capacity corresponding to selected voltage values.
        Preferably the estimate step also includes calculating time remaining from an
algorithm which utilises the charge capacity from the reference maps.
        In one embodiment, the present technology provides a computer readable
memory encoded with data representing a programmable device comprising:
        means for receiving a battery voltage value measured across battery terminals of
a battery in use disposed within a battery box in accordance with other aspects of the
present technology;
        means for estimating the battery capacity based on the measured voltage value;
and
        means for sending a display signal to a display so as to display the battery
capacity.
        Preferably the display screen is an LCD display screen.
        Preferably the memory is configured to log history of charge and discharge.

                                                 9
          Preferably the method includes the step of remembering the type of lead acid
battery disposed in the portable battery box for a selected period of time.
          In one embodiment there is provided a portable battery box suitable for housing
and charging a battery, the battery box comprising a main body for housing a lead acid
battery, the main body including a base wall, a top wall and at least one side wall
extending between the base and top walls; and a plurality of different electrical output
ports.
          In one embodiment there is provided a portable battery box suitable for housing
and charging a removable battery including a display screen for the purpose of
monitoring the charging of the battery. Throughout this specification, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
         Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
context for the present technology. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all
of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in
the field relevant to the present technology as it existed in Australia before the priority
date of the technology disclosed in this specification.
         In order that the present technology may be more clearly understood, preferred
embodiments will be described with reference to the following drawings and examples.
Brief Decrntiro.Qftbe.DamnoL
         Figure 1 shows an isometric view of a portable battery box suitable for charging
and portably housing a battery in a closed position in accordance with a preferred
embodiment of the present technology, showing top, front and right end walls.
         Figure 2 shows another isometric view of the portable battery box of Figure 1 in a
closed position showing top, front and left end walls;
          Figure 3 is an isometric view of the portable battery box of Figure 1 showing
access covers and lid in an opened position;
          Figure 4 is another isometric view of the portable battery box of Figure 1 from a
different viewing angle showing the access covers and lid in an open position;

                                                  10
          Figure 5 is a detail view of a user interface and display;
          Figure 6 is a plan view of the portable battery box of Figure 1;
          Figure 7 is a right end elevation view of the portable battery box of Figure 1;
          Figure 8 is a view of the display of Figure 5 showing a charging display
message;
          Figure 9 is a view of the display of Figure 5 showing a discharging display
message;
          Figure 10 is a flowchart schematic connection diagram of the charging apparatus
         of Figure 1;
          Figure 11 shows two examples of charge maps which are used by the portable
          battery box of preferred embodiments of the present technology; and
          Figure 12 shows a preferred embodiment of a method of monitoring a battery in
         a battery box.
          Detaied Drintion ofth.e PreferLestEmbadmerts
         Referring to the drawings there is shown a portable battery box generally
indicated at 10 and suitable for charging and housing a battery 14 when it is disposed
within the battery box 10. The portable battery box 10 includes a main body 9
comprising a hollow base shell 12 which itself includes a base wall 16, opposed end
walls 17 and 19, and opposed front and back walls 13 and 15, the opposed walls
extending from the base wall 16 to a hollow base shell rim 11 which provides an opening
21 through which the battery can be placed so as to be disposed within a hollow
chamber 23 for storage within the base shell 12.
         The main body 9 includes a covering lid 20 which is in the form of a hollow lid
shell 21 and includes a top wall 18 and a skirt depending therefrom, the skirt having
opposed end walls 117, 119 and opposed front and back walls 113 and 115. The lid
shell is operatively connected to open and close via a hinge on a back of rims 11 and
111. The opposed walls extend towards a lid rim 111 which, when the lid 20 is in a
closed position, abuts the hollow base shell rim 11. The lid 20 is adapted to receive and
mount control and monitoring electronic devices so as to facilitate their protection from
water ingress. The lid shell also includes an interior panel 23 in order to provide
structural support and to further cover battery charge and control electronics from water
and other fluid ingress thereto.
         The main body 9 also includes a fastener in the form of a clasp or latch 30 so as
to fasten the hollow base shell rim 11 and the hollow lid rim 111 to one another when the

                                                 ii
shells are in a closed position. The clasp 30 is disposed along a front wall of the two
 rims at an intermediate position.
          Electrical access ports 40 are provided and are operatively connected to the
battery so as to control the charging or discharging of the battery and/or monitor
selected parameters of the battery 14 or provide power to or from the battery. The
electrical access ports 40 are mounted so as to be disposed adjacent one or more of the
top, side, or end walls of the lid shell 21 and are recessed therefrom. In preferred
embodiments at least an operational or control or user interface portion of the electrical
access ports 40 is recessed from one of the walls. The electrical access ports 40 are
 mounted so as to be disposed within a recess set in from a wall.
         The electrical access ports 40 include an LCD display 41, a plurality of user input
 keys or a mouse or trackball 42, an isolation switch 43, a plurality of USB slots 44, an
external power supply socket 25, a DC cigarette lighter/alternative power source 45, a
240V or 11 OV AC General Power Outlet (GPO) 46, a 50A Anderson plug 47 and a pair
of DC battery posts (6, 12 or 24V) 48.
         The DC battery posts 48 are disposed at a left-hand end of the lid shell 21 to
facilitate ease of connection and access.
         The LCD Display 41, user input keys 42, cigarette lighter sockets 45 and USB
slots 44 are arranged along a front, top wall of the lid shell 21 for ease of user operation.
         The hollow lid shell includes access covers 50, 51,52 in order to cover the
electrical access ports 40. The access covers 50, 51, 52 extend from the top wall to an
adjacent side or end wall so that each forms a gullwing- or similar other curved shape
and are movable from a closed position (shown in at least Figure 1) to an open position
 (shown in at least Figure 4). When the access cover 50 is in the closed position the
electrical access ports 40 are substantially sealed and substantially protected from
damage and inadvertent operation, for example, when packed in tightly in a boot or
trunk of a vehicle with other items. The seal may be disposed on the cover or on the
wall which the cover abuts when in the closed position.
         When the access cover 50, 51, 52 is in the open position the electrical access
ports 40 may be accessed and actuated.
         The access covers 50, 51,52 include hinges 53 and extend from the top wall 18
to a depending wall (113, 115, 117, or 119). The hinges 53 are disposed at the top wall
end. A detent is provided to hold the access cover 50, 51,52 in the open position and

                                                  12
the hinges naturally tend to return the access covers to a closed position under the
 influence of gravity once a user releases them from the detent hold.
        The access covers 50, 51,52 may include a window or may be wholly translucent
or transparent for ease of viewing the electrical access ports 40.
         The hollow base shell 12 includes handles 70 which are disposed in the walls 17
and 19 of the base shell 12 so that when lifting the battery box 10, the lifting forces are
taken substantially in a plane which is substantially parallel to the walls of the hollow
base shell and not through the lid shell 21 and clasp 30. The handles 70 are integrated
with the wall, in that they are recessed so that at least a face wall portion of the handle
70 is substantially flush with the wall 17 or 19.
         The handles 70 include apertures 71 to facilitate cooling air from outside the
battery box 12 into the chamber 23 for cooling the battery 14 and the electrical access
ports 40. The handles include a surface which cooperates with a finger such that a
 ramp is provided to guide a finger into a radiused head portion disposed at an upper end
of the ramp, the arrangement including a slight overhang. The apertures 71 are is
disposed in an upper portion of the radiused overhang so that water may be inhibited
from ingress to the chamber 23 through the apertures.
         A cooling fan 60 is provided to cool the battery 14 and/or its electrical access
ports 40. The cooling fan 60 is mounted in the lid left-hand wall 117. The fan 60 in
operation, draws air in from the outside through the handle apertures and out through
the lid or the other way around, depending on conditions.
         The hollow lid shell 21 and hollow base shell 12 are adapted to be stackable
within other lid shells and base shells to reduce volume during transport. The walls of
the shells may flare or taper outwards to facilitate stacking.
         Further control devices provided include an inverter and a battery charging unit
 (not shown). The battery charging unit may be powered from a 1 IOv or 240v AC power
source, a 12v or 24V DC power source or another suitable power source. The inverter
 may be removably mounted in the battery box. These devices and the other control
devices generally are mounted in the lid portion 20 so as to inhibit water ingress to their
componentry and to facilitate access thereto by users.
         The battery 14 is removably held in place when disposed in the chamber 23 by a
 hook and loop strap fastener arrangement which when deployed extends across an
 upper face of the battery 14.

                                                 13
        The portable battery box 10 also includes the charging apparatus which
comprises a processing system for charging and conditioning the battery 14. Any
suitable form of processing system may be used. For example, the processing system
includes at least a processor, a memory, one or more input/output devices, such as for
example data ports, other device input port or sensor port, and/or user input buttons 42
and display 41, all coupled together via a bus or other coupling device(s).
        Accordingly it will be appreciated that the processing system may be formed from
any suitable processing system, such as for example a suitably programmed PC, PCB,
PLC, internet terminal, laptop, hand held PC or the like which is typically operating
applications software to enable processing, data transfer and in some cases web
browsing.
        Among other things, the memory stores two reference voltage maps - a first
map, being a charging map, and a second map, being a discharging map. The
processor is caused by the software to consult these maps from time to time so as to
assess the condition of the battery and to display that battery condition during charging
and/or discharging on the display 41. Example charge maps are shown in Figure 11
and comprise an array of battery condition percentage values which correspond to
selected voltage values. The charge maps thus indicate to the processor the battery
capacity level expressed as a percentage, when the processor has received a battery
charge value. The processor is then caused to display the percentage capacity of the
battery. The processor also is caused to calculate the time expected until the battery is
fully charged or discharged, from the capacity information and from other data it is able
to receive, such as the current draw or current input, (or a net current draw or net
current input, if current is being both drawn and input). The algorithm for the
calculations is described hereinafter.
         Preferably a PCB will be used to process the above information and charge and
condition the battery 14.
         User input buttons or keys 42 include: Up Button 61; Down Button 62; "OK"
Button 63; Information button 64.
        Schematic connections are shown in Figure 10 and which show how the PCB
connects with other elements of the battery box. That is, The AC mains are shown at 87
which connect to a switch mode power supply 90 and the external power supply socket
25. The socket 25 is connected to a processor in the form of a PCB 89. The PCB 89 is
connected to user interfaces which are in the form of information button 64 and "OK"
button 63 and an LCD display 41. A switch/mode button 84 is an input to the processor

                                                 14
89. Outputs from the processor are in the form of USB port 87. Outputs from the
battery 14, also connected to the processor 89 are an inverter 83 and 240V power outlet
81, an Anderson outlet 47 through an isolation switch 96, and further 12V cigarette
 lighter outlets 45.
         EXAMPLE
          In operation the processing system controls the charging and conditioning of the
battery and monitors and displays the charge information for users in accordance with
the description herein and shown in Figure 12.
          To charge, a plug from an external power supply is inserted into the external
power supply socket 25 for charging. The external power supply expects 24V and 6A
 DC when in use.
          The processor begins in a ready state and waits for charge input from the
external power supply socket 25 or a user input key 42.
          A sensor in the processing system detects the presence of a charging voltage at
the external power socket. The processor may cause the display 41 to read a welcome
 message: "Welcome to the ARK Smart Powerpack. Please select battery type and
press OK" [or similar].
          The processor will cause the display to request the input of a battery type, by
showing the following message or one like it:
                  Standard flood-type Lead Acid Battery
                  Gel Battery
                  Calcium Battery
                  AGM Battery
          The processor waits until the user has toggled through the above list of battery
types using the up/down buttons 61/62 until the selected battery type is highlighted and
then waits for the user to press OK to confirm the battery type.
          The processor then requests that the battery size (in terms of Ah) is then input by
the user or selected from a list which is caused to be displayed on the display 41. This
quantity may then be used in a calculation by the software to assess battery charge
 remaining as described herein.
          For example, if Gel battery is selected, the processor will cause the display to
 read: "Gel Battery selected. Charging commenced" [or similar].

                                                  15
        The processor then causes the charging apparatus to commence a selected
specific charging program for that battery type by introducing a selected amount of
charge from the external power supply socket 25 to the battery terminals in a selected
manner in accordance with a selected charging cycle programmed into the processing
system. The charging programs are described below.
         During charging the processor will cause the screen to display the message on
display 41 shown in Figure 8. The processor is caused to update the display 41 after a
selected time period has elapsed, which in preferred embodiments is every 15 minutes.
        The message caused to be displayed on the display 41 changes depending on
the selected charging cycle which as discussed above depends on the type of battery
selected.
        Chain
         If a plug is inserted into the external power supply socket 25 the software will
recognize that it should switch to charging mode, and will select one appropriate
charging cycle, so as to function as set out below. The processor will measure and
receive the battery voltage and then will be caused to select from a charge, conditioning
or Bulk charging cycle accordingly, as is known to a person skilled in the art.
         During charging the processing system causes the display 41 to display up to
four qualities during charging - selected from, among other things, charging current
(expressed in Amperes), discharge current (expressed in Amperes), cycle type, battery
condition, voltage, and time remaining to full charge or full discharge.
         For example, during a Charge Cycle, which is until the battery reaches 12.5V,
        the following qualities are caused to be displayed:
         (a) Charge Cycle
         (b) Battery condition or battery charge percentage (State of Charge) expressed
as a percentage of full (minor units in 1% increments)
         (c) Battery Voltage expressed in units of Volts, (minor units in 0.1V increments)
and
         (d) Number of hours to full charge or discharge expressed in hours
        The information button is the same as the on/off button - holding it down for an
extended time will actuate the system, while touching the information button briefly will
force a test.
Note: Flours are expressed in 0.5 hr increments

                                                  16
          During Charge cycle, if battery does not reach 12.5 voltage after 25 hours the
processor will cause the display to read a message such as for example 'Alarm. Faulty
battery."
         During a Boosting cycle wherein the processor maintains a constant voltage to
the battery terminals for a period of 5 hours the processor causes the display 41 to
display the following properties:
          (a) Boosting Cycle
          (b) Battery condition or battery charge percentage (State of Charge) expressed
as a percentage of fully charged
          (c) Battery Voltage expressed in volts
          (d) number of hours to go before fully charged
          If battery fails to reach approximately 12.5V after 25 hours the processor will
cause the display to read an alert message such as for example "Alarm. Faulty Battery"
and then will cause the charger to commence a charging cycle known as a Conditioning
cycle.
          During a Conditioning cycle wherein the processor causes the battery to charge
by maintaining constant voltage to the battery terminals at a current of approx 0.1 A the
processor causes the display to display the following qualities:
          (a) Conditioning (float) Cycle
          (b) Battery condition expressed as a percentage of fully charged
          (c) Battery Voltage expressed in Volts
 Note: this cycle will maintain the constant battery voltage for 500 hours
         Testing
          During charging, the processor is caused by the software, at selected time
 intervals, preferably 15 minutes, to stop charging the battery and rest the battery for a
 rest period. The rest period is for approximately 20 seconds. The processor, at the end
of the 20-second rest period, is caused to detect the voltage across the terminals of the
battery 14. The processor is then caused to compare that measured voltage value to a
 reference voltage stored in the charging map. The reference voltage corresponds with a
figure on the charging map which is a percentage charge in the battery and the
processor is caused to display that percentage charge on the display 41.
         The processor is caused to select the charge map based on a net current flow
value. That is, the processor is caused to measure the current flow in through the
external power socket and the current flow out through the other ports or battery outlet,

                                                  17
and makes a decision as to which charging map to consult, based on the net current
flow.
         The charging map and the discharging map are different to reflect that the
battery capacities under charge differ under charge and discharge so this distinction is
preferred to be made so the calculation is more accurate. For example, a battery with
90% charge might correspond to 12.6V under discharge conditions but a battery with
90% charge might correspond to 13.6V under charge conditions. Differing batteries
 have different charge maps.
         The time until full charge is calculated using the quantities of:
         a) battery capacity value from the reference map
         b) the total battery capacity when full
         c) current flow in
         in accordance with the equation below:
                                      %churgem Ahcapacily
          Timeremaining (hrs)= I             g
                                     Currentnow,
         That is:
         Timeremaining = number of hours remaining until full discharge or charge
         %charge = battery capacity remaining (battery charge percentage or State of
Charge), taken from charge map
         Ahcapacity = battery capacity when full, expressed in Ampere hours
         Currentnow = net current to the battery ie charge current - strap current (flowing
from the battery).
         A similar equation is utilised for calculating time to discharge.
         In between the 15-minute scheduled tests, the software receives current flow
(Ampere) information at more frequent intervals from ammeters disposed to measure
input current and output current and updates the display to display charge remaining
percentage estimate figures.
         Default mode for the charging processor system is discharge mode. When
power is detected at the external power supply socket 25, the unit will commence
charging, however, if there is a net outflow of charge, the display may show a time to

                                                 18
discharge. That is, during net discharging the processor will recognize that the battery is
 in net discharging mode and will display a discharge message on the display 41 which is
shown on Figure 9.
         Also, when the information button is pressed during discharging i.e. an appliance
 is connected though one of the outlets, such as the USB port, or GPO or Anderson port
or DC battery posts, the processor will cause the display 41 to show:
          (a) battery condition (battery charge percentage or State of Charge) expressed
as a percentage of fully charged
          (b) Battery Voltage expressed in volts
          (c) Number of hours at the present discharge rate remaining before the battery is
fully discharged.
 Unlike charging, the 15 minute rest stops are not caused to occur in net discharge
mode. The processor is caused to constantly monitor (continuously, or every few
seconds or milliseconds) the battery charge across the terminals while the battery 14 is
discharging. The battery voltage measurement is compared with the discharge
 reference map.
         A thermocouple is provided and connected to the processing apparatus. If the
 internal temperature of the box exceeds a selected temperature the processor will cause
the display to read warmingg - overtemperature" [or similar] and to sound a buzzer.
          If the wires are connected to the wrong terminals the screen will read " wires
connected to wrong battery terminals, reverse polarity to commence charging". A buzzer
sounds a warning.
         The processing apparatus stores the selected battery type in its memory until
battery is disconnected so that that information does not have to be input again by a
 user unless other circumstances dictate its input again.
         Charging and Discharging
         A useful feature of preferred embodiments of the present technology is that the
software and processor can calculate and cause the display to display the net charging
 rate or net discharging rate of the battery 14 if the battery is being charged and
discharged simultaneously. That is, if, say, a light or a radio is being used, say, by being
plugged into the GPO, and the battery is being charged at the same time, by use of the
external power supply socket 25, then the net charging or discharging rate is calculated
by the processor and then displayed on the display 41. The software decides in this
case to use an appropriate charge map depending on the net charge or discharge rate.

                                                  19
 Depending on the net charge or discharge rate, there may be a rest period as described
 hereinabove during which the battery voltage is measured so as to assist with capacity
 calculations.
          It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
 modifications may be made to the technology as shown in the specific embodiments
 without departing from the spirit or scope of the technology as broadly described. The
 present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and
 not restrictive.
Battery Capacity and State of Charge (SoC)
It is to be understood that during the discussion in the present
specification of
battery capacity, that there is a distinction which is naturally made in
the mind of the skilled person between rated battery capacity and
battery capacity remaining, which is expressed as a percentage, and
is known as the state of charge (SoC). There are times in this
specification when one of those meanings will naturally present itself
to the skilled person reading this specification, and times when the
other one will be suggested. For example, the operation of certain
embodiments of the new apparatus described herein, requires that
the battery capacity of a battery be input to a computing processor
at the configuration or setup stage of the apparatus. There are many
other times after that step where battery capacity is estimated, and
that estimation step is clearly enough referring to battery capacity
remaining, which is considered to be battery charge percentage, or
State of Charge.

                                                20
The claims defining the present invention are as follows:
 1.     A portable power supply comprising:
        a housing for receiving different kinds of battery for removable mounting therein,
the housing comprising spaced-apart walls, an open top and an access cover for closing
the open top and providing access to the removable battery;
        a computing processor in electrical communication with the removable battery for
processing information about the removable battery mounted in the housing;
        a display screen disposed on the housing in electrical communication with the
computing processor for displaying messages or images thereon relating to the battery;
        a plurality of power sockets mounted on the housing for providing power to
electrical devices; and
        a plurality of handles disposed in selected walls of the housing to facilitate lifting
of the portable power supply.
2. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 1 further comprising an inverter
system for providing alternating current from the battery, the inverter electrically
connected to at least one of the power sockets.
3. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 1 or 2 wherein the handles are
 recessed in the end walls.
4. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the
 handles include apertures to facilitate ingress of cooling air from outside the housing into
the housing for cooling the removable battery.
5. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the
 handles include a surface which cooperates with a finger such that a ramp is provided to
guide a finger into a radiused head portion disposed at an upper end of the ramp.

                                               21
6. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the
display screen is a powered panel for displaying messages or images thereon relating to
the battery and the messages or images on the display screen relating to the battery are
selected from the group consisting of battery type, battery voltage, battery charge
percentage, time remaining to discharge completion, battery capacity in Ampere hours,
and battery discharging current.
7. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 6 further
comprising a user input device including one or more user input buttons for selecting the
type of battery based on its construction disposed within the housing, the display screen
electrically connected to the user input buttons displaying differing messages or images
depending on selection of the battery type.
8. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein at
 least one of the power sockets is a USB port for supplying power to an electronic device.
9. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 8 further
comprising a DC-to-AC inverter and a 240V/5OHz or 11 OV/6OHz General Power Outlet
for supplying power to an electrical device.
 10. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 9 wherein the DC-to-AC inverter
 is removably mounted in the housing.
 11. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 9 or 10 wherein the or each
General Power Outlet is mounted on one or more of the walls or lid so that they are
 recessed therefrom; and
         one or more access covers is provided, each access cover for covering a
general power outlet so that by actuating the or each access cover the general power
outlet may be accessed and wherein the cover is generally flush with its respective wall.

                                               22
 12. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 11 wherein the or each access
cover extends over a portion of the top wall to a portion of an adjacent side wall so that
the or each access cover is in the form of a gullwing-like shell.
 13. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 11 or 12 wherein the access
covers are hinged and the hinge is disposed on the top wall end of the access cover.
 14. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 7 to 13 wherein the
 user input device is configured to receive a user selection of battery capacity in Ampere
 hours.
 15. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 7 to 14 wherein the
computing processor is configured to receive, from the user input device, a measure of
battery capacity in Ampere hours.
 16. The portable power supply in accordance with claim 15 wherein the computing
processor is configured to estimate the time remaining to full discharge of the removable
battery.
 17.The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the
computing processor is configured to consult relevant voltage maps stored in a storage
portion of the computer processor which contains certain values of battery charge
percentage corresponding to certain voltage values of the selected battery type.
 18. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 17 further
 including a temperature sensor associated with the housing, and wherein the computing
processor is configured to receive input from the temperature sensor to assess the
 measured temperature against a cutout temperature, so as to inhibit discharging if the
 measured temperature exceeds the cutout temperature.

                                                23
 19. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 18 further
comprising a charging apparatus having a processing system for charging the
 removable battery.
20. The portable power supply in accordance with any one of claims 7 to 19 wherein the
 user input device is configured to select data regarding the construction type of battery
from the group consisting of: standard lead-acid, calcium, AGM, and gel for input into
the computing processor.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                <U+271E>
                <U+271F>
                <U+271E>
                <U+2720>

<removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                    <U+2720>
                    <U+2721>
                    <U+261B>
                    <U+2720>
             <U+271E>
             <U+271F>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  <U+260E>
                  <U+2706>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2702>
                      <U+2704>
<U+271E>
<U+271D>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701>
    <U+2721><U+2720>

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2702>
<U+2704>
<U+260E>
                        <U+2720>
<U+2706>
                        <U+2721>
                        <U+261B>
<U+271D>
                        <U+261E>
<U+271E>
<U+271F>
    <U+2701>

<removed-apn>         <removed-date>
         <U+271E><U+271F>
                           <U+271D>
                      <U+261E><U+270C>
                      <U+270D>
              <U+2720><U+2721>
  <U+261B>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721>                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721>                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-date>
                <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>
                          <U+2720><U+2720>
                          <U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                          <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713>

<removed-date>
                                           <U+2701> <U+2702>
                     <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
               <U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>                <U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
               <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+270E><U+2712>                 <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270E><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2714><U+2712>               <U+2713><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2713><U+2712>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>               <U+2715><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2714><U+2712>
              <U+2714><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2713><U+2712>               <U+2714><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2716><U+2712>
              <U+2717><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2716><U+2712>               <U+2717><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270D>              <U+270E><U+2715><U+2712>                <U+2716><U+270C><U+270D>                 <U+270E><U+2713><U+2712>
              <U+2718><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2713><U+2712>               <U+2718><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2713><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2714><U+2712>               <U+2711><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2714><U+2712>
              <U+2719><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2716><U+2712>               <U+2719><U+270C><U+270D>                <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2716><U+2712>
              <U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D>            <U+270E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>               <U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D>               <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                                      <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2725>

<removed-date>
               <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701>
                          <U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2706><U+260E>
                          <U+271D><U+271E>
                          <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F>

