                                           ABSTRACT
  The present invention generally relates to compositions and methods for delivering a vaccine.
  The compositions and methods disclosed herein are particularly useful in making
  prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines.
5

                           VACCINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS
                      USING YEAST CELL WALL PARTICLES
[0001]    The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2015227226, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]    The present invention generally relates to compositions comprising yeast cell wall
particles and methods for delivering a vaccine. The compositions and methods disclosed
herein are particularly useful in making prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     A vaccine is a biological material or preparation that induces an immunologically
mediated resistance to certain diseases upon administration to a subject. Vaccines have been
widely used for the past 200 years in fighting against infectious diseases and non-infectious
diseases.
[0003]    Vaccines comprise an immunogen, which is an antigen that is capable of inducing
humoral and/or cell-mediated immune response of the subject. Antigen presenting cells,
including macrophages and other cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system actively
phagocytose antigen particles and play a central role in the immune response. Macrophages
are cells within the tissues that are derived from monocytes. These monocytes/macrophages
phagocytose microbes are then digested to smaller antigenic portions in the
lysosome/phagosome. The resultant antigens are cycled back to the surface for presentation
to the humoral and cellular arms of the immune system. Accordingly,
monocytes/macrophages are of particular interest because they play an important role in both
nonspecific and specific defenses in the host against pathogens.
[0004]    Dendritic cells are also antigen presenting cells that express MHC class I and class
II molecules. In addition to the conventional dendritic cells, dermal dendritic cells are
important members of the skin immune system. This is because dermal dendritic cells bear
high amounts of MHC class II molecules and therefore can serve as very potent antigen
presenting cells.
                                                 -1-

   WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
[0005]    An ideal vaccine mimics the rapid uptake and transfer of pathogenic structures
without actually establishing an infection and without causing suppression of the MHC class
I pathway.
[0006]    Recently, many studies have focused on targeted delivery of biological materials to
a cell of monocytic origin to improve therapeutic effects of the biological materials. It was
reported that many vehicles, including microspheres/microparticles, liposomes, nanoparticles,
dendrimers, niosomes, and carbon nanotubes could be used for this purpose. It is desirable to
achieve sustained delivery, extended duration of action, reduced dose and adverse side
effects, and improved patient compliance with this new delivery approach. Jain et al., Expert
Opin. Drug Deliv. 10(3): 353-367 (2013).
[0007]    Yeast cell wall particles became one of the preferred delivery vehicles because of
the hollow, porous microsphere structure formed by the glucan shell derived from a natural
source, yeast. Soto et al., JournalofDrug Delivery 2012 (2011). Yeast cell wall particles
were used in delivering various substances, such as nucleic acids, proteins, and imaging
reporters. See, for example, Bioconjug. Chem. 19(4): 840-848 (2008); and Figueiredo et al.,
Chemical Communications47: 10635-10637 (2011).
[0008]    There remains a need in the art to improve immunization by efficiently delivering
vaccines comprising exogenous proteins, epitopes, antigens, peptides, and/or nucleic acids for
MHC presentation with only a very low amount of exogenous material. In addition, there is a
need in the art to provide yeast cell wall particles for delivering biological materials to
improve delivery efficiency, and to reduce the amount of biological materials to achieve the
same or increased level of efficacy that targets cells of monocytic origin. The present
invention satisfies this need.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0009]    In one aspect, the present invention relate to a composition for delivering a vaccine,
comprising (i) a particle and (ii) an exogenous biological material such as a protein or a
fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a combination thereof, loaded
                                                 2

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
within the particle. In specific embodiments, the vaccine comprises an antigen that induces
an immune response upon administration to a subject. Preferably, the antigen or a fragment
thereof is ultimately presented on a class I MHC molecule or a class II MHC molecule.
[0010]    In some embodiments, the protein or fragment thereof, or nucleic acid is selected
from the group consisting of a protein, a peptide, an epitope, an antigen, DNA, RNA, cDNA,
and an immunogenic fragment or a subunit thereof. In other embodiments, the vaccine is a
live vaccine, a killed vaccine, or an attenuated vaccine. In yet other embodiments, the
vaccine is a recombinant vaccine.
[0011]    In some embodiments, the particle is a digestable or biodegradable particle.
Particles suitable for this invention are either synthetic or from a natural source, having a
hollow inside or a porous structure. Exemplary particles include yeast cell wall particles.
[0012]    In some embodiments, the loaded particle is incubated with an isolated dendritic cell
for about 5 minutes, about 10 minutes, about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 25 minutes,
about 30 minutes, about 35 minutes, about 40 minutes, about 45 minutes, about 50 minutes,
about 55 minutes, or about 1 hour, prior to administration. Preferably, the dendritic cell is an
immature cell that has been isolated for no more than 8 days. In other embodiments, the
loaded particle is administered without prior incubation with a dendritic cell population.
[0013]    In some embodiments, the composition of the present invention further comprises
one or more adjuvants, excipients, and/or preservatives. It is within the purview of one of
ordinary skill in the art to select suitable adjuvants, excipients and/or preservatives for a
particular vaccine.
[0014]    In a preferred embodiment, a small amount of one or more immune response
enhancing adjuvants is added to the composition. The addition of one or more adjuvants
increases the immunogenic effects of the vaccine. Commonly used adjuvants include but are
not limited to proteins, peptides, nucleic acids and carbohydrates. Exemplary adjuvants
include but are not limited to monophosphoryl lipid A, CpG ologonucleotides (such as CpG
DNA), Poly I:C, Poly ICLC, potent MHC II epitope peptides, beta glucan, and dendritic cell
stimulating cytokines such as IL-12 and IFN-y, as well as DC maturing cytokines such as IL
                                                  3

   WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
4 and GM-CSF. Suitable adjuvants are those molecules known to mature DC and interact
with receptors on dendritic cells in order to activate dendritic cells and further stimulate a
more robust generation of T cells, such as CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.
[0015]    In one embodiment, the amount of one or more immune response enhancing
adjuvants is at least about 10 ng, at least about 50 ng, at least about 100 ng, at least about 200
ng, at least about 300 ng, at least about 400 ng, at least about 500 ng, at least about 600 ng, at
least about 700 ng, at least about 800 ng, at least about 900 ng, at least about 1 gg, at least
about 5 gg, at least about 10 gg, at least about 15 gg, at least about 20 gg, at least about 25
gg, at least about 30 gg, at least about 35 gg, at least about 40 gg, at least about 45 gg, at
least about 50 gg, at least about 60 gg, at least about 70 gg, at least about 80 gg, at least
about 80 gg, at least about 90 gg, or at least about 100 gg. In one embodiment, the amount
of adjuvant represents between 1 -10% of the composition. The amount of adjuvant is
sufficient to stimulate receptors, such as the toll-like receptor, on the dendritic cell.
[0016]    In a related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for efficient delivery of
a vaccine to a subject comprising directly administering to the dermis of the subject a
composition comprising (i) a particle and (ii) an exogenous protein or a fragment thereof,
nucleic acid, or a combination thereof, loaded within the particle, as disclosed above. The
dermal dendritic cells phagocytose the loaded particle, thereby triggering the immune
response to the vaccine.
[0017]    In yet another related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for producing
an incubated dendritic cell containing a biological material loaded particle comprising: (i)
loading a biological material into the particle to produce the loaded particle; (ii) freeze-drying
the biological material loaded particle; and (iii) incubating the biological material loaded
particle with a dendritic cell, wherein the biological material comprises a protein or a
fragment thereof, nucleic acid, or a combination thereof, and wherein incubating the loaded
particle with the dendritic cell causes the dendritic cell to phagocytose the loaded particle.
[0018]    In specific embodiments, the foregoing method further comprises (a) resuspending
the biological material loaded particle in solution and (b) freeze-drying the resuspended
                                                 4

    WO 2015/134606                                                             PCT/US2015/018728
solution before step (iii). The biological material comprises a protein or a fragment thereof,
nucleic acid, or a combination thereof.
[0019]    In specific embodiments, step (iii) comprises: (a) adding a biological material into a
yeast cell wall particle, (b) incubating the yeast cell wall particle, (c) freeze-drying the yeast
cell wall particle and (d) washing the yeast cell wall, wherein the biological material
comprises a protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, or a combination thereof, and
wherein steps (b)-(c) are repeated at least once with a step of adding water into the yeast cell
wall particle before step (b) is repeated.
[0020]    In specific embodiments, step (iii) comprises: (a) contacting the vaccine loaded
particle and the dendritic cell at a ratio from about 1:1 to about 100:1, including about 1:1,
about 10:1, about 20:1, about 30:1, about 40:1, about 50:1, about 60:1, about 70:1, about
80:1, about 90:1, and about 100:1; (b) incubating the vaccine loaded particle with the
dendritic cell for 1 to 2 hours and (c) collecting the dendritic cell and washing the cell.
[0021]    Furthermore, the present invention relates to a method for preventing and treating
infectious diseases and noninfectious diseases, comprising administering a composition
comprising (i) a particle and (ii) an exogenous biological material loaded within the particle,
wherein the biological material comprises a protein or a fragment thereof, a nucleic acid, or a
combination thereof, as disclosed above.
[0022]    In specific embodiments, the infectious diseases include but are not limited to
virally-mediated, bacterially-mediated, or parasitic diseases currently susceptible to vaccine
stimulated protective immune responses or those marginally susceptible with current vaccine
technology that could be improved with the current invention. In other embodiments, the
non-infectious diseases include but are not limited to cancer by generating similar protective
immune responses against known and unknown immunogenic tumor-associated antigens.
[0023]    In another aspect, the present invention relates to a composition comprising a yeast
cell wall particle and silicate, wherein the yeast cell wall particle is modified by "capping"
with the silicate. In some embodiments, the composition further comprises an exogenous
biological material loaded within the yeast cell wall particle. In other embodiments, a
                                                 5

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
composition encompassed by this invention comprises a yeast cell wall particle loaded with a
biological material, and optionally with one or more adjuvants. Preferably, the one or more
adjuvants are loaded within the yeast cell wall particle. Additionally, suitable excipients
and/or preservatives can be included in the compositions of the invention. It is within the
purview of one of ordinary skill in the art to select suitable adjuvants, excipients and/or
preservatives. Preferably, the silicate is any organic moiety attached to each of the four
oxygen compounds of an orthosilicate, such as tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS),
tetramethylorthosilicate, tetrapropylorthosilicate, or tetrabutylorthosilicate.
[0024]    In some embodiments, the biological material includes, but is not limited to, a
specific protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a
combination thereof. The protein or a fragment thereof, or nucleic acid is selected from the
group consisting of a protein, a peptide, an epitope, an antigen, DNA, RNA, cDNA, and an
immunogenic fragment or a subunit thereof.
[0025]    In some embodiments, a small amount of one or more immune response enhancing
adjuvants is also loaded within the yeast cell wall particle or administered with the loaded
YCWP. The addition of one or more adjuvants to the interior of the YCWP increases the
immunogenic effects of the composition. Commonly used adjuvants include, but are not
limited to, small molecule compounds, proteins, peptides, nucleic acids and carbohydrates.
Suitable adjuvants are those molecules known to mature dendritic cells and interact with
receptors on dendritic cells in order to activate dendritic cells and further stimulate a more
robust generation of T cells, such as CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Exemplary adjuvants include,
but are not limited to, monophosphoryl lipid A, CpG oligonucleotides (such as CpG DNA),
Poly I:C, Poly ICLC, potent MHC II epitope peptides, beta glucan, and dendritic cell
stimulating cytokines such as IL-12, IL-15 and IFN-y, imiquimod, as well as DC maturing
cytokines such as IL-4 and GM-CSF.
[0026]    In one embodiment, the amount of one or more immune response enhancing
adjuvants is at least about 10 ng, at least about 50 ng, at least about 100 ng, at least about 200
ng, at least about 300 ng, at least about 400 ng, at least about 500 ng, at least about 600 ng, at
least about 700 ng, at least about 800 ng, at least about 900 ng, at least about 1 gg, at least
                                                 6

about 5 ptg, at least about 10 ptg, at least about 15 ptg, at least about 20 ptg, at least about 25
ptg, at least about 30 ptg, at least about 35 ptg, at least about 40 ptg, at least about 45 pLg, at
least about 50 ptg, at least about 60 ptg, at least about 70 ptg, at least about 80 pLg, at least
about 80 ptg, at least about 90 ptg, or at least about 100 ptg. In one embodiment, the amount
of adjuvant represents between 1 -10% (w/w) of the composition. The amount of the
adjuvant(s) is sufficient to stimulate receptors, such as the toll-like receptor, on the dendritic
cell.
[0001]      In a related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for preparing a
composition comprising a yeast cell wall particle and silicate. The method comprises
contacting a yeast cell wall particle with a silicate in the presence of ammonia such that the
yeast cell wall particle is "capped" by the silicate. Preferably, the silicate is
tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS), tetramethylorthosilicate, tetrapropylorthosilicate, or
tetratbutylorthosilicate.
[0027a]      In another related aspect, the present invention relates to a composition comprising
(i) a yeast cell wall particle, (ii) tetraethylorthosilicate, and (iii) tumor lysate loaded within
the yeast cell wall particle, wherein the yeast cell wall particle is modified by capping with
the silicate.
[0002]      In yet another related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for efficient
delivery of a biological material to a subject comprising administering to the subject a
composition comprising (i) a yeast cell wall particle capped with silicate; and (ii) a biological
material loaded within the particle. Preferably, the composition is directly administered to
the dermis of the subject such that the dermal dendritic cells phagocytose the loaded particle,
thereby triggering the immune response to the biological material. Cells of monocytic origin
phagocytose the composition comprising the yeast cell wall particles loaded with a biological
material and capped with silicate, thereby promoting differentiation into mature dendritic
cells for proper antigen presentation.
          [0028a] In yet another related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for
producing a cell mixture containing a yeast cell wall particle loaded with tumor lysate and
                                                   -7-

capped with a tetraethylorthosilicate, comprising: (i) loading tumor lysate into a yeast cell
wall particle to produce a loaded particle; (ii) capping the loaded particle with a
tetraethylorthosilicate; (iii) freeze-drying the capped, loaded particle; and (iv)incubating the
capped, loaded particle with a cell of monocytic origin wherein the incubation causes the cell
of monocytic origin to phagocytose the capped, loaded particle.
[0003]    In yet another related aspect, the present invention relates to a method for producing
a cell mixture containing a yeast cell wall particle loaded with a biological material and
capped with a silicate comprising: (i) loading a biological material into a yeast cell wall
particle to produce a loaded particle; (ii) capping the loaded particle with a silicate, (iii)
freeze-drying the capped, loaded particle; and (iv) incubating the capped, loaded particle with
a cell of monocytic origin, such as a pre-dendritic cell, a dendritic cell or a partially
differentiated dendritic cell, wherein the incubation causes the cell of monocytic origin to
                                                 -7a-

    WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
phagocytose the capped, loaded particle. In some embodiments, the cell of monocytic origin
is a dendritic cell, and the biological material includes, but is not limited to, a specific protein
or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a combination thereof.
[0030]    In specific embodiments, the loading step of the foregoing method for producing an
dendritic cell containing a capped, loaded yeast cell wall particle comprises: (a) suspending a
yeast cell wall particle and a biological material in a diluent and incubating for a period of
time, such as about two hours, to allow the biological material to be absorbed by the yeast
cell wall particle and (b) freeze-drying the suspension to load the biological material within
the yeast cell wall particle. If necessary, steps (a) and (b) are repeated at least once to
increase the loading efficiency.
[0031]    In specific embodiments, the incubating step of the foregoing method for producing
an isolated dendritic cell containing a capped, loaded yeast cell wall particle further
comprises: (a) contacting the capped, loaded particle with a dendritic cell at a ratio from
about 1:1 to about 100:1, including about 1:1, about 10:1, about 20:1, about 30:1, about 40:1,
about 50:1, about 60:1, about 70:1, about 80:1, about 90:1, and about 100:1; (b) incubating
the capped, loaded particle with the dendritic cell for 1 to 2 hours and (c) collecting the
dendritic cell and washing the cell.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0032]    FIG. 1 depicts a process for producing dendritic cells.
[0033]    FIG. 2 depicts a process for producing tumor lysate.
[0034]    FIG. 3 depicts a process for producing yeast cell wall particles.
[0035]    FIG. 4 depicts a process for loading biological material into yeast cell wall particles.
[0036]    FIG. 5 depicts a process for producing vaccine particle loaded dendritic cells.
[0037]    FIG. 6A depicts the lungs of unvaccinated mice 21 days following inoculation with
one million B 16 tumor cells IV (dark spots are melanoma metastases). FIG. 6B depicts the
                                                 8

    WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
lungs of vaccinated mice 21 days following inoculation with one million B16 tumor cells IV,
which mice were vaccinated with tumor lysate and yeast cell wall particles simply mixed 3
days prior to tumor challenge. FIG. 6C depicts the lungs of vaccinated mice 21 days
following inoculation with one million B 16 tumor cells IV, which mice were vaccinated with
yeast cell wall particles loaded with tumor lysate 3 days prior to tumor challenge.
[0038]     FIG. 7 depicts the structure of the silicate capped yeast cell wall particles. Silicon is
depicted in the darker grey color while the lighter grey color represents carbon. FIG. 8A
shows the structure of tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS). FIG. 8B shows the partial hydrolysis
products of TEOS initiated by the ammonia in the reaction mixture (ethylorthosilicate)
forming H-bonds between their OH groups. FIG. 8C shows the silanol condensation product
resulting from the loss of water from the H-bonded ethylorthosilicate molecules. This
reaction continues in developing polymeric silicates. FIG. 8D structural group shows the
similar H-bonding between the polymeric silicate structures and the primary hydroxyl group
of the -glucan bonding between the polymeric silicate structures and the primary hydroxyl
group of the P-glucan structure of the yeast cell wall particles. FIG. 8E shows the resulting
covalent bond formation between the polymeric silicates and the yeast cell wall particles
resulting from this silanol condensation and causing the capping of the loaded yeast cell wall
particles.
[0039]     FIG. 8 depicts the percentage of survival of each group of the mice: "control" group
that received IV injection of B 16 melanoma tumor cells only; "regular YCWP" group that
received IV injection of B16 melanoma tumor cells and interdermal injection of uncapped
YCWPs loaded with B16 tumor lysate; "Si capped YCWP" group that received IV injection
of B 16 melanoma tumor cells and interdermal injection of silicate capped YCWPs loaded
with B16 tumor lysate; "regular YCWPs + AD" group that received IV injection of B16
melanoma tumor cells and interdermal injection of uncapped YCWPs loaded with B16 tumor
lysate and adjuvants including CpG oligonucleotide and monophosphoryl lipid A, and "Si
capped YCWPs + AD" group that received IV injection of B16 melanoma tumor cells and
interdermal injection of silicate capped YCWPs loaded with B16 tumor lysate and adjuvants
including CpG oligonucleotide and monophosphoryl lipid A.
                                                  9

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0040]     Reference is made herein to various methodologies known to those of ordinary skill
in the art. Publications and other materials setting forth such known methodologies to which
reference is made are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties as though set forth in
full.
Definitions
[0041]     The term "about" in connection with numerical values and ranges means that the
number comprehended is not limited to the exact number set forth herein, and is intended to
refer to ranges substantially within the quoted range while not departing from the scope of the
invention. As used herein, "about" will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art
and will vary to some extent on the context in which it is used. For example, "about" means
that +/- 10% of a particular numerical value following the term.
[0042]     As used herein "subject" or "patient" denotes any animal in need of treatment with a
vaccine. For example, a subject may be suffering from or at risk of developing a condition
that can be treated or prevented with a vaccine. As used herein "subject" or "patient"
includes humans.
[0043]     As used herein, the phrases "therapeutically effective amount" and "therapeutic
level" mean that the vaccine dosage or plasma concentration of the compositions described
herein in a subject, respectively, that provides the specific response for which the biological
material or vaccine is administered in a subject in need of such treatment. For convenience
only, exemplary dosages, delivery amounts, therapeutically effective amounts and therapeutic
levels are provided below with reference to adult human subject. Those skilled in the art can
adjust such amounts in accordance with standard practices as needed to treat a specific
subject and/or condition/disease.
[0044]     As used herein, the term "capping" or "capped" means that a polymeric structure,
like a "mesh net," covers or coats the yeast cell wall particle such that the biological material
                                                10

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
loaded within the yeast cell wall particle is retained or entrapped therein. The polymeric
structure can be formed by a silicate, such as a tetraalkylorthosilicate.
Vaccine
[0045]    The term "immunization" means a process by which a subject becomes protected
against a particular condition, disease or diseases, usually by receiving a vaccine.
[0046]    The term "vaccine" is a biological material or product that induces immune response
in the body of a subject upon administration, e.g., by injection, by oral administration, or by
aerosol administration. Vaccine comprises at least one active component, such as an antigen
that induces immune response, and additional components such as adjuvants, conjugates,
preservatives, and other excipients including diluents, stabilizers, etc.
[0047]    Exemplary antigens useful in vaccine applications include allergens, viral antigens,
bacterial antigens and antigens derived from parasites. For preventing and treating infectious
diseases, bacterial antigens and viral antigens are preferred. Suitable viral antigens include
HIV, EBV , HBV, HCV, CMV, and Herpes virus. Additionally, toxins (usually produced by
bacteria) can be used as antigens. For non-infectious diseases such as cancer, preferred
antigens include tumor associated antigens, with which the artisan will be familiar (e.g.,
carcinoembryonic antigen, prostate-specific membrane antigen, melanoma antigen,
adenocarcinoma antigen, leukemia antigen, lymphoma antigen, sarcoma antigen, MAGE-1,
MAGE-2, MART-1, Melan-A, p53, gp 100, antigen associated with colonic carcinoma,
antigen associated with breast carcinoma, like HER2 and mammoglobin A, Muc 1, Trp-2,
telomerase, PSA and antigen associated with renal carcinoma), and can include a
combination of antigens or antigenic fragments. In one embodiment, the particle is loaded
with tumor cell lysate.
Biological Material
[0048]    The biological material encompassed by this invention includes, but is not limited
to, a specific protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a
                                                11

   WO 2015/134606                                                             PCT/US2015/018728
combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that fragments of a
protein, e.g. a peptide of any length, an epitope, or a subunit of a protein, which produce
immunogenic response of a subject upon administration can be used.
[0049]    In recent years, nucleic acids such as DNA, RNA, cDNA or fragments thereof, are
also used as vaccines. In general, the DNA is extracted from an infectious agent's DNA, and
then modified/enhanced by genetic engineering before delivering to a subject by
electroporation, gene gun, etc.
[0050]    The biological material of the present invention may be live, wild-type pathogens.
Preferably, and antigens are in inactivated or attenuated forms, such as killed viruses, pieces
of bacteria, and subunits or immunogenic functional fragments of proteins, polypeptides or
nucleic acids. More preferably, the biological material does not cause illness but can
effectively provoke an immune response of the subject and protects the subject against future
infection of a particular disease.
[0051]    It is to be understood that yeast cell wall particles have a pore size of at least about
30 nm, and therefore, any molecule/object with a radius of rotation of 30 nm or less can be
loaded within the yeast cell wall particles. For example, some viruses or viral particles
having a size less than 30 nm (e.g., tobacco mosaic virus) can be loaded within yeast cell wall
particles, as well as other antigens, including tumor lysate.
Adi uvants
[0052]    A number of immune response enhancing agents can be added to the composition as
adjuvants to boost immune response such that when the composition is administered to a
subject, for example, directly to the dermis of the subject, the immune response is boosted by
the adjuvants comparing to administering a composition without any adjuvant. Alternatively,
when the composition comprising a biological material loaded particle is incubated with a
dendritic cell, the adjuvants exhibit an increased effect on the dendritic cell while
dramatically decreasing any systemic effects from such adjuvants. The biological material
                                                 12

    WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
comprises a protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a
combination thereof.
[0053]    A number of immune response enhancing agents can be added to the composition
for loading within the yeast cell wall particle, as adjuvants to boost immune response such
that when the composition is administered to a subject, for example, directly to the dermis of
the subject, the immune response is boosted by the adjuvants compared to administering the
composition without any additional adjuvants. For example, when the yeast cell wall
particles are loaded with a biological material, and the loaded yeast cell wall particle are also
incubated with a dendritic cell, and the adjuvants exhibit an increased effect on the dendritic
cell while dramatically decreasing any localized or systemic effects from such adjuvants.
[0054]    It is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art to select one or more
suitable adjuvants for this invention. For instance, monophosphoryl lipid A, CpG
oligonucleotides, Poly I:C, Poly ICLC, potent MHC II epitope peptides, and dendritic cell
stimulating cytokines such as IL-12, IL-2, and GM-CSF are good adjuvant candidates of this
invention.
[0055]    Suitable adjuvants are those molecules known to mature dendritic cells and interact
with receptors on dendritic cells in order to activate dendritic cells and further stimulate a
more robust generation of T cells, such as CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. For instance,
monophosphoryl lipid A, CpG oligonucleotides, Poly I:C, Poly ICLC, potent MHC II epitope
peptides, and dendritic cell stimulating cytokines such as IL-12, IL-2, and GM-CSF, small
molecules such as imiquimod are good adjuvant candidates of this invention.
Particle
[0056]    As described herein, "particle" refers to any hollow and porous structure that can
contain vaccine therein and also allow the vaccine to exit the structure. In some
embodiments, the size of the particle is about 0.5 to about 5 gm, which approximates the size
of bacterium to allow the particle to be ingested by monocytes, such as dendritic cells. In
specific embodiments, the size of the particle is about 0.5 to about 1 gm. In specific
                                                13

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
embodiments, the size of the particle is about 0.5 to about 2.5 gin. In some embodiments, the
particle can be any particle with a glycan network, so long as the particle is about 0.5 to about
5 gm in size.
[0057]    Preferably, the particle is a digestable or biodegradable particle. In some
embodiments, the particle is not limited by a particular shape or material, but can be any
shape, size, or material having a hollow or porous structure that allows the particle to be
phagocytosed by monocytes, including dendritic cells.
Yeast Cell Wall Particles
[0058] In another embodiment, the particle is a yeast cell wall particle YCWP, which is
prepared from yeast cell wall such that the particle has a hollow or porous structure to
encapsulate a biological material therein. The biological material comprises a protein or a
fragment thereof, nucleic acid, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the YCWP is
prepared from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In another embodiment, the YCWP approximates
the size of microbial structures that cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system and other
phagocytic cells typically ingest. In specific embodiments, the YCWP is about 1-25 im,
preferably 1-5 im, 5-10 im, 10-15 im, 15-20 gin, 15-25 im, or 20-25 im. For example, the
YCWP is about 20 gin.
[0059]    In one embodiment, the YCWP is prepared by (a) suspending yeast to produce a
suspension, (b) incubating the suspension, (c) centrifuging the suspension and removing the
supernatant and (d) recovering the resulting YCWP. In another embodiment, steps (a)-(d) are
repeated at least 1, 2, 3 or 4 times.
[0060]    In another embodiment, the YCWP is prepared by (a) suspending yeast in a solution
to produce a first suspension, (b) incubating the first suspension, (c) centrifuging the first
suspension and removing the supernatant, (d) suspending the resulting pellet to produce a
second suspension, (e) incubating the second suspension, (f) centrifuging the second
suspension and removing the supernatant and (g) washing the resulting pellet to recover the
YCWP. In another embodiment, the YCWP is sterilized.
                                                 14

    WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
[0061] In specific embodiments, the yeast is suspended in NaOH, including IM NaOH. In
specific embodiments, the first suspension is incubated at about 80 0 C for about 1 hour or for
1 hour. In specific embodiments, the centrifuging is performed at about 2000 times gravity
for about 10 minutes, or at 2000 times gravity for 10 minutes. In specific embodiments, the
pellet is suspended in water, including water at about pH 4.5 or at pH 4.5. In specific
embodiments, the second suspension is incubated at about 55 0C for about 1 hour or at 55 0C
for 1 hour. In specific embodiments, the pellet is washed in water at least 1, 2, 3 or 4 times.
In specific embodiments, the pellet is washed once.
[0062]     In another embodiment, the YCWP is sterilized using isopropanol and/or acetone
following washing of the pellet. In specific embodiments, other known alcohols are
appropriate. In specific embodiments, the YCWP is allowed to fully dry after sterilization.
In another embodiment, the YCWP is resuspended after being allowed to dry. In specific
embodiments, the YCWP is resuspended in PBS, such as IX PBS.
[0063]     In another embodiment, the YCWP is allowed to dry and then to be frozen before
the biological material is loaded into the YCWP and/or before capped with silicate, in order
to place the YCWP in storage before use. In specific embodiments, the YCWP is freeze
dried and stored at about 4 0C or lower. In specific embodiments, the YCWP is freeze dried
and stored at 4 0C. The biological material comprises a specific protein or a fragment thereof,
nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a combination thereof.
Biological Material Loaded Particle
[0064]     The particle, for example, the yeast cell wall particle, is loaded with a biological
material, such as a specific protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor
lysate, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the biological material is loaded into
the particle by incubating the biological material and a suspension of particle, for example,
the yeast cell wall particles together and allowing the biological material to penetrate into the
hollow insides of the particles.
                                                15

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
[0065]    In another embodiment, after the particle or the yeast cell wall particle is incubated
or loaded with the biological material, the combination is freeze-dried to create an anhydrous
vaccine within the particle. By freeze-drying, the biological material is trapped within the
particle and ready to be phagocytosed by a monocyte, such as a dendritic cell. In specific
embodiments, the freeze-drying is the only mechanism used to trap the biological material
within the particle. In specific embodiments, the entrapment is not caused by a separate
component blocking the biological material from exiting the particle, for example, by
physical entrapment, hydrophobic binding, any other binding. In specific embodiments, the
entrapment is not caused by crosslinking or otherwise attaching the biological material to the
particle outside of any attachment that may occur upon freeze-drying. In specific
embodiments, the compositions of the present invention do not include any additional
component that specifically assists in evading the lysosome. The biological material
includes, for example, a specific protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate,
tumor lysate, or a combination thereof.
[0066]   In another embodiment, the biological material is incorporated into the yeast cell
wall particle. In specific embodiments, the number of YCWPs is about 1 x 109 and the
volume of biological material is about 50 gL. In specific embodiments, the incubation is for
about one hour or less than one hour at about 4 0C. In some embodiments, the combination
of YCWPs and biological material is freeze dried over a period of less than or about 2 hours.
[0067]    In another embodiment, the loaded yeast cell wall particle is capped with a silicate.
Specifically, in some embodiments the loaded YCWPs are capped by contacting the YCWPs
with a silicate, such as tetraalkylorthosilicate, in the presence of ammonia, such that the
loaded YCWPs are capped with the silicate. In preferred embodiments, the loaded YCWPs
are capped with the silicate within about 60 minutes, about 45 minutes, about 30 minutes,
about 15 minutes, about 10 minutes, about 5 minutes or about 2 minutes. The reactivity of
the tetraalkylorthosilicates is such that under hydrolysis mediated by the ammonia, the
tetraalkylorthosilicates react with the primary hydroxyls of the P-glucan structure of the
YCWPs. The tetraalkylorthosilicates also self-react with the ends of these cell wall silicates
to form "bridges" such as -O-Si(OH) 2-0- or in three dimensions such as -O-Si(-O-Si-0
                                                 16

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
)(OH)-O- or -Si(-O-Si-O-) 2 -0-. These bridges may occur across the pores in the YCWPs
such that the retention of the loaded drug or biological material therein is increased. The
structure of the capped YCWPs is depicted in Figure 7E. Such a capped, loaded YCWP can
be freeze dried.
[0068]    The inventor of the present application unexpectedly discovered that loaded YCWPs
capped with silicate are an effective vaccine delivery system. More specifically, the capped
YCWPs retain more loaded material than the uncapped YCWPs. Even more surprisingly, the
capped YCWPs not only deliver significantly more released biological material into the
cytoplasm of the phagocytic cells but also deliver significantly more loaded particles into the
phagocytic cells in comparison to the uncapped YCWPs, as detailed in the working
examples.
[0069]    In another embodiment, the loaded particle is resuspended in a diluent or solution
after the freeze-drying. In specific embodiments, the diluent or solution is water. In specific
embodiments, the loaded particle is resuspended and/or incubated with additional biological
material, for example, vaccine, to penetrate the particle and the combination is then freeze
dried again. In other embodiments, the combination is subjected to multiple freeze-drying
and resuspensions. In other embodiments, the biological material loaded particle is sterilized
in ethanol after the freeze-drying and before use. The biological material includes, for
example, a protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a
combination thereof.
[0070]    In specific embodiments, the biological material is loaded into the particle by (a)
incubating the biological material and a suspension of the particles, allowing the biological
particle to penetrate into the hollow insides of the particles and freeze-drying the suspension
of loaded particle and (b) optionally resuspending the particles, incubating the resuspended
particles and freeze drying the resuspended particles and any vaccine not already in the
particle.
[0071]    In specific embodiments using YCWPs, the number of YCWPs is about 1 x 109 and
the volume of the biological material is about 50 gL. In specific embodiments, the number of
                                               17

   WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
YCWPs is 1 x 109 and the volume of the biological material is 50 gL. In specific
embodiments, the incubation in step (a) is for less than one hour at about 4 0 C. In specific
embodiments, the incubation in step (a) is for about one hour at 4 0 C. In some embodiments,
the foregoing suspension is freeze dried in step (a) over a period of less than 2 hours or over a
period of about 2 hours. In some embodiments, the YCWPs in step (b) are resuspended in
water, including about 50 gL of water or 50 gL of water. In some embodiments, the
resuspended YCWPs are incubated in step (b) for less than or about one hour at about 4 0 C or
for less than or about 2 hours at 4 0C. The biological material includes a specific protein or a
fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a combination thereof.
[0072]    Prior to administration, the capped, loaded yeast cell wall particle is resuspended in
a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, such as PBS or a saline solution.
Dendritic Cell
[0073]    As described herein, "dendritic cell" refers to a cell generated from a peripheral
blood mononuclear cell ("PBMC"). In one embodiment, a dendritic cell is prepared by (a)
collecting blood, (b) diluting the blood, (c) performing a density gradient separation of
PBMCs, (d) lysing red blood cells and washing the PBMCs, (e) incubating the PBMCs, (f)
removing nonadherent cells and (g) culturing adherent cells in media.
[0074]    In some embodiments, the dendritic cell is an immature dendritic cell that has been
cultured for no more than 5 days. In other embodiments, the dendritic cell has been cultured
for 6-8 days.
[0075]    In specific embodiments, the blood is heparinized. In specific embodiments, the
density gradient separation at step (c) comprises placing the blood in a Lymphocyte
Separation Medium and then centrifuging the blood. In specific embodiments, the
centrifuging is performed at about 1000 times gravity for about 20 minutes or at 1000 times
gravity for 20 minutes. In specific embodiments, a second centrifuging is performed before
step (d) and is performed at about 500g for about 5 minutes or is performed at 500g for 5
minutes. In specific embodiments, a third centrifuging is performed before step (d) and is
                                                18

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
performed at about 500g for about 10 minutes or is performed at 500g for 10 minutes. In
specific embodiments, the centrifuging is performed at about 1200 times gravity for about 10
minutes or at 1200 times gravity for about 15 minutes. In specific embodiments, a second
centrifuging is performed before step (d) and is performed at about 500 g for about 5 minutes
or is performed at 500 g for 5 minutes. In specific embodiments, the lysing is performed
using an ACK lysing solution, followed by incubation, preferably at room temperature for
about 5 minutes, and followed by a subsequent centrifugation. In specific embodiments, the
PBMCs are washed in RPMI medium. In specific embodiments, the PBMCs are incubated at
step (e) in flasks at about 37 0C for about 1-2 hours or at 37 0 C for 1-2 hours. In specific
embodiments, serum-free DC media is added to the flask.
[0076]    In some embodiments, one or more cytokines is present in the culture media,
including, but not limited to, granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (e.g., 800
units/ml) and IL-4 (e.g., 500 units/ml).
Vaccine Compositions
[0077]    In some embodiments, the biological material loaded particles are directly injected
into the dermis of a subject such that the loaded particles are phagocytosed by dermal
dendritic cells. In some embodiments, optionally, the biological material loaded particle is in
vitro phagocytosed within a monocyte, preferably a dendritic cell. In some embodiments, the
yeast cell wall particles loaded with a biological material and capped with silicate are directly
injected into the dermis of a subject such that the particles are phagocytosed by dermal
dendritic cells. In one embodiment, the biological material loaded particle is incubated with a
dendritic cell such that the cell phagocytoses the biological material loaded particle. The
biological material includes, for example, a specific protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic
acid, carbohydrate, tumor lysate, or a combination thereof. In other embodiments, the capped,
loaded particles are phagocytosed by a monocyte in vitro, wherein the monocyte is preferably
a dendritic cell.
                                                19

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
[0078]    In specific embodiments, the particle is incubated with the dendritic cell at a ratio of
from about 1:1 to about 100:1, optionally prior to human administration. The incubation can
be performed for about 1 hour, 1 hour or preferably less than 1 hour.
[0079]    In specific embodiments, the dendritic cell containing the capped, loaded particle is
collected and washed, for example, at least 1, 2, 3 or 4 times. In other embodiments, the
dendritic cells are incubated after washing, resuspended in freezing medium, and frozen for
storage before use. In specific embodiments, the resuspension produces a concentration of
about 10 x 106 cells per ml or 10 x 106 cells per ml. In specific embodiments, the
resuspension is frozen for storage before use.
Formulation
[0080]    The compositions of the present invention may be formulated for mucosal
administration (e.g., intranasal and inhalational administration) or for percutaneous
administration. The composition of the invention can also be formulated for parenteral
administration (e.g., intramuscular, intravenous, or subcutaneous injection), and injected
directly into the patient and target cells of monocytic origin, like macrophages and dendritic
cells. In specific embodiments, the capped, biological material loaded particles without prior
incubation with dendritic cells are directly injected into the dermis of a subject. Thus, the
compositions of the present invention may be administered just like a conventional vaccine.
This also substantially reduces cost because of the lower level of skill required In other
embodiments, the capped, loaded particle is first incubated with cells of monocytic origin,
such as dendritic cells, prior to administration to a subject.
[0081]    Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in ampules or
in multi-dose containers, optionally with an added preservative. The compositions may take
such forms as suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may
contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents. The
composition of the present invention may also be formulated using a pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient. Such excipients are well known in the art, but typically will be a
physiologically tolerable aqueous solution. Physiologically tolerable solutions are those
                                                20

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
which are essentially non-toxic. Preferred excipients will either be inert or enhancing, but a
suppressive compound may also be used to achieve a tolerogenic response. Alternatively, the
composition is not administered with any other immunosuppressive treatment, such as
steroids or chemotherapy.
Therapeutic Methods
[0082]    The compositions of the present invention attract phagocytic cells, such as cells of
the mononuclear phagocyte system, including monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells or
immature dendritic cells and therefore can be used as a vaccine. In the field of vaccination,
cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system are considered "professional" antigen presenting
cells and thus, are the ideal target for vaccine delivery. It is well known that presentation of
an antigen within an APC is vastly more effective in generating a strong cellular immune
response than expression of this same antigen within any other cell type. Therefore, the
ability of the compositions of the present invention to present an antigen on an antigen
presenting cell via class I MHC and class II MHC molecules dramatically enhances the
efficacy of such a vaccine.
[0083]    The present invention contemplates both prophylactic and therapeutic uses of the
compositions disclosed herein for infectious diseases such as virally-mediated, bacterially
mediated, and parasitic diseases currently targeted with vaccine strategies or those marginally
susceptible due to limitations of current vaccine technology, and noninfectious diseases,
including cancer. The disease to be treated is not particularly limiting, but depends on the
biological material loaded into the particle. Such exemplary biological material includes a
tumor lysate, protein or a fragment thereof, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, or a combination
thereof.
[0084]    The compositions of the present invention come into contact with phagocytic cells
either in vivo or in vitro. Hence, both in vivo and in vitro methods are contemplated. As for
in vivo methods, the compositions of the present invention are generally administered
parenterally, usually intravenously, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, interdermally or
intradermally. They may be administered, e.g., by bolus injection or continuous infusion. In
                                                21

    WO 2015/134606                                                             PCT/US2015/018728
in vitro methods, monocytic cells are contacted outside the body and the contacted cells are
then parenterally administered to the patient.
Dosage
[0085]    In some embodiments, about 200 gL of a 10 x 106 concentration of dendritic cells
containing biological material locaded particles, or capped, biological material loaded yeast
cell wall particles forms one dose of the treatment. In another embodiment, the dose is
administered by diluting the 200 gL aliquot to a final volume of 1 ml before administering
the dose to a subject. In specific embodiments, the aliquot is diluted with sterile saline
containing 5% human serum albumin. In specific embodiments, the 200 gL aliquot will need
to be thawed before dilution. In such a scenario, the length of time between thawing and
administration of the dose to a subject will be no longer than 2 hours. In some embodiments,
the diluted aliquot is administered in a 3 cc syringe. In some embodiments, a syringe needle
no smaller than 23 gauge is used.
[0086]    In another embodiment, a subject is administered at least 1, 2, 3 or 4 doses of the
compositions of the present invention. In specific embodiments, a subject is re-vaccinated
once every 4 weeks. In some embodiments, the composition comprising biological material
loaded particle is administered to a subject without first fusing to dendritic cells. In specific
embodiments, a subject is re-administered with the composition once every 4 weeks. In
specific embodiments, about 1-2 million dendritic cells containing the biological material
loaded particles or the capped, loaded particles is administered optionally by injection at each
vaccination. In specific embodiments, the biological material loaded particles or capped,
loaded particles are injected in a subject at or near (1) a site of infection or disease, or (2) a
lymph node. The biological material includes, for example, a protein or a fragment thereof,
nucleic acid, or a combination thereof.
[0087]   The vaccine composition can also contain biological adjuvants, including but not
limited to nucleic acids such as CpG oligonucleotides, proteins or peptide epitopes such as
the tetanus toxoid MHC class II-binding p30 peptide.
                                                22

    WO 2015/134606                                                        PCT/US2015/018728
[0088]   The present invention is further illustrated by the following working examples,
which are for illustration purpose only and by no means limiting the scope of the present
invention.
                                         EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1: Preparing Dendritic Cells
[0089]   Dendritic cells were generated from a patient's PBMCs. PBMCs were collected
from the patient by a blood draw of 200 ml following standard operating procedures. The
blood was then transferred to 250 ml centrifuge tubes and diluted 1:1 with 1X PBS. Then, 35
ml of the diluted blood was layered over 15 ml of room temperature Lymphocyte Separation
Medium (LSM; Mediatech) in 50 ml tubes and centrifuged at 10OOg for 20 minutes at room
temperature. The PBMC layers were removed by pipetting from the LSM gradients and
placed into clean 50 ml centrifuge tubes. Four volumes of IX PBS were added and the tubes
were inverted to mix the contents. The PBMCs were then centrifuged at 500g at room
temperature for 5 minutes. Ten ml of IX PBS were added into each tube and the cells were
resuspended and pooled into 1 tube. The PBMCs were again centrifuged at 500g at room
temperature for 10 minutes, resuspended in 20 to 40 ml of ACK lysing solution (Cambrex)
and incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes. The cells were then centrifuged again at
1500 rpm for 5 minutes. The PBMCs were resuspended in 30 ml RPMI-1640 medium
(Mediatech). The cells were then transferred into 2-4 T75 flasks. The flasks were incubated
at 370 C for 1 to 2 hours. The non-adherent cells were then removed by rinsing. Afterwards,
10 ml of IX PBS were added into each flask, the flask swirled, and the PBS removed.
Afterwards, 10 ml of complete DC media (serum-free DC Medium + 800 U/ml GM-CSF +
1000 U/ml IL-4) was added to each flask. The flasks were then incubated at 37 0 C, 5% C02
for 2 days. On Day 3, 10 ml of complete DC medium was added into each flask. The cells
were then incubated for another 2 days. On Day 6 or 7, the resulting immature dendritic cells
were ready for use.
[0090]   Figure 1 provides an overview of the generation of dendritic cells.
                                               23

    WO 2015/134606                                                         PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 2: Preparing the antigen
[0091]    Synthetic antigens such as peptides can be easily produced commercially and
provided in lyophilized state. These peptides can be re-constituted and co-incubated with the
prepared YCWP for loading. Similarly, recombinant proteins and/or isolated proteins can be
suspended in solution and co-incubated with the YCWP for loading as discussed below.
EXAMPLE 3: Preparing Tumor Lysate
[0092]    A tumor sample was obtained from a patient. After separating fat and necrotic
tissue away from the tumor tissue, the tissue was weighed and IX PBS added (50 gL of PBS
per 200 gg of tissue) and the tumor was minced thoroughly with scalpels in IX PBS. The
tumor cells were then subjected to 4 cycles of freeze and thaw. The freezing was performed
in liquid nitrogen for 20 minutes and the thawing was performed at room temperature.
Prepared tumor lysate was quantified by a spectrophotometer. An aliquot was taken for
quality control testing. The remainder was stored at < -135' C in preparation for vaccine
preparation. Small amounts of adjuvant can optionally be added after the freeze thaw cycles.
[0093]    Figure 2 provides an overview of the tumor cell lysate processing.
EXAMPLE 4: Preparing Yeast Cell Wall Particles
[0094]    YCWPs were prepared from Fleishmans Baker's Yeast or equivalent. Briefly, 10 g
of Fleishmans Baker's yeast was suspended in 100 ml of 1 M NaOH and heated to 80 0 C for
one hour. The undissolved yeast cell walls were recovered by centrifugation at 2000 x g for
10 minutes. The recovered yeast cell walls were then resuspended in 100 ml of water with
the pH adjusted to 4.5 with HCl and incubated at 55 0 C for an additional hour, and
subsequently recovered by centrifugation. The recovered YCWPs were then washed with
water once, isopropanol 4 times and finally acetone 2 times. Once the YCWPs were fully
dried they were resuspended in PBS, counted, aliquoted into groups of 1 X10 9 particles and
freeze dried for use in manufacturing the vaccine.
[0095]    Figure 3 provides an overview of the yeast cell wall particles processing.
                                              24

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 5: Preparing Yeast Cell Wall Particles
[0096]    Three grams of active dry yeast (Fleischmann's or equivalent) were washed three
times in water by suspending the yeast in 30 mL of sterile water, vortexing, and centrifuging
at 800-1000 x g for 5 minutes at room temperature. After decanting the supernatant, the yeast
pellet was resuspended in 50 mL of 1 M NaOH and heated in a 90 0C water bath for 1 hour.
[0097]    The yeast suspension was subsequently centrifuged at 800-1000 x g for 5 minutes,
and the pellet was resuspended in 25-30 mL of acid water (pH adjusted to 4.5 with HCl). The
acid water wash step was repeated until the pH of the suspension is < 7.0. Then the pellet
was resuspended in 30 mL acid water and incubated in a 75 0 C water bath for 1 hour. The
yeast pellet was recovered by centrifugation at 1000 x g for 5 minutes, and then washed with
10 mL of sterile water 3 times, 10 mL of isopropanol 4 times and finally 10 mL of acetone 2
times. The acetone was carefully removed, and the pellet was spread evenly on the glass
surface of a beaker, allowed to air dry overnight.
[0098]    The dried YWCPs were collected and stored in a vacuum jar at 4 0C and then
washed in 10-15 mL of filtered 70% ethanol 3 times. The YWCPs were briefly sonicated on
the final wash, and the sonication was repeated if necessary to disperse clumps. Once the
ethanol was removed, the YWCPs were washed in sterile water. Aliquots of 100 gl of
YWCPs were dispensed into 2.0 mL rounded bottom snap top centrifuge tubes, placed in
freezer for 1 hour, freeze dried, and stored in a vacuum jar at 4 0C for future use.
EXAMPLE 6: Preparing Yeast Cell Wall Particles
[0099]    Yeast cell wall particles (YCWPs) were prepared by suspending Sacharomyces
cerevisiae (100 g of Fleishmans Bakers yeast, AB Mauri Food Inc., Chesterfield, MO) in 1 L
of 1 M NaOH and heating to 800 C for 1 h. The insoluble material containing the yeast cell
walls was collected by centrifugation at 2000 x g for 10 min. This insoluble material was
then suspended in 1 L of water, brought to pH 4-5 with HCl, then incubated at 55 0 C for 1 h.
The insoluble residue was again collected by centrifugation and washed once with 1 L of
water, four times with 200 mL of isopropanol, and twice with 200 mL of acetone. The
resulting slurry was dried at room temperature in a sterile hood to produce 12.4 g of a fine,
                                                25

    WO 2015/134606                                                         PCT/US2015/018728
slightly off-white powder. The powder composed of dry YCWPs was carefully weighed and
suspended in sterile distilled water at a concentration of 10 mgs/ml, 1 ml aliquots were placed
in sterile Eppendorf tubes, frozen at -600 C and freeze dried at 0.012 mBar. Because the
boiling point of isopropanol and acetone is considerably below that of water, any possible
contamination by these solvents would be removed under these high vacuum conditions.
EXAMPLE 7: Preparing Tumor Lysate and Loading YCWPs
[0100]     Tumor protein antigens are released from tumor tissue by three freeze (-60 0 C)/ thaw
cycles followed by centrifugation at 21,000 g to remove all non-soluble material. The soluble
tumor antigenic material and optionally included adjuvant material is loaded into the inside of
the hollow YCWPs by two hours of incubation at 4 0 C to allow the small volume of soluble
tumor lysate to fully penetrate the hollow insides of the YCWPs. The volume of soluble
tumor lysate used is carefully calculated to closely approximate the volume of the insides of
the YCWPs such that the vast majority of the soluble tumor lysate, after incubation, resides
within the hollow insides of the YCWPs. Following incubation the fully solvated YCWPs
are frozen at -60 0 C and all water removed by freeze drying at 0.0 12 mBar vacuum for 8 hours
leaving the anhydrous tumor lysate antigenic material mostly inside the hollow YCWPs. In
order to drive any residual tumor lysate material into the insides of the YCWPs the same tiny
calculated volume of the insides of the YCWPs of sterile water is added to the dried partially
loaded YCWPs and again incubated for two hours at 40 C, followed again by freeze drying at
0.0 12 mBar vacuum for 8 hours.
EXAMPLE 8: Loading Biological Material into YCWPs
[0101]     A suspension of fully anhydrous YCWPs (1 X 109) is placed in contact with 50 gL
of a peptide in PBS over a period of 2 hours at 4 0C, allowing the peptide to penetrate into the
hollow insides of the YCWPs to produce loaded YCWPs. The suspension is then freeze
dried for 2 hours. After freeze drying, 50 gL of water is added to the loaded YCWPs,
incubated for another 2 hours at 4 0C and again freeze dried to yield YCWPs with dry
biological material within their hollow insides. The loaded YCWPs are then sterilized by
washing in ethanol and maintained in ethanol.
                                               26

    WO 2015/134606                                                            PCT/US2015/018728
Figure 4 provides an overview of the YCWPs loading procedure.
EXAMPLE 9: Loading YCWPs with Tumor Lysate
[0102]    A patient tumor biopsy sample was mixed carefully with 50-100 gl of lysis buffer
(PBS) (depending on the amount of the tumor sample), avoiding bubbles during mixing, and
was then incubated at 4 0C for 30 minutes. The mixture was subjected to freeze-thaw 3 times
in acetone-dry ice bath and 37 0C water bath, and centrifuged at 4 0C for 10 minutes at
maximum speed. 50 gl of the prepared tumor lysate was added in a sterile 2 mL centrifuge
tube containing 10 mg of dried YCWPs such that the liquid tumor lysate covered the
YCWPs. The mixture was incubated at 4 0 C for 2 hours until the liquid tumor lysate soaked
into the YCWPs.
[0103]    The tube was then placed into a -85 0C freezer for 30 minutes for a quick freeze of
the pellet. The tube was placed on freeze drier overnight. 50 gl of sterile water was added
onto the dried yeast pellet and incubated at 4 0C for 2 hours to allow the liquid to soak into
the pellets.
[0104]    The tube was placed into a -85 0 C freezer for 30 minutes for a quick freeze of the
pellet. The tube was then placed on freeze drier overnight. The dried particles were then
resuspended in 1 mL of 70% ethanol and stored at 4 0C for future use.
EXAMPLE 10: Administering Loaded YCWPs to Subject
[0105]    The loaded YCWPs prepared according to Examples above are resuspended in 1 mL
of a solution suitable for injection, such as sterile water for injection or sterile saline for
injection, which optionally contains 5% human serum albumin, under sterile conditions.
Once the loaded YCWPs are carefully resuspended, the entire volume is drawn and injected
to the dermis of a patient using a syringe.
EXAMPLE 11: Preparing Dendritic Cells Containing Loaded Particles
[0106]    The loaded YCWPs prepared according to Examples above in 70% ethanol
suspension are centrifuged. The ethanol is removed carefully and replaced with 1 mL of
                                                27

    WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
PBS. The loaded YCWPs are sonicated. The loaded YCWPs are washed with sterile IX
PBS. After final wash, the loaded YCWPs are resuspended in PBS to approximately 1 X 10
particles/100 gl PBS.
[0107]    The loaded YCWPs are added to a dendritic cell culture at a ratio of 1:100, and the
culture was returned to 37 0C incubator. Subsequently, the following factors are added to the
culture: 50 gg/mL of TNF-a in sterile water is added to the culture at a ratio of 1:5000 in
volume (2 gL per 10 mL of culture); 10 gg/mL of IL-10 in sterile water is added to the
culture at a ratio of 1:1000 in volume; 10 gg/mL of IL-6 in sterile water is added to the
culture at a ratio of 1:1000 in volume; and 1 mg/mL of PGE2 in 100% ethanol is added to the
culture at a ratio of 1:1000 in volume. After all factors are added and mixed into the culture,
the culture is incubated overnight.
EXAMPLE 12: Harvest of Dendritic Cells, Preparation and Cryopreservation of
Vaccine Composition
[0108]    The dendritic cell culture prepared according to Example 11 was removed from the
incubator. The following procedure was performed in a hood under sterile conditions. 10
mL of media were removed from culture flask. The culture flask was rinsed with 4.0-4.5 mL
of IX PBS and also added to the media.
[0109]    1.5-2.0 mL of CellStripperTM was added to the culture flask. The culture flask was
placed in 37 0C incubator for 10-20 minutes. About 4 mL of the culture media were added
back to the flask from the tube to wash and remove cells. The flask was washed to harvest as
many cells as possible. The cells were counted on hemacytometer or Cellometer TM. The
supernatant was removed after centrifugation.
[0110]    Subsequently, the cells were resuspended in CryoStorTM 10 at 5 X 106 cells/mL,
aliquoted into cryovials properly labeled with patient ID Number, date and cell concentration
at 1.25 X 106 cells/mL per vial (about 250 gL). A 250-500 gL portion was saved in a
cryovial for sterility testing, and the remaining vials were stored in Styrofoam containers and
placed under -86 0C to step down freeze.
                                                28

    WO 2015/134606                                                         PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 13: Preparation of the Solid Dose of Vaccine for Patient Administration
[0111]   One cryovial of patient's cell was removed from cryostorage and carefully thawed at
37 0C in a water bath. Under sterile conditions, 1 mL of sterile saline for injection with 5%
human serum albumin (or 1 mL of sterile IX PBS) was gently added to the cryovial
containing the cells. After the cells were carefully resuspended, the entire volume from the
cryovial was drawn and the syringe containing the vaccine was used for administration to a
patient.
EXAMPLE 14: Immunization Procedure
[0112]   To vaccinate a subject, a dose of 1.25 million dendritic cells containing vaccine
loaded particles is cryopreserved in 0.2 mL of a serum-free, 10% dimethyl sulfoxide freezing
medium (CryoStorTM CS-10, BioLife Solutinos, Inc.). Before injection, the dendritic cells is
thawed and diluted to a 1 mL with sterile saline for injection containing 5% human serum
albumin (Albuminar -25, Aventis Behring). The dilution is then transferred to a 3.0 cc
syringe for injection and using a needle no smaller than 23 gauge, which is administered
within 2 hours of the thawing. The injection can be administered subcutaneously into an area
of lymph nodes or administered intradermally.
EXAMPLE 15: Isolation of Mononuclear Cells from Whole Peripheral Blood using the
SepMate-50 System
[0113]    Sepmate-50 tubes with inserts allow for quickly layering diluted blood over the
density gradient medium (LSM), and prevents the layers from mixing. After centrifugation
with the brake on, enriched peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC's) are poured into a
fresh tube and processed as described below for future culturing
Procedure 1:
               STEP                   PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
                 1       Add 15mL of lymphocyte separation medium (LSM) to each
                                               29

  WO 2015/134606                                                     PCT/US2015/018728
                  SepMate tube by carefully, yet quickly, pipetting it through the
                  central hole of each tube insert.
               2  Pool the whole blood.
               3  Dilute the whole blood sample with twice the initial blood volume of
                  1xPBS.
               4  Add 30 mL diluted blood to the Sepmate tubes.
               5  Centrifuge for 10-15 minutes at room temperature.
               6  Pour off the top layer containing the enriched PBMC's from each
                  Sepmate tube into new centrifuge tubes.
               7  Cap tubes and centrifuge 5 minutes.
               8  Resuspend pellet in each tube with up to 1.0 mL ACK lysing buffer
                  with pipette. Repeat cycles of adding IX PBS to resuspend pellet and
                  centrifuge.
               9  Decant the supernatant, and aliquot 50 x 106 cells suspended in 15
                  mL RPMI media per flask. Place in the CO 2 incubator at 370 C for 1
                  1.5 hours.
              10  Remove flasks from incubator. Wash pellet with IX PBS.
              11  Add 15 mL complete DC Media (containing IL-4, GM-CSF, and
                  Gentamycin) and place in the 37 CO 2 incubator for 22-24 hours.
              12  On Day 2, continue with inoculation of cultures with YWCP's and
                  cytokines after the dendritic cells have incubated at 37' C for approx.
                  22 hours.
Procedure 2:
             STEP               PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
               1  Add 15mL of lymphocyte separation medium (LSM) to each
                  SepMate-50 tube by carefully, yet quickly, pipetting it through the
                  central hole of each tube insert.
               2  Pool the whole blood into a sterile 500 mL bottle or sterile 250 mL
                  conical tubes.
               3  Dilute the whole blood sample with twice the initial blood volume of
                  1xPBS in the sterile 500 mL flask, and mix gently.
               4  Add 30 mL diluted blood by pipetting it smoothly and quickly down
                  the side of the Sepmate-50 tubes.
               5  Centrifuge at 1200 g for 10-15 minutes at room temperature with the
                  brake on.
                                        30

WO 2015/134606                                                     PCT/US2015/018728
            6  Pour off the top layer containing the enriched PBMC's from each
               Sepmate tube into new sterile 50 mL centrifuge tubes.
            7  Cap tubes and centrifuge at 500 g for 5 minutes with brake on.
            8  Decant supernatant into waste bottle and resuspend pellet in each tube
               with up to 1.0 mL ACK lysing buffer with pipette.
            9  Combine into two sterile 50 mL tubes containing 5 mL of cell
               suspension each, and add 5-10 mL 1xPBS to each tube.
            10 Centrifuge again at 500 g for 5 minutes with brake on. Decant the
               supernatant and resuspend the pellets with pipette in 10 mL 1xPBS.
            11 Bring total volume in the tube(s) to 50 mL with 1xPBS
            12 Centrifuge at 200 g for 10 minutes with brake on.
            13 Decant supernatant into waste bottle, and resuspend pellet in 1xPBS
               up to the 50 mL demarcation on the tube, cap and mix well.
            14 Remove an amount of the well-mixed suspension sufficient to
               perform a cell count, and record.
            15 Centrifuge again at 200 g for 10 minutes with brake on.
            16 Decant the supernatant, and aliquot 50 x 10' cells suspended in 15
               mL RPMI media per flask.
            17 Label the cell culture flasks with the patient ID, date, and initials and
               place in the CO 2 incubator at 370 C for 1-1.5 hours.
            18 Remove flasks from incubator and return them to the biological safety
               hood.
            19 Without touching the bottom of culture flask (do not disturb the
               adherent cells on the bottom), pipette off the RPMI and discard into
               waste container.
           20  Carefully add 10 mL of 1xPBS down the inner side of each culture
               flask and rock gently.
           21  Pipette off the PBS containing any undesired non-adherent cells and
               discard into waste container.
           22  Repeat steps 20 and 21 two more times.
           23  Gently add 15 mL complete DC Media (containing IL-4, GM-CSF,
               and Gentamycin) to each flask by pipetting down the inner side of it.
           24  Write "Culture Day 1" on the flasks, and place in the 37 CO 2
               incubator for 22-24 hours.
           25  On Day 2, continue with inoculation of cultures with YWCP's and
               cytokines.
                                      31

   WO 2015/134606                                                          PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 16: Generation of Dendritic Cells Combined with Loaded YCWP's
[0114]   Following the procedures in Example 15, the following methods are performed:
       I. Addition of YCWP
              STEP                  PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
                1      To each dendritic cell culture flask, add a sufficient volume of loaded
                       YCWP at a ratio of 1:100. (50-200 ul) and incubate for 1-2 hours.
       II. Preparation And Addition of Cytokines
             STEP                   PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
               1       Add TNF-a , 1p, IL-6 and PGE2 to each culture flask,
EXAMPLE 17: Harvest of Cells, Preparation and Cryopreservation of Vaccine
Composition
[0115]   The following methods are performed:
       Harvest of cells:
              STEP                  PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
                1      Add 4.0-4.5 mL 1xPBS to each flask containing 10 mL media.
                2      Add 1.5 -2.0 mL CellStripperTM to each flask to release mature cells
                       and incubate at 37 0 C.
                3      Centrifuge and remove supernatant by decanting until "dry" pellet
                       remains.
       II. Preparation of Vaccine Composition and Cryopreservation:
              STEP                  PROCEDURE/WORK INSTRUCTIONS
                1      Resuspend cells in CryoStorTM 10, aliquot and step down freeze.
                                               32

    WO 2015/134606                                                           PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 18: Experiment in Mouse Model
[0116]     B16 murine tumor lysate loaded yeast cell wall particles was used as a vaccine for
mice. Mice not vaccinated and inoculated with one million B 16 tumor cells IV were used as
control. Three days prior to tumor challenge with the same tumor load IV, mice were
vaccinated: (i) with tumor lysate and yeast cell wall particles simply mixed; or (ii) with yeast
cell wall particles loaded with the tumor lysate. The total protein content of tumor lysate and
the number of yeast cell walls for both groups of the vaccinated mice were identical. 21 days
following inoculation with one million B16 tumor cells IV, the lungs of the mice of each
group were examined.
[0117]     Figures 6A, 6B and 6C show the results of the lungs of the mice of each group 21
days following tumor challenge.
 EXAMPLE 19: Preparing Silicate Capped Yeast Cell Wall Particles
[0118]     Yeast cell wall particles (YCWPs) were prepared and loaded with a peptide as
described in the examples above. 1 mg of YCWPs were loaded with 500 gg of the peptide.
Subsequently, the freeze dried, loaded YCWPs were suspended in 1 ml of absolute ethanol,
to which suspension 100 gl of tetraethylorthosilicate and 100 gl of a 10% aqueous ammonia
solution were added. The mixture was shaken gently for 15 minutes at room temperature.
The YCWPs were then washed thoroughly with absolute ethanol and kept in ethanol at 4 0C
until use.
EXAMPLE 20: In Vitro Leaking Assay
[0119]     The YCWPs were loaded with fluorescence labeled albumin and then a portion of
the loaded YCWPs were capped with silicate according to the example above while others
remain uncapped.
[0120]     Both the uncapped and silicate capped YCWPs loaded with fluorescence labeled
albumin were first read on a reader to obtain the initial reading to the total fluorescence
counts, and then both the uncapped and silicate capped YCWPs were shaken vigorously.
                                              33

    WO 2015/134606                                                         PCT/US2015/018728
Supernatants were taken from both the uncapped and the silicate capped YCWPs at one hour
and at two hours to obtain the fluorescence readings, detailed below.
                              PBS (control)         Uncapped YCWPs           Silicate Capped
                                                                                 YCWPs
  Initial fluorescence             8879                    59645                  175861
          counts
 Fluorescence counts
 of supernatants after             6329                    14751                  27797
     1-hour shaking
 Fluorescence counts
 of supernatants after             5944                     9893                   11700
     1-hour shaking
[0121]      As shown in the table above, after one hour of shaking, uncapped YCWPs leaked
24.73 % of the total fluorescence and silicate capped YCWPs leaked 15.8l1% of the total
fluorescence. After two hours of shaking, uncapped YCWPs leaked 16.6% of the total
fluorescence and silicate capped YCWPs leaked 6.65% of the total fluorescence. In summary
after two hours, the uncapped YCWPs lost 41.33% of the fluorescent labeled albumin while
the silicate capped YCWPs lost only 22.46% of the loaded albumin.
EXAMPLE 21: In Vivo Loading Release Assay
[0122]      Mouse macrophage Raw cells, a phagocytic monocytic cell line, were plated in 6
well plate and cultured overnight. Uncapped YCWPs and silicate capped YCWPs, both
loaded with fluorescence labeled albumin, were added into the cells on the second day
morning. After overnight culture, cells were washed several times with PBS and lysed.
Lysates were centrifuged to collect supernatants to obtain fluorescence readings. The
supernatant and pellet of the uncapped YCWPs had fluorescence counts of 1042 and 1094
respectively; whereas the supernatant and the pellet of the silicate capped YCWPs had
fluorescence counts of 1945 and 878 respectively. As such, the silicate capped YCWPs
delivered 86.6% more released albumin into the cytoplasm of the phagocytic cells than the
uncapped YCWPs did.
                                                34

    WO 2015/134606                                                      PCT/US2015/018728
EXAMPLE 22: In Vitro Phagocytosis Assay
[0123]    Mouse macrophage Raw cells were plated in 24-well plate and cultured overnight.
Uncapped YCWPs and silicate capped YCWPs, both loaded with fluorescence labeled
albumin were added into the cells on the second day morning. Cell fluorescence readings
were measured at 20 minutes, 1 hour, and 2 hours, respectively.
         Fluorescence Counts              20 minutes           1 hour            2 hours
                               10 gl          3560              3123              3193
    Uncaped                   30 gl           3485              3137              3571
                              60 gl           3579              3442              3928
                               10 gl          3499              3754              4624
 Silicate capped              30 gl           3408              4599              6213
     YCWPs          ___________                      __
                              60 gl           4408              6944              11065
[0124]    As shown in the table above, the silicate capped YCWPs delivered 82% more
loaded albumin into the phagocytic cells than the uncapped YCWPs did.
EXAMPLE 23: Mouse Survival Study
[0125]    Survival study was performed on five groups of mice, with 5 mice in each group of
Groups I-IV and 10 mice in Group V. The control group (Group I) received 0.5 X 106 B16
melanoma tumor cells by IV injection. The "regular YCWP" group (Group II) received 0.5
X 106 B16 melanoma tumor cells by IV injection and vaccination by interdermal injection
one week prior to and each week following tumor cell IV injection with uncapped YCWPs
loaded with B16 tumor lysate until week 6. The "Si capped YCWPs" group (Group III)
received 0.5 X 106 B16 melanoma tumor cells by IV injection and vaccination by interdermal
injection one week prior to and each week following tumor cell IV injection with silicate
capped YCWPs loaded with B16 tumor lysate until week 6. The "regular YCWPs + AD"
group (Group IV) received 0.5 X 106 B16 melanoma tumor cells by IV injection and
vaccination by interdermal injection one week prior to and each week following tumor cell
IV injection with uncapped YCWPs loaded with B16 tumor lysate, and GpC Oligonucleotide
and Monophosphoryl lipid A adjuvants until week 6. The "Si capped YCWP + AD group"
                                               35

(Group V) received 0.5 X 106 B16 melanoma tumor cells by IV injection and vaccination by
interdermal injection one week prior to and each week following tumor cell IV injection with
silicate capped YCWPs loaded with B 16 tumor lysate, and GpC oligonucleotide and
monophosphoryl lipid A adjuvants until week 6.
[0126]    As shown in Figure 8, all mice in the control group died in about 22 days. All mice
in the regular YCWP group died in about 25 days, all mice in the silicate capped YCWP
group died in about 35 days, and all mice in the regular YCWP and adjuvant group dies in
about 45 days. In contrast, about 40% of the mice in the silicate capped YCWP and adjuvant
group survived after 100 days.
[0127]    The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the
prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
[0128]    Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word "comprise"
and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to exclude
other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                -36-

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
            1.     A composition comprising (i) a yeast cell wall particle, (ii)
   tetraethylorthosilicate, and (iii) tumor lysate loaded within the yeast cell wall particle,
   wherein the yeast cell wall particle is modified by capping with the silicate.
 5         2.      The composition of claim 1, further comprising one or more adjuvants.
           3.      The composition of claim 2, wherein the one or more adjuvants are loaded
   within the yeast cell wall particle.
           4.      The composition of claim 2, wherein the adjuvant is monophosphoryl lipid A
   or a CpG oligonucleotide.
10         5.      The composition of any one of claims I to 4, wherein the tumor lysate is from
   melanoma tumor.
           6.      The composition of any one of claims I to 5, further comprising excipients or
   preservatives.
           7.      An isolated dendritic comprising a phagocytosed component comprising the
15 composition of any one of claims I to 6.
            8.     A vaccine comprising the composition of any one of claims I to 6 .
           9.      A method for producing a cell mixture containing a yeast cell wall particle
   loaded with tumor lysate and capped with a tetraethylorthosilicate, comprising:
                   (i)      loading tumor lysate into a yeast cell wall particle to produce a loaded
20 particle;
                   (ii)     capping the loaded particle with a tetraethylorthosilicate;
                                                   -37-

                    (iii)   freeze-drying the capped, loaded particle; and
                    (iv)    incubating the capped, loaded particle with a cell of monocytic origin
                    wherein the incubation causes the cell of monocytic origin to phagocytose the
   capped, loaded particle.
 5          10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the cell of monocytic origin is a pre-dendritic
   cell, a dendritic cell, or a partially differentiated dendritic cell.
            11.     The method of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein tumor lysate is from melanoma
   tumor.
            12.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein step (i) comprises:
10                  (a)     suspending a yeast cell wall particle and tumor lysate in a diluent and
   incubating for a period of time to allow the biological material to be absorbed by the yeast
   cell wall particle; and
                    (b)     freeze-drying the suspension to load the tumor lysate within the yeast
   cell wall particle.
15          13.     The method of claim 12, wherein steps (a) and (b) are repeated at least once.
            14.     A method for treating cancer, comprising administering the composition of
   any one of claims 1-6 to a subject.
            15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the biological material loaded yeast cell wall
   particle is further incubated with an dendritic cell prior to administration.
20          16.     The method of claim 9, wherein step (iii) comprises contacting the yeast cell
   wall particle with the silicate in the presence of ammonia such that the yeast cell wall particle
   is capped by the silicate.
                                                      -38-

          17.    Use of the composition of any one of claims I to 6 in the manufacture of a
  medicament for treating cancer.
          18.    The method of claim 14 or 15, or the use of claim 17, wherein the cancer is
  selected from the group consisting of breast cancer, small cell lung cancer, non-small cell
5 lung cancer, glioma, medulloblastoma, neuroblastoma, Wilms tumors, rhabdomyosarcoma,
  osteosarcoma, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer and ocular
  melanoma.
                                                -39-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
