  LIQUID DICYANDIAMIDE AND/OR ALKYL THIOPHOSPHORIC TRIAMIDE
   COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE IN AGRICULTURAL APPLICATIONS
                                           Abstract
        An inhibitor composition contains dicyandiamide as a nitrification inhibitor, alkyl
thiophosphoric triamide as a urease inhibitor, or a combination thereof, dissolved in a
liquid medium comprising an organic solvent selected from, among others, one or more
polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures
thereof, is useful in making fertilizer compositions and in a method of fertilizing target
plants.

                                                   1
        LIQUID DICYANDIAMIDE AND/OR ALKYL THIOPHOSPHORIC TRIAMIDE
         COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE IN AGRICULTURAL APPLICATIONS
 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]This application claims the benefit of US Provisional Patent Application No.
 61/739,869 filed December 20, 2012, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety,
 and claims the benefit of US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/834,544 filed June
 13, 2013, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The present application is a
divisional of AU 2013361160, the entire specification of which is incorporated herein
by cross-reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] This invention relates to liquid compositions comprising dicyandiamide and/or an
alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, methods for incorporating dicyandiamide into agricultural
fertilizer compositions, agricultural fertilizer compositions comprising dicyandiamide
and/or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, and the use of such compositions.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] In the agrochemical industry, farmers use various fertilizers to impart
macronutrients to plants either by application to the soil or application to plant leaves.
Nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and sulfur are macronutrients
that must be supplied to the plants and soil manually by farmers. In many crops, the
amount of nitrogen supplied is critical to the overall quality and growth of the crop.
Nitrogen is typically supplied in the form of nitrogenous, i.e., nitrogen precursor
containing, fertilizer compounds, such as urea, ammonium nitrate, or ammonium
phosphate fertilizer compounds. Due to the high water solubility of these salts,
however, applied nitrogen values may be lost due to run-off and leaching of the
nitrogenous fertilizer compounds. Once applied, the nitrogenous fertilizer compounds
are typically degraded, for example, by microorganisms present in the soil, to

nitrogenous species such as NH4 , NO2, NO3, and ammonia gas, that may be even
more readily lost through evaporation, run-off, and leaching than the fertilizer
compounds themselves. If degradation of the fertilizer compounds occurs at a rate that
is faster than the nitrogenous degradation products can be used by the plants, then the
nitrogen values in the degradation products are at increased risk of being lost.
[0004] Nitrification and/or urease inhibitors are of potential use in delaying degradation
of fertilizer compounds and thereby reducing losses of nitrogenous degradation
products that would otherwise occurred in the absence of the inhibitors. The use of
nitrification and/or urease inhibitors in combination with nitrogenous fertilizer
compounds tends to increase the amount of time the nitrogen source remains in the soil
and available for absorption by the plants, which tends to increase the effectiveness of
the fertilizer and positively impact crop yield and quality.
[0005] Aqueous end use fertilizer solutions are typically prepared in the field by diluting
commercially available concentrated fertilizer compositions with water. Commonly used
concentrated fertilizer compositions include concentrated ammonium nitrate
compositions, such as, for example, UAN 18, UAN 28, UAN 30 and UAN 32.
[0006] Dicyandiamide is potentially useful as a nitrification inhibitor in such aqueous end
use fertilizer compositions, but has very low solubility (about 41 grams per liter ("g/il")) in
water and so is difficult to incorporate into the aqueous end use fertilizer compositions,
particularly under field conditions
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] Urease inhibitors can be used with a fertilizer (i.e., incorporated into a urea
containing fertilizer, e.g., urea and urea ammonium nitrate (UAN)) to slow the
conversion of ammonium to ammonia gas and thus slow the loss of ammonia to
volatilization, thus making ammonium available to plants in the soil for longer periods of
                                              -2-

time. Nitrification inhibitors can be used with a fertilizer (i.e., incorporated into a urea
containing fertilizer, e.g., urea and urea ammonium nitrate (UAN)) to slow the process of
ammonium conversion to nitrate, and subsequently the loss of nitrate to leeching, thus
making ammonium available to plants in the soil for longer periods of time. Ammonium
is one of the main forms of nitrogen that can be utilized by plants. Increasing the
amount of time that the nitrogen is available to the plant increases the effectiveness of
the fertilizer which positively impacts crop yield and quality.
[0008] Fertilizers, in one embodiment, are common water soluble inorganic fertilizers
that provide nutrients such as phosphorus-based, nitrogen-based, potassium-based or
sulphur-based fertilizers. Examples of such fertilizers include: for nitrogen as the
nutrient: nitrates and or ammonium salts such as ammonium nitrate, including in
combination with urea e.g. as Uram type materials, calcium ammonium nitrate,
ammonium suphate nitrate, ammonium phosphates, particularly mono-ammonium
phosphate, di-ammonium phosphate and ammonium polyphosphate, ammonium
sulphate, and the less commonly used calcium nitrate, sodium nitrate, potassium nitrate
and ammonium chloride. It is understood that a fertilizer composition can comprise one
or a combination of the fertilizers described herein.
[0009] A typical urease inhibitor, NBPT (N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide), however,
faces drawbacks in its use as NBPT is extremely difficult to handle. NBPT is a sticky,
waxy, heat and water sensitive material, which cannot be used in its solid form, as it is
used at low concentrations making it difficult to evenly distribute on urea prills (i.e., large
granules) and in soil. In order to evenly distribute the NBPT onto the urea, the NBPT
should be dispersed into a carrier prior to being sprayed onto the urea. Thus, the use of
a solvent system containing the NBPT is desirable as, in its liquid form, the solvent
system is capable of distributing the NBPT into granular urea (e.g., urea prills) and into
liquid fertilizers containing urea. By introducing the NBPT to liquid fertilizers containing
urea (for example, urea-ammonium nitrate solutions or UAN) in a solvent system, the
NBPT is capable of being better dispersed in the liquid fertilizer.
                                             -3-

[0010] Dicyandiamide is useful as a nitrification inhibitor in aqueous agricultural
applications, e.g., end use fertilizer compositions, but similar to urease inhibitors face
similar drawbacks. Nitrification inhibitors, such as dicyandiamide, generally have very
low solubility (about 41 grams per liter ("g/il")) in water and so it is difficult to incorporate
into the aqueous end use fertilizer compositions, particularly under field conditions. As
nitrification inhibitors, such as dicyandiamide, have a generally low solubility, they are
used at low concentrations in water making it difficult to evenly distribute on urea
containing prills (i.e., large granules) and in soil. In order to evenly distribute the
dicyandiamide onto the urea-containing prills or granules, dicyandiamide should be
dispersed into a solvent carrier prior to being sprayed onto the urea. Thus, the use of a
solvent system containing dicyandiamide (herein, also termed "DCD") is desirable as, in
its liquid form, the solvent system is capable of distributing the dicyandiamide onto urea
granules or prills, urea ammonium nitrate granules or prills or, otherwise, urea
containing granules or prills, and into liquid fertilizers containing urea or urea ammonium
nitrate. By introducing the dicyandiamide to liquid fertilizers containing urea (for
example, urea-ammonium nitrate solutions or UAN) in a solvent system, the
dicyandiamide is capable of being better dispersed in the liquid fertilizer.
[0011] In one embodiment, concentrated fertilizer compositions include concentrated
ammonium nitrate compositions, such as, for example, UAN 18, UAN 28, UAN 30 and
UAN 32.
[0012] Thus, it is desirable to have a solvent system containing alkyl thiophosphoric
triamide, and in particular, (N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide), that has a favorable
toxicological and/or ecological profile and desirable characteristics in terms of low
volatility, biodegradability or ready biodegradability (i.e., readily biodegradable), low
toxicity or low hazard level. It is desirable to have a solvent system containing
dicyandiamide, that has a favorable toxicological and/or ecological profile and desirable
characteristics in terms of low volatility, biodegradability or ready biodegradability (i.e.,
readily biodegradable), low toxicity or low hazard level. It is also desirable to have a
                                               -4-

solvent system containing a combination of dicyandiamide and an alkyl thiophosphoric
triamide, in particular, (N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide), that has a favorable
toxicological and/or ecological profile and desirable characteristics in terms of low
volatility, biodegradability or ready biodegradability (i.e., readily biodegradable), low
toxicity or low hazard level.
[0013] The present invention described herein will become apparent from the following
detailed description and examples, which comprises in one aspect, a composition for
use in agricultural applications comprising at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl
thiophosphoric triamide, which is dissolved in a liquid medium comprising an organic
solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol
solvents, and mixtures thereof.
[0014] In another aspect, described herein are methods of making a solid or
concentrated liquid fertilizer compositions comprising treating one or more nitrogenous
fertilizer compounds with an inhibitor composition that comprises at least one of a
dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide. The inhibitor composition, in one
embodiment, is dissolved in a liquid medium comprising an organic solvent selected
from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures
thereof. The term treating, in one embodiment, includes spray applying the inhibitor
composition with the one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds. The term treating,
in one embodiment, includes spray contacting the inhibitor composition with the one or
more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds.
[0015] In yet another aspect, described herein are concentrated liquid fertilizer
compositions comprising, based on weight of the composition: (a) up to about 99 wt%,
by weight of composition, of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, (b) at least
one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, (c) an organic solvent
selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and
mixtures thereof, and (d) water.
[0016] In yet another aspect, described herein are solid or substantially solid fertilizer
                                              -5-

compositions comprising: (a) solid particles of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer
compounds, and (b) an inhibitor composition comprising at least one of a dicyandiamide
or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide supported on at least a portion of the solid particles.
[0017] In another aspect, described herein are methods of making an aqueous end use
fertilizer composition comprising incorporating: (a) one or more nitrogenous fertilizer
compounds, and (b)an inhibitor composition that comprises at least one of a
dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, the inhibitor composition dissolved in
a liquid medium comprising an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents,
amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof, in an aqueous
medium.
[0018] In another aspect, described herein are aqueous end use fertilizer composition
comprising, based on weight of the composition: (a) up to about 99 wt%, based on the
weight of the composition, of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, (b) at least
one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, (c) an organic solvent
selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and
mixtures thereof, and (d), optionally, water.
[0019] In another aspect, described herein are methods for fertilizing target plants,
comprising applying an aqueous end use fertilizer composition that comprises: (a) one
or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, (b) at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl
thiophosphoric triamide, (c) an organic solvent selected from dimethyl sulfoxide,
dimethyl formamide, the dimethyl ester of succinic acid, dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic
acid, the dimethyl ester of glutaric acid, the dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and
the dimethyl ester of adipic acid, diethylene triamine, or monoethanolamine, methyl-5
(dimethylamino)-2-methyl-oxopentanoate, dimethylaminoethanol, triethanol amine, a
heterocyclic alcohol according to structure (111):
                                              -6-

                       CH 2 -OH
         0         0
        H3 C       CH 3                   (III),
[0020] and mixtures thereof, and, optionally, (d) water, to the target plants or to an
environment for the target plants. It is understood that the term heterocyclic alcohol
includes dioxolane compounds.
[0021] In one embodiment, the alkyl thiophosphoric triamide is N-(n-butyl)
thiophosphoric triamide. In another embodiment, the liquid medium further comprises a
solvent selected from the group consisting of: (a) at least one dioxolane compound of
formula (III):
                     CH  2   ]- OH
             6  <Ry
                                     (1||
[0022] wherein R6 and R7 individually comprises a hydrogen, an alkyl group, an alkenyl
group, or a phenyl group, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 10; b) at least one dibasic
ester; c) at least one compound of formula (Ila):
        R30OC-A-CONR 4 R5
                                (Ila),
[0023] wherein R3 comprises a C1-C36 alkyl group; wherein R4 and R5 individually
comprise a C1-C36 alkyl group, wherein R4 and R5 can optionally together form a ring;
and wherein A is a linear or a branched divalent C2-C6 alkyl group; d) at least one
alkyldimethylamide; e) at least one alkyl lactate; f) ethyl levulinate; g) at least one
                                                 -7-

alkyoxyalcohol, ether alcohol, amine alcohol, amino alcohol or alcohol; h) at least one
glycerine or glycerine derivative; i) at least one alkylene carbonate;  j) dimethylsulfoxide;
and k) any combination thereof. In one embodiment, the organic solvent is
dimethylsulfoxide.
[0024] In another aspect, the present invention is directed to a nitrification inhibitor
composition comprising dicyandiamide dissolved in a liquid medium that comprises an
organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, dibasic esters, amines, amino
alcohols, heterocyclic alcohols, and mixtures thereof.
[0025] In yet another aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of making a
solid or concentrated liquid fertilizer composition comprising treating one or more
nitrogenous fertilizer compounds with a nitrification inhibitor composition that comprises
dicyandiamide dissolved in a liquid medium that comprises an organic solvent selected
from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures
thereof.
[0026] In a further aspect, the present invention is directed to a concentrated liquid
fertilizer composition comprising, based on 100 parts by weight of the composition:
(a)      up to about 99 parts by weight of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
(b)      dicyandiamide,
(c)      an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents,
         heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof, and
(d)      water.
[0027] In another aspect, the present invention is directed to a concentrated solid
fertilizer composition comprising:
(a)      solid particles of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, and
(b)      dicyandiamide supported on at least a portion of the solid particles.
                                              -8-

[0028] In yet another aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of making an
aqueous end use fertilizer composition comprising incorporating:
(a       one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, and
(b)      a nitrification inhibitor composition that comprises dicyandiamide dissolved in a
         liquid medium that comprises an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic
         solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof,
in an aqueous medium.
[0029] In another aspect, the present invention is directed to an aqueous end use
fertilizer composition comprising, based on 100 parts by weight of the composition:
(a)      up to about 99 parts by weight of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
(b)      dicyandiamide,
(c)      an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents,
         heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof, and
(d)      water.
[0030] In a further aspect, the present invention is directed to a method for fertilizing
target plants, comprising applying an aqueous end use fertilizer composition that
comprises:
(a)      one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds
(b)      dicyandiamide,
(c)      an organic solvent selected from dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, the
         dimethyl ester of succinic acid, dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic acid, the dimethyl
         ester of glutaric acid, the dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and the dimethyl
         ester of adipic acid, diethylene triamine, or monoethanolamine, methyl-5
         (dimethylamino)-2-methyl-oxopentanoate, dimethylaminoethanol, triethanol
         amine, a heterocyclic alcohol according to structure (111):
                                                -9-

                             CH 2 -OH
                0         0
               H3C       CH3
       and mixtures thereof, and
(d)    water,
       to the target plants or to an environment for the target plants.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031] As used herein, the term "alkyl" means a saturated straight chain, branched
chain, or cyclic hydrocarbon radical, including but not limited to, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl,
iso-propyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl, pentyl, n-hexyl, and cyclohexyl.
[0032] As used herein, the term "aryl" means a monovalent unsaturated hydrocarbon
radical containing one or more six-membered carbon rings in which the unsaturation
may be represented by three conjugated double bonds, which may be substituted one
or more of carbons of the ring with hydroxy, alkyl, alkenyl, halo, haloalkyl, or amino,
including but not limited to, phenoxy, phenyl, methylphenyl, dimethylphenyl,
trimethylphenyl, chlorophenyl, trichloromethylphenyl, aminophenyl, and tristyrylphenyl.
[0033] As used herein, the term "alkylene" means a divalent saturated straight or
branched chain hydrocarbon radical, such as for example, methylene, dimethylene,
trimethylene.
[0034] As used herein, the terminology "(Cr-Cs)" in reference to an organic group,
wherein r and s are each integers, indicates that the group may contain from r carbon
atoms to s carbon atoms per group.
[0035] Dicyandiamide is a known compound according to formula (1):
                                             -  10-

                        NH
        N     C
                   N        NH2
                   H                      (I).
[0036] Dicyandiamide, also known as "2-cyanoguanidine", is typically made by treating
cyanamide with base and is commercially available.
[0037] In one embodiment, the compositions according to the present invention
comprise a urease inhibitor, such as N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide ("NBPT") or
ammonium thiosulfate, a nitrification inhibitor, or a combination of both a urease inhibitor
and a nitrification inhibitor.
[0038] In one embodiment, alkyl thiophosphoric triamide is N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric
triamide. The at least one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide or
combination thereof can be present in the composition at a lower range of 5% by weight
of the composition. In another embodiment, at least one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide
and/or dicyandiamide can be present in the composition at a lower range of 6%, or 8%,
or 10% or 12 % or 14%, by weight of the composition. In another embodiment, the at
least one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide can be present in the
composition in an amount between about 7% by weight of the composition to about
13% by weight of the composition. . In another embodiment, the at least one of alkyl
thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide can be present in the composition in an
amount between about 8% by weight of the composition to about 12% by weight of the
composition.
[0039] The at least one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide can be present
in the composition in an amount between about 0.5 % by weight of the composition and
about 50 % by weight of the composition or, in another embodiment, can be present in
the composition in an amount between about 1 % by weight of the composition and
about 40 % by weight of the composition, and, in another embodiment, can be present
in the composition in an amount between about 0.5 % by weight of the composition and
                                           - 11 -

about 20 % by weight of the composition. In one particular embodiment, the at least
one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide is present in the composition in an
amount between about 1 % by weight of the composition and about 30 % by weight of
the composition. The at least one of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide or dicyandiamide
means that alkyl thiophosphoric triamide can be solely present, dicyandiamide can be
solely present, or a combination of alkyl thiophosphoric triamide and dicyandiamide is
present.
[0040] Compounds suitable as the organic solvent component of the composition and
methods of the present invention are those polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents,
heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof that are liquid at temperatures of
from 20 to 500C, and that do not react with dicyandiamide under anticipated
manufacturing, storage, and use conditions. In one embodiment, the solvent comprises
a polar aprotic solvent, amine solvent, heterocyclic alcohol solvent, or mixtures thereof
in which dicyandiamide has a solubility at 25       OC of greater than or equal to 50 grams per
liter (g/i), more typically greater than or equal to 200 g/l.
[0041] Suitable polar aprotic organic solvents include, for example, dichloromethane,
dimethyl acetamide, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, ethyl acetate,
hexamethylphosphoramide, dimethyl sulfone, sulfolane, 1,3-dimethyl-2-imidazoidinone,
1,3-dimethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2(1 H)-pyrimidone, methyl acetate, ethyl lactate,
methylpyrrolidone, tetrahydrofuran, propylene carbonate, and dibasic ester solvents.
[0042] Suitable dibasic ester solvents include, for example, dialkyl esters of dicarboxylic
acids, more typically, the di(C 1 -C 12 )alkyl esters of saturated linear or branched (C2
C8 )aliphatic carboxylic acids or a mixture thereof. In one embodiment, the dibasic ester
component comprises one or more compounds according to structure (11):
         ROOC-A-CONR 2 R3              (II)
wherein:
         A is a divalent linear or branched (C2-C8)aliphatic group, and
                                                - 12-

        R1 , R2 , and R3 are each independently (C 1 -C 12 )alkyl, (C 1 -C 12 )aryl, (C1 -C12 )alkaryl
        or (C1-C12)arylalkyl, and R2 and R3 may each optionally be substituted with one or
        more hydroxyl groups.
[0043] In one embodiment, the dibasic ester solvent component of the compositions and
methods of the present invention comprises one or more dimethyl esters of saturated
linear or branched (C4-C6)aliphatic carboxylic acids, such the dimethyl ester of succinic
acid, dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic acid, the dimethyl ester of glutaric acid, the
dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and the dimethyl ester of adipic acid, and mixtures
thereof. In one embodiment, the dibasic ester component comprises the dimethyl ester
of succinic acid, the dimethyl ester of glutaric acid, and optionally, the dimethyl ester of
adipic acid, In another embodiment, the dibasic ester component comprises the
dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic acid, the dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and
optionally, the dimethyl ester of adipic acid.
[0044] In one embodiment, the dibasic ester solvent component of the compositions and
methods of the present invention comprises one or more dialkyl esters of saturated
linear or branched (C4-C6)aliphatic carboxylic acids, such the dialkyl ester of succinic
acid, dialkyl ester of ethylsuccinic acid, the dialkyl ester of glutaric acid, the dialkyl ester
of methylglutaric acid, and the dialkyl ester of adipic acid, and mixtures thereof. In one
embodiment, the dibasic ester component comprises the dialkyl ester of succinic acid,
the dialkyl ester of glutaric acid, and optionally, the dimethyl ester of adipic acid, In
another embodiment, the dibasic ester component comprises the dialkyl dimethyl ester
of ethylsuccinic acid, the dialkyl ester of methylglutaric acid, and optionally, the dialkyl
ester of adipic acid. Each alkyl group in the dialkyl group, one embodiment, individually
comprise a C1-C8 alkyl. In another embodiment, each alkyl group in the dialkyl group,
one embodiment, individually comprise a C1-C4 alkyl. In another embodiment, each
alkyl group in the dialkyl group, one embodiment, individually comprise a C1-C6 alkyl.
[0045] Suitable amine solvents include primary amines, including monoalkylamines,
                                             - 13-

such as propylamine, secondary amines, including dialkyl amines and diaryl amines,
such as dimethylamine and diphenylamine, and tertiary amines, such as diethylene
triamine and methyl-5-(dimethylamino)-2-methyl-oxopentanoate.
[0046] In one embodiment, the amine solvent component of the compositions and
methods of the present invention is selected from aliphatic or aromatic primary,
secondary, or tertiary amines that do not comprise any functional group other than one
or more amino groups.
[0047] In one embodiment, the amine solvent component of the compositions and
methods of the present invention is selected from aliphatic or aromatic primary,
secondary, or tertiary amines may optionally further comprise one or more additional
functional groups, such as hydroxyalkyl groups, hydroxyl groups, carbonyl groups, or
alkyl ester groups, other than one or more amino groups.
[0048] In one embodiment, the organic solvent component of the compositions and
methods of the present invention comprises an amino alcohol. Compounds suitable as
the amino alcohol solvent component of the compositions and methods of the present
invention are those compounds that comprise at least one primary, secondary, or
tertiary amino moiety per molecule and at least one hydroxyalkyl moiety per molecule,
more typically In one embodiment, the amino alcohol is a linear, branched, or cyclic,
saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon that is substituted on at least one carbon atom
with an amino group and on at least one other carbon atom with hydroxyalkyl or
hydroxyl group, such as monoethanolamine, ethylaminoethanol, dimethylaminoethanol,
isopropylaminoethanol, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, methylaminoethanol,
aminopropanol, methylaminopropanol, dimethylaminopropanol, aminobutanol,
dimethylaminobutanol, aminobutanediol, trihydroxymethylaminoethane,
diethylaminopropanediol, 1-amino-cyclopentane methanol, and aminobenzyl alcohol, or
a heterocyclic ring that comprises at least one nitrogen atom as a ring member and/or is
substituted on at least one carbon atom with an amino group and that is substituted on
at least one other carbon atom with a hydroxyalkyl or hydroxyl group, such as
                                           - 14 -

methylaminomethyl-1,3-dioxolane.
[0049] Suitable heterocyclic alcohol solvents include, for example, 5- or 6-membered
heterocyclic rings that include 1 or 2 oxygen atoms as ring member, that are substituted
on at least one carbon atom of the ring with a (C1 -C6)hydroxyalkyl group, and that may
optionally be substituted on one or more carbon atoms of the ring with one or more (C1
C4)alkyl groups. It is understood that the term heterocyclic alcohol includes dioxolane
compounds. In one embodiment, the heterocyclic alcohol component of the present
invention comprises a one or more compounds selected from heterocyclic alcohols
according to structures (111), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII):
                     n
                           OH
             O                        (111)
         wherein n = 1 or 2,
           0                                            0
                           OH                        KOH
             O                        (IV)              0                    (V)
                                                                    OH
                               OH     (VI)           H3 C   CH3              (VI).
[0050] In one embodiment, the organic solvent component of the composition and
methods of the present invention comprises one or more polar aprotic solvents, one or
more dibasic ester compounds according to structure (II), one or more amino alcohols,
one or more tertiary amines, one or more heterocyclic alcohols according to structure
(III), or a mixture thereof.
                                               - 15-

[0051] In one embodiment, the organic solvent component of the composition and
methods of the present invention comprises dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, the
dimethyl ester of succinic acid, dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic acid, the dimethyl ester
of glutaric acid, the dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and the dimethyl ester of
adipic acid, diethylene triamine, or monoethanolamine, methyl-5-(dimethylamino)-2
methyl-oxopentanoate, dimethylaminoethanol, triethanol amine, a heterocyclic alcohol
according to structure (111), or a mixture thereof.
[0052] In one embodiment, the organic solvent component of the composition and
methods of the present invention comprises dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide,
diethylene triamine, monoethanolamine, or a mixture thereof.
[0053] In one embodiment, the organic solvent component of the composition and
methods of the present invention comprises dimethyl sulfoxide.
[0054]
[0055] In one embodiment, a compound utilized as the solvent or as a component in the
solvent blend is a compound of general formula (11):
        R30OC-A-CONR 4 R5
                              (II),
[0056] According to one embodiment, the expression "compound" denotes any
compound corresponding to the general formula (II). In other embodiments, the term
"compound" also refers to mixtures of several molecules corresponding to general
formula (II). It may therefore be a molecule of formula (II) or a mixture of several
molecules of formula (II), wherein both fall under the definition of the term "compound"
when referring to formula (II).
[0057] The R3, R4 and R5 groups can be, in some embodiments, identical or, in other
embodiment, different. In one embodiment, may be groups chosen from C1-C20 alkyl,
aryl, alkaryl or arylalkyl groups or the phenyl group. In another embodiment, may be
                                             - 16-

groups chosen from C1-C12 alkyl, aryl, alkaryl or arylalkyl groups or the phenyl group.
Mention is made especially of Rhodiasolv@ PolarClean (Manufactured by Rhodia Inc. of
Cranbury, NJ). The R4 and R5 groups may optionally be substituted. In one particular
embodiment, the groups are substituted with hydroxyl groups.
[0058] In one embodiment,        R3 group is chosen from methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n
butyl, isobutyl, n-pentyl, isopentyl, isoamyl, n-hexyl, cyclohexyl, 2-ethylbutyl, n-octyl,
isooctyl, 2-ethylhexyl, tridecyl groups.
[0059] R4 and R5 groups, which are identical or different, in one embodiment, may
especially be chosen from methyl, ethyl, propyl (n-propyl), isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, n
pentyl, amyl, isoamyl, hexyl, cyclohexyl or hydroxyethyl groups. The R4 and R5 groups
may also be such that they form, together with the nitrogen atom, a morpholine,
piperazine or piperidine group. According to some embodiments, R4 and R5 are each
methyl, or R4 and R5 are each ethyl, or R4 and R5 are each hydroxyethyl.
[0060] According to one embodiment, if A comprises a linear group of formula -- CH 2 -
CH 2-- and/or of formula -- CH 2-- CH 2 -- CH 2-- CH 2-- and/or of formula --( CH 2)8-- then it is
a mixture of A groups. According to one particular embodiment, if A is linear, then it is a
mixture of A groups, for example a mixture of two or three -- CH 2 -- CH 2 -- (ethylene); -
CH 2 -- CH 2 -- CH 2 -- (n-propylene); and -- CH 2 -- CH 2 -- CH 2-- CH 2-- (n-butylene) groups (or
isomers thereof).
[0061] According to a first particular embodiment of the invention, the A group is a
divalent linear alkyl group chosen from the groups of the following formulae: -- CH 2 -
CH 2 -- (ethylene); -- CH 2-- CH 2-- CH 2 -- (n-propylene); -- CH 2 -- CH 2-- CH 2-- CH 2-- (n
butylene), and mixtures thereof.
[0062] In one embodiment, the inhibitor composition of the present invention comprises,
based on 100 parts by weight ("pbw") of the composition:
[0063] from about 4 to about 45 pbw, more typically from about 10 to about 42 pbw, and
even more typically from about 20 to about 40 pbw dicyandiamide, and
                                                - 17-

[0064] from about 55 to about 96 pbw, more typically from about 58 to about 90 pbw,
and even more typically from about 60 to about 80 pbw of the organic solvent.
[0065] In one embodiment, the inhibitor composition of the present invention comprises
one or more urease inhibitors, such as, for example, NBPT or ammonium thiosulfate.
[0066] The nitrogenous fertilizer compound is treated with the inhibitor composition by
contacting the nitrogenous fertilizer composition with the inhibitor composition described
herein (e.g., nitrification inhibitor or urease inhibitor or a combination of both). The
nitrogenous fertilizer composition may be in solid or liquid form.
[0067] Suitable nitrogenous fertilizers are those containing a nitrogenous compound
such as urea, nitrate salts, ammonium salt, or a mixture thereof, such as ammonium
nitrate, ammonium sulfate, ammonium thiosulfate, ammonium polysulfide, ammonium
phosphates, ammonium chloride, ammonium bicarbonate, anhydrous ammonia,
calcium nitrate, nitrate soda, calcium cyanamide. In one embodiment, the nitrogenous
fertilizer comprises ammonium nitrate. Suitable ammonium nitrate-containing fertilizers
include, for example, UAN 18, UAN 28, and UAN 30.
[0068] In one embodiment, the nitrogenous fertilizer composition is in solid particulate
form, and the contacting of the nitrogenous fertilizer composition with the inhibitor
composition is conducted by, for example, spraying the composition of the present
invention on the particles of solid fertilizer composition.
[0069] In one embodiment, the concentrated fertilizer composition of the present
invention is a solid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition that comprises, based on
100 pbw of the composition:
         from about 60 pbw to about 99.999, more typically from about 70 pbw to about
99.999, and even more typically from about 80 pbw to about 99.999 solid particles of
one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, and
         from about 0.001 to about 40 pbw, more typically from about 0.001 to about 30
                                               - 18-

pbw, and even more typically from about 0.001 to about 20 pbw, dicyandiamide.
[0070] In one embodiment, the solid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition of the
present invention further comprises one or more urease inhibitors, more typically NBPT.
[0071] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention is
made by combining the inhibitor composition of the present invention with a solid
nitrogenous fertilizer to form a solid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition and
subsequently dissolving the solid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition in an
aqueous medium, typically water, in a ratio of up to about 500 pbw, more typically from
100 to 500 pbw and even more typically from about 100 to about 300 pbw, of the
aqueous medium per 1 pbw of the solid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition.
[0072] In one embodiment, the fertilizer compound is in liquid form and the contacting of
the fertilizer composition with the inhibitor composition is conducted by mixing the
inhibitor composition with the liquid fertilizer composition.
[0073] In one embodiment, the concentrated fertilizer composition of the present
invention is a concentrated liquid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer composition that
comprises, based on 100 pbw of the composition:
        from about 20 to about 99.989 pbw, more typically from about 30 to about 99.985
pbw, and even more typically from about 40 to about 99.98 pbw of one or more
nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
        from about 0.001 to 40 pbw, more typically from about 0.005 to 30 pbw, and even
more typically from about 0.01 to 20 pbw dicyandiamide, and
        from about 0.01 to 60 pbw, more typically from about 0.01 to about 40 pbw, and
even more typically from about 0.01 to about 30 pbw of the organic solvent.
[0074] In one embodiment, the concentrated liquid nitrification-inhibited fertilizer
composition of the present invention further comprises one or more urease inhibitors,
more typically NBPT.
                                               - 19-

[0075] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention is
made by combining the inhibitor composition of the present invention with a
concentrated nitrogenous fertilizer to form a concentrated liquid nitrification-inhibited
fertilizer composition and subsequently diluting the concentrated liquid nitrification
inhibited fertilizer composition with an aqueous medium, typically water in a ratio of up
to about 500 pbw, more typically from about 10 to about 500 pbw and even more
typically from about 100 to about 300 pbw, of the aqueous medium per 1 pbw
concentrated liquid nitrogenous fertilizer composition.
[0076] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention is
made by combining the inhibitor composition of the present invention, a solid or
concentrated liquid nitrogenous fertilizer, and an aqueous medium.
[0077] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention is
an aqueous liquid composition that comprises water, one or more nitrogenous fertilizer
compounds, and dicyandiamide, typically in an amount of from 2 x 10-6 pbw to about4
pbw dicyandiamide per 100 pbw of the end use fertilizer composition.
[0078] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention
comprises water and based on 100 parts by weight of the composition:
         from about 0.04 to about 10 pbw, more typically from about 0.06 to about 10
pbw, and even more typically from about 0.08 pbw to about 10 pbw to of one or more
nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
         from about 2 x 10-6 to about 4 pbw, more typically from about 1 x 10-5 to about 3
pbw, and even more typically from about 2 x 10-4 to about 2 pbw dicyandiamide, and
         from about 2 x 10-4 to about 6 pbw, more typically from about 2 x 10 -4 to about 4
pbw, and even more typically from about 2 x 10-4 to about 3 pbw of the organic solvent.
[0079] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention
comprises one or more urease inhibitors, more typically NBPT, alone or in combination
                                            - 20 -

with the nitrification inhibitor.
[0080] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition of the present invention
comprises from about 0.001 to about 5 pbw, more typically from about 0.01 to about 2
pbw dicyandiamide per 100 pbw of the one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds.
[0081] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition is applied to target plants
or to an environment for the target plants, i.e., to ground on or within which the target
plants are growing or to be grown, at a rate of from about 0.01 pounds to about 5
pounds of the fertilizer composition, more typically from about 0.05 pounds to about 2
pounds of the fertilizer composition, per 100 square feet of ground.
[0082] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition is applied to target plants
or to an environment for the target plants at a rate effective to provide a dosage of
nitrogenous fertilizer compound of from about 0.01 pounds to about 5 pounds of
fertilizer compound, more typically from about 0.05 pounds to 2 pounds of fertilizer
compound, per 100 square feet of ground.
[0083] In one embodiment, the end use fertilizer composition is applied to target plants
or to an environment for the target plants at a rate effective to provide a dosage of
dicyandiamide of from about 0.01 pounds to 5 pounds of dicyandiamide, more typically
from about 0.05 pounds to 2 pounds of dicyandiamide, per 1000 square feet of ground.
[0084] The composition of the present invention provides improved ease of handling of
dicyandiamide, improved solubility characteristics, low toxicity of the organic solvents;
good storage characteristics, and excellent miscibility with aqueous compositions, such
as aqueous nitrogenous fertilizer formulations.
Example 1
                                           -  21 -

[0085] The composition of Example 1 was made by dissolving 30 pbw dicyandiamide
("DCD") in 70 pbw dimethyl sulfoxide ("DMSO").
[0086] Samples of the 30 DCD/70 DMSO solution were analyzed by NMR spectroscopy
immediately after formation and at 3 weeks after formation and were in each case found
to contain no evidence of any reaction having occurred between the DCD and the
DMSO.
Samples 30 DCD/70 DMSO solution were stored at -160C, 40C, RT,45 and 540C and
subjected to freeze-thaw cycling (cycling between 25 C and -12 0C, with a 12 hour
dwell at each temperature extreme and an 8 hour ramp between the temperature
extremes) and the stability of the solution was evaluated after 1 week, after 2 weeks,
and after 1 month of storage under each of the storage conditions and was found to be
stable under each of the storage conditions.
[0087] Samples of 5 wt%, 10 wt%, and 20 wt% of the 30 DCD/70 DMSO solution in
UAN 28, 32, and 34 were made and found to be stable at room temperature for over 2
months.
Examples 2, 3, and 4
[0088] The composition of Example 2 was made by dissolving 21 pbw DCD in 79 pbw
monoethanol amine.
[0089] The composition of Example 3 was made by dissolving 12 pbw DCD in a mixture
of 62 pbw of a mixture of methyl-5-(dimethylamino)-2-methyl-oxopentanoate,, 9 pbw
propylene carbonate, and 17 pbw water
[0090] The composition of Example 4 was made by dissolving 30 pbw DCD and 15 pbw
N-(n-butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide in 55 pbw dimethyl sulfoxide.
                                            - 22 -

[0091] Each of the compositions of Examples 2, 3, and 4 was analyzed by NMR
spectroscopy immediately after formation as were in each case found to be free of
evidence of any reaction having occurred between the DCD and the respective organic
solvent system. Each of the compositions of Examples 2, 3, and 4 was found to be
stable after storage at room temperature for at least one month.
Example 5
[0092] NBPT (50 wt%, by weight of mixture) in DMSO (50 wt%) samples were put
through stability testing at -160C, 40C, 250C, 450C, 540C and subjected to freeze-thaw
cycling (cycling between 25 C and -12     0C, with a 12 hour dwell at each temperature
extreme and an 8 hour ramp between the temperature extremes). The stability of the
sample was evaluated after two weeks. All the samples were observed to remained in 1
phase, although the samples became darker at higher temperatures.
                                            - 23 -

                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A composition for use in agricultural applications comprising at least one of a
dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, dissolved in a liquid medium
comprising an organic solvent comprising a polar aprotic solvent, an amine solvent, a
heterocyclic alcohol solvent or a mixture thereof.
2.      The composition of claim 1 wherein the alkyl thiophosphoric triamide is N-(n
butyl)-thiophosphoric triamide.
3.      The composition of claim 1 wherein the organic solvent comprises:
(a) at least one dioxolane compound of formula (Ia):
              CH 2 ]- OH
          Ry
    6
                         (Ia),
wherein R6 and R7 individually comprises a hydrogen, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group,
or a phenyl group, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 10
b) at least one dibasic ester;
c) at least one compound of formula (Ila):
                                            - 24 -

 R3 0OC-A-CONR 4 R5
                        (Ila),
wherein R3 comprises a C1-C36 alkyl group; wherein R4 and R5 individually comprise a
C1-C36    alkyl group, wherein R4 and R5 can optionally together form a ring; and wherein
A is a linear or a branched divalent C2-C6 alkyl group;
d) at least one alkyldimethylamide;
e) at least one alkyl lactate;
f) ethyl levulinate;
g) at least one alkyoxyalcohol, ether alcohol, amine alcohol, amino alcohol or alcohol;
h) at least one glycerine or glycerine derivative;
 i) at least one alkylene carbonate;
j) dimethylsulfoxide; or
 k) any combination thereof.
4. The composition of claim wherein the organic solvent is dimethyl sulfoxide.
5. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polar aprotic solvent is selected from the
group consisting of dichloromethane, dimethyl acetamide, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl
sulfoxide, ethyl acetate, hexamethylphosphoramide, dimethyl sulfone, sulfolane, 1,3
dimethyl-2-imidazoidinone, 1,3-dimethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2(1H)-pyrimidone, methyl
                                            - 25 -

acetate, ethyl lactate, methylpyrrolidone, tetrahydrofuran, propylene carbonate, and
dibasic ester solvents.
6.      A method of making a solid or concentrated liquid fertilizer composition
comprising treating one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds with an inhibitor
composition that comprises at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric
triamide, the inhibitor composition dissolved in a liquid medium comprising an organic
solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol
solvents, and mixtures thereof.
7.      The method of claim 6 wherein the alkyl thiophosphoric triamide is N-(n-butyl)
thiophosphoric triamide.
8.      The method of claim 6 wherein the solvent comprises:
(a) at least one dioxolane compound of formula (la):
              CH 2 ]- OH
    6
         <Ry
                         (1a),
wherein R6 and R7 individually comprises a hydrogen, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group,
or a phenyl group, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 10
b) at least one dibasic ester;
c) at least one compound of formula (Ila):
                                            - 26 -

 R3 0OC-A-CONR 4 R5
                        (Ila),
wherein R3 comprises a C1-C36 alkyl group; wherein R4 and R5 individually comprise a
C1-C36    alkyl group, wherein R4 and R5 can optionally together form a ring; and wherein
A is a linear or a branched divalent C2-C6 alkyl group;
d) at least one alkyldimethylamide;
e) at least one alkyl lactate;
f) ethyl levulinate;
g) at least one alkyoxyalcohol, ether alcohol, amine alcohol, amino alcohol or alcohol;
h) at least one glycerine or glycerine derivative;
 i) at least one alkylene carbonate;
j) dimethylsulfoxide; or
 k) any combination thereof.
9. The method of claim 6 wherein the organic solvent is dimethyl sulfoxide.
 10. The method of claim 6 wherein the polar aprotic solvent is selected from the group
consisting of dichloromethane, dimethyl acetamide, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl
sulfoxide, ethyl acetate, hexamethylphosphoramide, dimethyl sulfone, sulfolane, 1,3
dimethyl-2-imidazoidinone, 1,3-dimethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2(1H)-pyrimidone, methyl
                                            - 27 -

acetate, ethyl lactate, methylpyrrolidone, tetrahydrofuran, propylene carbonate, and
dibasic ester solvents.
11.     A concentrated liquid fertilizer composition comprising, based on 100 parts by
weight of the composition:
(a)     up to about 99 parts by weight of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
(b)     at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide,
(c)     an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents,
        heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof, and
(d)     water.
12. The liquid fertilizer composition of claim 11 wherein the organic solvent comprises:
(a) at least one dioxolane compound of formula (la):
              CH2     OH
         <Ry
    6
                          (Ia),
wherein R6 and R7 individually comprises a hydrogen, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group,
or a phenyl group, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 10
b) at least one dibasic ester;
c) at least one compound of formula (Ila):
R3 0OC-A-CONR 4 R5
                                            - 28 -

                         (lla),
wherein R3 comprises a C1-C36 alkyl group; wherein R4 and R5 individually comprise a
C1-C36    alkyl group, wherein R4 and R5 can optionally together form a ring; and wherein
A is a linear or a branched divalent C2-C alkyl group;
d) at least one alkyldimethylamide;
e) at least one alkyl lactate;
f) ethyl levulinate;
g) at least one alkyoxyalcohol, ether alcohol, amine alcohol, amino alcohol or alcohol;
h) at least one glycerine or glycerine derivative;
 i) at least one alkylene carbonate;
j) dimethylsulfoxide; or
 k) any combination thereof.
 12.     A solid fertilizer composition comprising:
(a)      solid particles of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, and
(b)      an inhibitor composition comprising at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl
thiophosphoric triamide supported on at least a portion of the solid particles.
 13.     A method of making an aqueous end use fertilizer composition comprising
 incorporating:
(a)      one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds, and
                                             - 29 -

(b)     an inhibitor composition that comprises at least one of a dicyandiamide or an
        alkyl thiophosphoric triamide, the inhibitor composition dissolved in a liquid
        medium comprising an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents,
        amine solvents, heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof,
in an aqueous medium.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the organic solvent comprises:
(a) at least one dioxolane compound of formula (la):
               CH 2 ]- OH
           Ry
     6
                          (1a),
wherein R6 and R7 individually comprises a hydrogen, an alkyl group, an alkenyl group,
or a phenyl group, wherein n is an integer of from 1 to 10
b) at least one dibasic ester;
c) at least one compound of formula (Ila):
R3 0OC-A-CONR 4 R5
(Ila),
wherein R3 comprises a C1-C36 alkyl group; wherein R4 and R5 individually comprise a
C1-C36   alkyl group, wherein R4 and R5 can optionally together form a ring; and wherein
A is a linear or a branched divalent C2-C alkyl group;
                                            - 30 -

d) at least one alkyldimethylamide;
e) at least one alkyl lactate;
f) ethyl levulinate;
g) at least one alkyoxyalcohol, ether alcohol, amine alcohol, amino alcohol or alcohol;
h) at least one glycerine or glycerine derivative;
 i) at least one alkylene carbonate;
j) dimethylsulfoxide; or
 k) any combination thereof.
 15.     An aqueous end use fertilizer composition comprising, based on 100 parts by
weight of the composition:
(a)      up to about 99 parts by weight of one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds,
(b)      at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide,
(c)      an organic solvent selected from polar aprotic solvents, amine solvents,
         heterocyclic alcohol solvents, and mixtures thereof, and
(d)      water.
 16.     A method for fertilizing target plants, comprising applying an aqueous end use
fertilizer composition that comprises:
(a)      one or more nitrogenous fertilizer compounds
(b)      at least one of a dicyandiamide or an alkyl thiophosphoric triamide,
(c)      an organic solvent selected from dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, the
                                              - 31 -

                                               32
dimethyl ester of succinic acid, dimethyl ester of ethyl succinic acid, the dimethyl ester
of glutaric acid, the dimethyl ester of methyl glutaric acid, and the dimethyl ester of
adipic acid, diethylene triamine, or monoethanolamine, methyl-5-(dimethylamino)-2
methyl-oxopentanoate, dimethylaminoethanol, triethanol amine, a heterocyclic alcohol
according to structure (Ill):
                       CH2 -OH
          ox0
          F"
        H3C
                    0
                   CH3              (Ill),
and mixtures thereof, and
(d)     water,
to the target plants or to an environment for the target plants.
                                      Rhodia Operations
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

