  Abstract
  The invention relates to a device for promoting the release of an active compound,
  preferably a pesticide, from a substrate. The device comprises a mechanism for
5 promoting the release of the active compound, preferably a pesticide, that is powered
  by mechanical means and/or stored mechanical energy.

                                                -1
                          Device for promoting the release of a pesticide
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a device for promoting the release of an active
 5 compound, preferably a pesticide, from a substrate. Preferably the pesticide active is an
   insecticide to control insects, particularly mosquitoes. The device comprises a
   mechanism for promoting the release of the active compound, preferably a pesticide,
   that is powered by mechanical means and/or stored mechanical energy.
10 Background of the Invention
   Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
   general knowledge in the field.
15 The control of flying insects in an indoor or outdoor area has traditionally been achieved
   with the use of devices that dispense insecticide vapours into the atmosphere.
   Devices that vaporise the solid or liquid active ingredients into the atmosphere require a
   heat source. The heat source usually takes the form of combustion (or burning) or
20 electrical heating. Substrates such as coils impregnated with an active ingredient and
   citronella oil candles require burning to release the active while other devices such as
   liquid electrical emanating devices rely on electricity to provide the heat to the active so
   that it vaporises into the atmosphere.
25 The release rates of active insecticides from continuous action products such as
   mosquito coils, candles, liquid vaporisers and electrically heated mats are essentially
   independent of the surrounding environment as the driving force for discharge of the
   active is supplied from within the system.
30 The abovementioned articles and devices used to control pests/insects have significant
   disadvantages.     The combustion of mosquito coils requires a safe burning site and

                                                -2
   results in ash and smoke. The burning of a candle exposes a naked flame and therefore
   requires a safe burning site, while the use of electricity to heat an insecticidal device is
   costly in some developing countries and is not reliable or portable. Battery power solves
   the reliability and mobility aspects but is a very costly source of power for most
 5 consumers in developing countries.
   There also exist ambient temperature products that rely on passive evaporation of the
   insecticide from a substrate into the environment. These products, which have in the
   past been used to control moths, do not require an external source of energy, such as
10 combustion, heat or electricity to release the insecticide into the atmosphere. Instead,
   an insecticide that vaporises at ambient temperature is all that is required for these
   products.
   The concept of an ambient temperature active (moth ball repellent, for example) has
15 many benefits: they provide long lasting and continuous protection; they are efficient in
   that there is no need for a means of heating; they are portable and practical.
   However, the above ambient temperature products also have the disadvantage that
   they are usually only effective in very small, enclosed spaces.
20
   There are have been more recent passive insecticide products developed that have been
   designed to overcome some of the limitations above and are also designed to combat
   other insects such as mosquitoes also. These may comprise an insecticide absorbed onto
   a substrate. These recent products have been engineered to improve the emanation
25 rates on of these passive emanatory type devices. For example see W02008/012507 Al
   and W02006/134353 Al. These disclose woven and non-woven substrates impregnated
   with vapour actives that have an improved emanation profile.
   However, difficulties remain. These substrates still have a wide range of emanation rates
30 depending on ambient temperature and flow of air around them, thus consistent
   reliable performance is hard to achieve across a range of climate types.

                                               -3
   Therefore still exists a need for an improved controlled insect control article/device
   suitable for larger open spaces and/or rooms that does not require an external power
   source.
 5 It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
   Summary of invention
   According to the invention there is provided a device for promoting the release of at
10 least one active pesticide compound from a substrate; wherein the device comprises a
   mechanism for providing energy to promote the release of the at least one active
   pesticide from the at least one substrate; and wherein the mechanism is powered by
   mechanical means or stored mechanical energy; and further wherein the device does
   not use or contain a source of electrical power or energy.
15
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
   claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
20
   The device of the present invention provides the regular and even release of the active
   while not requiring electrical power. The device achieves this by a mechanism powered
   by mechanical means or more preferably stored mechanical energy.
25 The device of the present invention may operate in one of two basic ways. Firstly it may
   actively pass air over or through the fixed substrate or secondly, it may actively move
   the substrate through the air.
   In one embodiment of the invention the mechanism comprises a gearing and a fan to
30 pass air through or over the substrate.

                                               -4
   In an alternative embodiment of the invention the mechanism comprises gearing and an
   arm (connected to the substrate) to move the entire substrate through the air in a
   regular and controlled fashion. In further embodiments this motion may be through
   rotation of the arm or by a controlled swinging motion.
 5
   Preferably the stored mechanical energy is provided by a wind up mechanism such as a
   wound mechanical spring.
   The mechanism, by providing a controlled amount of energy, in terms of movement of
   air across the substrate provides a more consistent level of chemical active to be
10 released from the device. This steady release level allows the device to be a more
   effective and consistent insect repellent across a wider range of temperatures.
   Preferably the device comprises a frame. The frame may be any structure to readily
   enable the attachment of substrates to the device. The frame may, for instance
   comprise clips or a slot to receive the substrate. The invention is not limited to these
15 methods.
   Preferably the frame is designed to attach with the holder portion of the substrate, if
   that preferred feature is used. Alternatively the frame may be designed to attach
   directly with the substrate.
20
   Where the device has a movable or rotatable arm, preferably the frame is connected to
   the arm. Where the device has a fan, the frame is preferably located such that it is
   superimposed over the fan.
25 The device may have a single frame for receiving a substrate. In a further embodiment
   the device may have two or more frames attaching two or more substrates.
   The outer housing of the device may be any shape suitable to contain the mechanism for
   promoting the release of the active and associated parts for storing and releasing
30 mechanical energy.

                                                -5
   The substrate may be retained inside the internal housing of the device. In alternative
   embodiments the substrate may also be retained external to the internal housing of the
   device.
 5 The outer housing may be made of any material capable of supporting the internal
   workings of the device.
   Suitable materials include but are not limited to plastic, paper, cardboard, coated paper,
   coated cardboard, metal, wood, coated wood and combinations thereof.             It will be
10 appreciated that the coated paper, cardboard and wood include but are not limited to
   foil coated, plastic coated cardboard and resin coated paper, cardboard and wood. It
   will be appreciated that plastic coated includes laminated materials.
   Preferably, the outer housing is made of plastic.
15
   In a further embodiment of the device of the present invention the mechanism for
   promoting the release of the active comprises gearing and a movable arm to pass the
   substrate through the air.
20 In a further embodiment the substrate is fixed to the arm and the gearing mechanism
   converts the stored mechanical energy into movement of the arm.
   In a further embodiment the substrate is attached to the end of the arm of the device in
   a tensioned state. Preferably the substrate is attached to the arm via a frame.
25
   Preferably the substrate is maintained in a tensioned state by a holder. The holder may
   be reversibly attached to the substrate. Alternatively the holder may be continuous with
   the substrate and non removable.
30 Preferably the substrate and therefore the end of the arm is located externally to the
   main outer housing of the device.

                                                -6
   In one embodiment the movement effected by the arm is preferably simple harmonic
   motion. The arm and substrate moved through the air in regular cycle to promote the
   release of the active. This enables clear calculations to be made on the air flow/volume
   across and through the substrate.
 5
   In a further embodiment the gearing mechanism may include a pendulum to aid the
   smoothness of the motion or provide extra resistance to the motion. The pendulum
   may form a discrete feature in the gearing mechanism. Alternatively a pendulum may be
   incorporated into the arm.
10
   In a further embodiment the arm may also be connected to the device via a pivot point
   along its length and its movement may be centred around this point. Alternatively the
   arm may be fixed at one end and swing backwards and forwards.
15 The substrate may be connected to any part of the swinging arm. Preferably the
   substrate is connected to the end of the arm to provide maximum movement through
   the air for each cycle of the arm.
   In an alternative embodiment the arm may simply rotate. The substrate may be
20 attached to a frame on the side of the arm (in a flag/pole arrangement) and the rotation
   of the arm will pull the substrate through the air. Alternatively the substrate may
   positioned symmetrically about the arm.
   The substrate may also attach to the frame on the arm via a holder.
25 In another embodiment of the device the mechanism for promoting the release of the
   active is a fan.
   The fan may be completely contained inside the device. The outer housing may then
   contain an inlet and an outlet to allow a flow of air through the device.
30

                                               -7
   Alternatively the fan may be at least partially exposed to the room. The substrate may
   be located in close proximity. Preferably the substrate (and associated holder) will be
   held in a frame that is designed to be held near the fan on the device.
 5 In one further embodiment with an internal fan the inlet and outlet are the same, but in
   a preferred arrangement they are distinct features.
   Preferably the inlet and the outlet are disposed directly opposite each other on
   opposing sides of the outer housing. This arrangement provides a straight path through
10 the device for a flow of air.
   Preferably the device may have a closure mechanism. The closure mechanism may be
   able to close the inlet and outlets. This may be done to prevent the emanation of any
   active compound from the substrate when the device was not needed.
15
   Preferably the closure mechanism is adjustable. By adjustable it is meant that the inlets
   and outlets may be controllably opened and closed such that the operator or user of the
   device may determine what proportion they are opened and closed. The purpose of this
   may be to reduce or increase the flow of air through the device as needed to obtain
20 optimum performance.
   Preferably the fan would be placed between the inlet and the outlet of the device to
   generate maximum airflow. Preferably the fan would be placed directly in line with
   substrate.
25
   With internal fan embodiments, preferably the substrate and any associated holder
   would also be located within a frame inside the device. This arrangement enables the
   substrate to be kept away from accidental contact with the user or others and fixes the
   relationship of the substrate and fan for maximum efficiency.
30

                                                 -8
   The device is not powered by an electrical source, either by mains electricity or a
   battery. The device is also not powered by a heat source.             The mechanism, either
   providing motion or fan will be powered by mechanical means and preferably by stored
   mechanical energy. The mechanical energy may be supplied by the user of the device.
 5
   Preferably the mechanism would be powered by a wind up device. The wind up
   mechanism would be wound by the user of the device, prior to being used and this
   would slowly release the energy needed to power the mechanism for promoting the
   emanation of the active from the substrate.
10
   The wind up mechanism and storage may be closely analogous to that contained within
   a mechanical clock.
   The mechanical energy stored within the device may be capable of powering the
15 mechanism of any of the embodiments for at least two hours, preferably four hours and
   most preferably eight hours.
   The mechanical energy may be capable of powering the fan for more than ten hours,
   preferably more than twelve hours without needing to be replaced by the user of the
20 device.
   The use of mechanical energy enables the device to be operated in areas with no
   electricity source. This provides great flexibility and saves significant cost for the user.
25 In a further embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a substrate,
   comprising an active compound, suitable for use for use with any of the devices of the
   present invention
   The substrate may be formed from any fibrous material that can reversibly absorb or
30 adsorb an active material.

                                               -9
   Preferably the substrate is formed from cellulosic fibres or man-made fibres.
   Preferred man-made polymer fibres are polyester or polyamide fibres and more
   preferably polyethylene terephthalate fibres.
 5
   In a further embodiment the substrate may be a non-woven fabric.
   In a further embodiment the substrate comprises:
            1) a weight of between 5 and 200 grams per square metre (gsm), preferably 10
10             and 100 gsm and more preferably between 15 and 50 gsm; and
            2) a size of between 5 and 100 cm2 , preferably between 10 and 50 cm2 and
               more preferably between 20 and 30 cm2
   In a further embodiment the substrate is fixed to a holder to maintain the substrate in a
15 substantially tensioned state and allow easy handling of the substrate by the user
   without contamination of their hands by the active.
   In a further embodiment the substrate and holder are discrete and separable and
   preferably the discrete holder is formed from paper or card.
20
   In an alternative embodiment the holder and substrate are continuous and inseparable.
   In a further embodiment the holder is formed from the same material as the substrate.
   In a further embodiment the holder is ultrasonically welded to the substrate.
25 In an embodiment of the present invention the active compound is a pesticide and
   preferably wherein the pesticide is an insecticide. In a further embodiment the active
   compound is a pyrethroid, preferably metofluthrin.
   Preferably the substrates of suitable for use with the devices of the present invention
30 comprise between 0.1mg and 20mgs of active compound.

                                                 - 10
   In a further embodiment of the present invention the substrate comprises two or more
   active compounds.
   A particularly preferred substrate for use with the devices of the present invention
 5 comprises;
   a non-woven polyester material with a basis weight of between 15 and 25 grams per
   square metre (gsm), with a single side surface area of between 15cm 2 and 40cm 2;
   a holder formed from struts of an amorphous polyester film ultrasonically sealed to the
   non-woven substrate to keep the substrate in a substantially tensioned state; and
10 a pyrethroid, between 0.1 mg and 5 mg, preferably between 0.5 mg and 2.5 mg and
   most preferably between 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg.
   A further preferred substrate comprises non-woven polyethylene terephthalate (PET)
   with a basis weight of between 18 and 22 gsm and single side surface area of between
15 25cm 2 to 36 cm2 . A holder formed from struts of an amorphous PET film between 150
   and 250 gsm ultrasonically sealed to the substrate, preferably the outside edges and two
   cross spars spanning the substrate, and the pyrethroid is metofluthrin which is present
   between 0.75 and 1.5mg.
20 In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a kit comprising a device the
   invention and at least one substrate with or without holder. In preferred embodiments
   of the kit there may be 10 or more substrates, preferably 20 or more substrates and
   most preferably 30 or more substrates.
25 In a last embodiment there is provided a method of controlling insects preferably flying
   insects, for at least 8 hours, comprising the steps of:
            1) Attaching a substrate according to any of claims 10 to 25, comprising an
                insecticide as the active, to a device of claims 1 to 9;
           2) Providing mechanical energy to the device; and
30         3) Activating the device

                                              - 11
   Brief description of the Figures
   Figure 1 shows a exploded view of a motion embodiment of a device according to the
   invention
   Figures 2 A and B show an alternative motion embodiment of a motion device.
 5 Figures 3 A to D show a further alternative motion embodiment of the invention
   Figures 4 A to C show an embodiment of the device comprising a fan.
   Figures 5 A to C show an embodiment of the device utilising a fully rotating arm.
   Detailed description of the invention
10 The devices of the present invention are designed to be simple, cost effective
   standalone insecticidal devices that provide many hours of unaided insecticide
   performance, regardless of ambient conditions, without needing an external electrical
   power source to operate or a heat source.
15 Free of the requirement for electrical power, the scope for the use (in even very remote
   parts of the world) of the claimed devices is much broader than the devices of the art
   and the environmental and economic cost of their use is minimised.
   The device is also an extremely safe method for insect control when compared with
20 other methods that do not require electrical power such as coils or candles. The devices
   of the invention will only release the pesticidal active (or actives) and the active alone.
   Coils in particular release smoke and other acrid chemicals as well as the insecticides
   into the air.
25 Both coils and candles are also effectively an open flame with the normal hazards
   associated with fire in the home.
   The device achieves greater, more consistent performance with the substrate than the
   use of bare substrates alone (due to the controlled an constant movement of air relative
30 to the substrate compared with a purely passive design, see W02008/012507 Al and
   W02006/134353 Al.

                                               - 12
   At its most basic, the invention comprises two parts. The first is a mechanical device, the
   second is a substrate comprising an active. It is preferred that the mechanical device be
   reusable countless times. The substrates may be usable. However it is preferred that the
   substrates are disposable. They will have an active life, be consumed and discarded and
 5 a fresh substrate applied to the device for further operation.
   Substrates, such as those described in W02008/012507 Al and W02006/134353 Al can
   be effective for use in the device of the present invention and the contents of these
   patent applications are incorporated by reference.
10 It is preferred that non-woven materials are used as substrates. Non-wovens are well
   known and used in many industries. It is preferred that non-wovens of man-made fibres
   are used. Particularly preferred are polyester and polyamides.
   For the purposes of the present invention an active compound is preferably a pesticide
15 active compound. However, the active compound could also be a non-pesticide. The
   device of the present invention could equally promote the release of any volatile active
   compound. A non-limiting example of other actives that may be used are perfumes and
   scents.
20 The at least one pesticide active may be any suitable active known in the art. The
   pesticide active may be a mixture or two or more discrete actives used in combination.
   For the purposes of the present invention "pesticide active" means any active with a
   physical effect on a pest. This includes actives with lethal effects on the pest species and
25 non-lethal effects, such as repellency. These may be combined with other actives such
   as scents and dyes as required.
   Preferably the pesticide active will be an insecticide active.
30 Particularly preferred actives are those described in U.S. patent 6,582,714 or other
   synthetic pyrethroids.

                                                  -13
   Most preferably the insecticide active will be a pyrethoid, preferably a vapour active
   pyrethroid. A vapour active pyrethroid is one that will vaporise at ambient temperature.
   The one or more vapour active pyrethroids are preferably selected from the group
 5 consisting of metofluthrin (1.9 mPa/ 25*C), transfluthrin (0.40 mPa/20*C), empenthrin
   (14 mPa/23.6 C), methothrin, tefluthrin (8.4 mPa/20"C,), and fenfluthrin (1.0 mPa/20*C),
   or combinations thereof.        The vapour pressures of these compounds are given in
   parentheses. It will be appreciated that one or more vapour active pyrethroids may be
   employed in the present invention.
10
   Preferably, the vapour active pyrethroid is metofluthrin. Metofluthrin has high potency
   against mosquitoes, flies, and moths.
   The chemical name of metofluthrin is 2,3,5,6-tetrafluro-4-(methoxymethyl)benzyl-(EZ)
15 (1RS,3RS;1RS,3SR)-2,2-dimethyl-3-(prop-1-enyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate.        Metofluthrin
   is available from the Sumitomo Chemical Company.
   The one or more substrates have the ability to hold an insecticidally effective amount of
   the one or more vapour active pyrethroids and then emanate that specific amount to
20 near completion at an insecticidally effective amount when the substrate is exposed to
   air and the fan is on. An insecticidally effective amount may be understood to mean the
   amount of vapour active pyrethroid required to be impregnated into the substrate to
   result in emanation of the vapour active pyrethroid from the substrate in an amount
   that is insecticidally effective for a specified period of time.
25
   Preferably, the substrate is impregnated with one or more vapour active pyrethroids in
   an amount of approximately 10 - 20,000 mg/m 2, more preferably 100 - 10,000 mg/m 2,
   even more preferably 500 - 5,000 mg/m 2.
                                                                                     2
30 In one preferred embodiment the substrate is impregnated with 100-200mg/m           of the
   active compounds.

                                                - 14
   Preferred substrate sizes are between 20 and 80 cm2 per use. This combination of active
   density and size of substrate may be suitable to make substrates that will be effective in
   the device at least for 8 hours, preferably at least for ten hours or most preferably at
   least 12 hours.
 5
   To increase the duration of use, larger sizes of substrates may be used with the same
   loading level of pesticide active. Alternatively the same substrate sizes may be used with
   higher loadings of the pesticide actives for longer lasting effects.
10 The emanation or release of the actives (preferably vapour active pyrethroids) from the
   one or more substrates into the surrounding environment may be referred to as the
   emanation rate or release rate and will be understood to mean the depletion of an
   amount of actives (preferably vapour active pyrethroids) from the fibres of the one or
   more substrates over a certain period of time and has a unit of measurement of mg/h
15 (milligrams per hour). The emanation rate is a measure of efficacy in controlling flying
   insects.
   The inventors have found that the factors that control the emanation rate are primarily
   ambient temperature, airflow provided by the fan or motion of the substrate through
20 the air, air permeability and porosity of the fibres of the material making up the
   substrate for any given surface area and the amount of active present on the substrate.
   The amount of the active (preferably vapour active pyrethroid) coated and/or dosed
   onto the substrate will also clearly be a factor in determining the duration of effective
25 emanation of the pyrethroid.
   The present inventors have found that emanation of a vapour active pyrethroid,
   preferably metofluthrin, from the one or more substrates into the atmosphere at a rate
   of at least about 0.040 mg/h, more preferably at least about 0.075 mg/h, is required to
30 effectively control flying insects, particularly mosquitoes and moths at a temperature in
   the range of about 15-40*C, more preferably, 21-35'C.

                                               - 15
   For the purposes of the present invention therefore the emanation rate of about 0.040
   mg/h may be referred to as the "minimum effective emanation rate" (MEER). It will be
   understood that reference to the phrase "effective emanation rate" throughout the
   specification will mean an emanation rate of 0.040 mg/h or more.
 5
   This MEER may be achieved by controlling a variety of parameters including but not
   limited to the material of the substrate; the available emanation surface area, ambient
   temperature, and air flow provided by the fan or movement of the substrate through
   the air.
10
   Some air movement is required in order for the pyrethroid to emanate from the one or
   more of the simple substrates alone into the atmosphere.            The rate of emanation
   increases with increased air flow. A minimal air flow, such as the movement of people
   or open windows and/or doors, may allow a simple passive substrate to provide
15 minimum emanation rate of about 0.040 mg/h, given suitable temperature. But this
   cannot be relied upon consistent and this is why the devices of the present invention
   offer superior performance.
   The possibility of achieving reliable and predictable emanation of the active (preferably
20 vapour active pyrethroid) from the substrate according to the present invention at low
   temperatures in the range of about 15-21'C contributes to the commercial viability of
   the various aspects of the invention. It is particularly at these lower temperatures when
   the passive substrates described in W02008/012507 Al and W02006134353 Al struggle
   to maintain MEER.
25
   By placing the substrates in the device of the present invention the correct level of air
   flow over/through the substrate can been maintained consistently for many hours
   regardless of ambient temperature.
30 According to an embodiment of the invention, when the one or more substrates is
   exposed to the air and the mechanism for providing energy to promote the release of

                                                -16
   the active is switched one at least one vapour active pyrethroid at an insecticidally
   effective rate will be emanated from the device.
   It will be understood that an insecticidally effective rate is the emanation rate required
 5 to control the insects in the atmosphere when the insect control article is in use.
   Accordingly, it will be understood that the insecticidally effective rate will at least be
   equal to the MEER.
   In one embodiment of a fan containing device, the device will have a closure mechanism
10 to close the inlet and outlet to prevent (or decrease) the flow of air through the device.
   This will prevent the loss of the active to the environment when the device is not
   needed.
   When the closure mechanism is in an open position, air flow, aided by the fan, passes
15 through the one or more substrates to emanate the one or more vapour active
   pyrethroids at an insecticidally effective rate.
   As noted above, the emanation rate of the vapour active pyrethroid from the one or
   more substrates is affected by a number of parameters, apart from environmental
20 factors such as temperature and airflow, including, air permeability and porosity.
   The vapour active pyrethroid may be applied to the one or more substrates by any
   method known to persons skilled in the art, for example, a solution of the pyrethroid
   could be applied by droplets, spraying or dipping.
25
   For the devices of the present invention, the size of substrates used will depend on
   effective pesticide active loading and the duration required for emanation.
   The area of substrate preferably used in the device may be between 0.0005m 2 and 1m2,
30 more preferably 0.001m 2 and 0.25m 2 , more preferably 0.002m 2 and 0.1m 2 and
   0.0025m 2 and 0.05m 2.

                                               - 17
   The substrate may be used in any shape, the simplest shape being square sections of
   substrate. For the purposes of aesthetics, any shape maybe used for the substrates as
   long as the surface area and active loading levels are maintained.
 5 According to one aspect of the invention, the one or more substrates are impregnated
   with the one or more active pesticide compounds. Preferably the pesticide actives are
   insecticides and more preferably they are vapour active pyrethroids.
   The preferred vapour active pyrethroid is metofluthrin.      Preferably, the vapour active
10 pyrethroid is dissolved in a carrier solvent. The carrier solvent may be any solvent or
   combination of solvents in which the vapour active pyrethroid is soluble.
   The inventors have identified two important physical properties of solvents that may be
   used to characterise and classify preferred carrier solvents. The first is the boiling point
15 and the second is the evaporation rate according to the ASTM (American Society for
   Testing and Materials) D3539-87 (Standard Test Methods for Evaporation Rates of
   Volatile Liquids by Shell Thin-Film Evaporometer).
   Preferably, the carrier solvent has a boiling point in the range between about 33-285*C,
   more preferably, about 50-265*C.
20
   The carrier solvent may be selected from, but not limited to, chlorinated hydrocarbons
   (e.g. 1,1,1-trichloroethane, dichloromethane, chloroform); alcohols (e.g. methanol,
   ethanol, n-propanol);     ketones (e.g. acetone); alcohol and ketone mixtures (e.g.
   acetone/ethanol (1:1 by volume)); normal paraffins with a boiling point range of about
25 155-2760 C (e.g. Norpar 12); dearomatised aliphatic hydrocarbons and their blends in the
   boiling point range of about 33-265"C (e.g. pentane, heptane, hexane, Exxsol D40, Exxsol
   D80 and Exxsol D100); isoparaffins in the boiling point range of about 150-285*C (e.g.
   Isopar G, and Isopar M); glycol ethers in the boiling point range of about 120-243*C;
   natural or synthetically derived aroma chemicals as discussed above. The Norpar, Exxsol
30 and Isopar solvents are all available from Mobil Exxon.

                                               -18
   The inventors have found that the use of low boiling point solvents with high
   evaporation rates will be effective as carrier solvents. The inventors have also found
   that the use of higher boiling point solvents with lower evaporation rates leads to a
   preferred embodiment of the invention.
 5
   In a preferred embodiment, the one or more substrates are impregnated with the
   vapour active pyrethroid, preferably metofluthrin in a carrier solvent.
   In this embodiment, the vapour active pyrethroid, preferably metofluthrin, is dissolved
10 in the carrier solvent and the resulting solution is applied to the one or more substrates
   such that the vapour active pyrethroid is distributed, preferably evenly, throughout the
   substrate.   The carrier solvent used is preferably a solvent that does not evaporate
   within about 10 minutes after application onto the substrate and more preferably is
   characterised by having a high boiling point and a low evaporation rate. However, the
15 evaporation rate of the carrier solvent is required to be faster than that of the vapour
   active pyrethroid.
   Preferably, the carrier solvent has a boiling point in the range of about 120-285'C, more
   preferably about 150-265"C, and may be selected from known solvents including but not
20 limited to normal paraffins with a boiling point range of about 155-2760 C, such as
   Norpar 12; dearomatised aliphatic hydrocarbons and their blends in the boiling point
   range of about 150 -265*C such as Exxsol D40, Exxsol D80 and Exxsol D100; isoparaffins
   in the boiling point range of about 150-2850 C such as Isopar G and Isopar M and glycol
   ethers in the boiling point range of about 120-243*C.
25
   In a preferred embodiment, the carrier solvent used has an evaporation rate according
   to ASTM D3539-87 of less than about 1.0, a boiling point in the range of about 120
   285*C, preferably about 150-265"C.

                                               - 19
   It will be understood that solvents used for applying a vapour active pyrethroid to the
   substrate may be employed as carrier solvents in all aspects of the present invention
   that require a carrier solvent.
 5 While the use of carrier solvents is discussed with particular reference to vapour active
   pyrethroids, it will be understood that the use of carrier solvents as described above is
   contemplated in connection with the application of any vapour active substance to the
   multifilament polyester or polyamide fibre substrate requiring the presence of a carrier
   solvent.
10
   Throughout the specification the term "substrate" will be understood to mean a
   foraminous material. By foraminous material it will be understood that the material has
   foramina, is full of holes and/or is porous. The term "holes" will be understood to mean
   openings of any shape in or through the material.           It will be appreciated that the
15 foraminous material may result from holes being made in the material or by virtue of
   the way the material is manufactured.
   The foraminous material includes but is not limited to any material formed by weaving,
   interweaving, interlacing, knitting or closely linking fibres e.g. lace or crochet; a mesh of
20 fibres to form a mesh material, e.g. by knotting the intersections of the fibres to form
   meshes; a loosely-coherent sheet of fibres. Suitable substrates for use in the present
   invention are also disclosed in W02008/012507 Al and W02006/0134353 Al which are
   hereby incorporated by reference.
25 Most preferably the foraminous material is a non-woven material of low weight basis
   weight. Most preferably the substrates of the present invention are made from man
   made fibres such as polyesters and polyamides. A particularly preferred polyester is PET.
   Preferably, the holes in the substrate have a hole size greater than about 0.01 mm 2,
30 more preferably greater than about 0.05 mm 2 .

                                               - 20
   The foraminous material of the substrate may be made of natural or synthetic fibres.
   Natural fibres include but are not limited to cellulosic material, cotton, silk and wool.
   Synthetic fibres include but are not limited to polyester or polyamide fibres. Preferably,
   the substrate is formed from synthetic fibre.        In one preferred embodiment, the
 5 substrate is formed from polyester or polyamide fibre.       Preferably, the polyamide is
   nylon.
   A particularly preferred polyester is polyethylene terephthalate (PET).
10 It will be appreciated that the fibres that make up the foraminous material may be
   composed of a number of filaments and hence be termed "multifilament" or composed
   of a single filament and hence be termed "monofilament". In a preferred embodiment,
   the substrate is made of multifilament fibres, more preferably multifilament polyester or
   polyamide fibres.
15
   In a preferred embodiment, the multifilament fibre has a filament count per thread
   greater than one, however counts of about 10-40 are preferred.
   Preferably, the filaments that make up the fibre have a diameter of about 10-30 im.
20 The filaments may be circular, trilobal, hollow or any other suitable cross-sectional
   shape which, when bundled together, form fibres suitable for knitting, weaving,
   interlacing, linking etc. In a preferred embodiment, polyester or polyamide filaments
   having a diameter of about 10-30 ptm are used to form the foraminous material of the
   substrate.
25
   The present inventors have found that multifilament fibres provide for an increase in
   surface area from which the one or more vapour active pyrethroids can emanate
   compared to material made of monofilament fibres, due to the increased number of
   filaments used to construct the fibres.       More specifically, according to a preferred
30 embodiment, the present inventors have found that it is the multifilament character of
   the multifilament polyester or polyamide fibre that enhances the wetting properties of

                                               - 21
   the fibre and the ability of the fibre to retain or hold the one or more vapour active
   pyrethroids.
   Ease of wetting is an important aspect as it allows for the rapid distribution of the one or
 5 more vapour active pyrethroids throughout the substrate. This is achieved by applying
   droplets of a solution containing the vapour active pyrethroid to the substrate and
   allowing it to spread by capillary action. As noted above, the multifilament polyesters or
   polyamides generally wet more easily than monofilament polyesters or polyamides and
   are therefore preferable in distributing a solution containing a vapour active pyrethroid
10 throughout the substrate by capillary action.
   An associated advantage with the substrate being made of multifilament fibres,
   particularly multifilament polyester or polyamide fibres, is that the one or more vapour
   active pyrethroids will vapourise to a point where there is minimal residual substance
15 remaining on the substrate. The present inventors have found that when a substrate
   made of multifilament polyester or polyamide fibres is dosed with, for example, one or
   more vapour active pyrethroids in a carrier solvent, they evaporate to near completion.
   From the above, it can be seen that the present inventors have recognised the
20 importance of the ability of the substrate to hold an insecticidally effective amount of
   the one or more vapour active pyrethroids and then emanate that amount of one or
   more vapour active pyrethroids to near completion when the insect control article is in
   the open position and the substrate is exposed to air. This characteristic has been
   recognised as a preferred feature in providing an insect control article that is effective
25 and economical to use and manufacture.
   In accordance with the invention, the multifilament polyester or polyamide substrate
   may be a woven or knitted fabric. In the case of a woven multifilament substrate, any
   type of weave is suitable and may include plain, twill or satin weaves for example which
30 have their usual meanings in the art. Alternatively, knitted fabrics may include both
   warp and weft knitting for example which have their usual meanings in the art. The

                                               - 22
   multifilament polyester or polyamide (also referred to as a "polyester or polyamide
   thread" or "polyester or polyamide yarn") may be zero-twist, twisted or plaited or any
   other form suitable for weaving or knitting and may be manufactured from a continuous
   filament or from staple fibres.
 5
   The substrate may be a multifilament knitted or woven substrate and the multifilament
   substrate may be in the form of a net or mesh.
   In a preferred embodiment, the substrate is a non-woven mesh of multifilament fibres.
10 Preferably the fibres are polyester fibres and most preferably PET fibres.
   According to § 303.7 Generic names and definitions for manufactured fibers from the
   Rules and Regulations under the United States Textile Fiber Products Identification Act
   16 CFR Part 303, a "polyester" is defined as a manufactured fibre in which the fibre
15 forming substance is any long chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 85% by
   weight of an ester of a substituted aromatic carboxylic acid, including but not restricted
   to substituted terephthalate units and para substituted hydroxy-benzoate units.
   Persons skilled in the art, however, will appreciate that this is only one definition of the
   term "polyester" and other definitions are also encompassed by the invention.
20
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the polyamide fibre is nylon. According to
   the Federal Trade Commission of the United States, "nylon"                is defined as a
   manufactured fibre in which the fibre-forming substance is a long-chain synthetic
   polyamide having recurring amide groups as an integral part of the polymer chain.
25 Persons skilled in the art, however, will appreciate that this is only one definition of the
   term "nylon" and other definitions are also encompassed by the invention.
   As used herein, the term "net" encompasses any open fibre material made of knotting
   the intersections of the fibres to form meshes. Nets can be made in a variety of mesh
30 sizes and weights matched to varying end uses.

                                               - 23
   As used herein, the term "knitted" material encompasses a method of constructing
   material by an interlocking series of loops of one or more fibres. The two major classes
   of knitting are warp knitting and weft knitting. In addition, as used herein, the term
   "knitted" material also encompasses any material in which the one or more filaments of
 5 a fibre pass through one another as they cross each other. This is opposed to a "woven"
   substrate wherein the one or more filaments of a fibre pass above and below one
   another as they cross each other.
   The most preferred substrates are "non-wovens". Nonwoven fabrics are broadly defined
10 as sheet or web structures bonded together by entangling fibre or filaments (and by
   perforating films) mechanically, thermally or chemically. They are flat or tufted porous
   sheets that are made directly from separate fibres.
   The present      inventors have recognised that air permeability is an          important
15 characteristic in providing an insect control article that is effective and economical to
   use and manufacture.
   The device of the present invention comprises one or more substrates that may be
   tensioned. It may further comprise one or more untensioned substrates. By tensioned,
20 it is meant the substrate is held within a holder in a taut configuration.
   The holder may formed from any material. The holder may connect to the substrate on
   multiple sides. The holder may also cross the surface of the substrate.
25 Preferably, the one or more substrates each have a width and a length. The one or more
   substrates may take any shape desired. The substrate is preferably rectangular or square
   in shape. In the case that the substrate is rectangular, the holder may attach to the
   substrate along one or more of its edges and may attach one or more times across its
   centre. In one non-limiting example arrangement the holder will comprise bars along all
30 four sides of the substrate and may further comprise one or two more bars that span
   across the substrate.

                                               - 24
   It will be appreciated that when the one or more substrates are in an extended or
   tensioned form, there is a greater surface area of the one or more substrates available
   for emanation of the vapour active pyrethroid in comparison to when the one or more
   substrates are in an un-extended or un-tensioned form.
 5
   Preferably, the combined surface area of the one or more substrates is in the range of
   about 10 - 10,000 cm2 . The preferred surface area for indoor use of the insect control
   article of the invention is about 10- 400 cm2 , more preferably the surface area is about
   15-150 cm2.
10
   Preferably the one or more substrates will have a total surface area of at least 20cm 2 ,
   preferably at least 30 cm2, more preferably at least 35 cm2 and most preferably at least
   40cm 2 .
15 For the purposes of the present invention, the total surface area measurement values
   are of single sides of substrates only. Thus a 6cm x 6cm substrate will be considered to
   have a total surface area of 36cm 2 . The opposite side is not counted.
   Preferably, the one or more substrates each has a mass (basis weight) in the range of
   about 10 - 100 grams per square meter (gsm), more preferably in the range of about 15
20 - 80 gsm and most preferably in the range of about 20-60 gsm.
   By "tensioned" it will be understood that the substrate is held taut, stretched out or
   extended in length. It will be appreciated that when the substrate is tensioned, it will be
   extended in length to its maximum length so that a maximum surface area of the
25 substrate is available for emanation.
   Generally the substrate will be held in a tensioned state by a holder. The holder may be
   seperable from the substrate or inseperable.
30 The degree of tension may vary due to a number of factors including but not limited to:
   properties of the material of the substrate such as elongation characteristics (e.g.

                                               - 25
   elasticity); the weight of the material of the substrate and the method of attachment of
   the substrate to the holder. It will be understood that the at least one tensioned
   substrate is not tensioned until breaking point.
 5 The substrate will be considered to be "un-tensioned" when the substrate is not taut,
   stretched out or extended to its maximum length but instead buckles, kinks, distorts,
   hangs loose or relaxes.
   The device may comprise more than one tensioned substrate.              In one preferred
10 embodiment more than one tensioned substrate is present and the substrates are
   spaced alongside one another so as to achieve the desired emanation of the one or
   more pyrethroids.
   In a further preferred embodiment the substrate may be impregnated with a further
15 active or air treatment chemical. In this embodiment air entering the device will pick up
   some of the volatile chemical, and dispense it out of the device. This further treatment
   chemical may be a fragrance for example. This example may be utilised by the user as a
   convenient end of life indicator.
20 For mosquito control it is preferred to use an airflow rate through the device at about 4
   to 6 cubic feet per minute (0.113 to 0.170 cubic meters per minute). It is also preferred
   to have the fabric configured so that the pressure drop across the substrate is no more
   than 40 Pa.
25 Suitable substrates can be made of woven or non- woven materials providing only
   minimal resistance to the airflow.
   The substrate should also be capable of holding active ingredient dosed onto the
   material and also allow ready migration of the active to the surface of the substrate so
30 as to allow its evaporation in response to the airflow. For an active ingredient that is
   hydrophobic and migratable at common environmental temperatures between about

                                               - 26
   100 C and 40 0 C (e.g. metofluthrin), suitable materials include, only by way of example,
   polyester, polypropylene, cotton, cellulose, poly-rayon, and other similar fabrics. These
   may be non-wovens with basis weights ranging from 10 gsm to 40 gsm, fabricated from
   synthetic, natural, or combined synthetic and natural polymeric materials.
 5
   The ideal substrate should also allow for wicking of the active ingredient following
   dosing so as to ensure efficient distribution throughout the substrate, and thereafter
   allow migration of active ingredient to the substrate's surface to replenish the active
   ingredient that is being evaporated by the passing airflow. Dosing may be by dropping,
10 spraying, printing, or other conventional delivery of a liquid active ingredient to the
   substrate. A particularly desirable fabric is a non-woven felted material with a basis
   weight of 20-30 gsm fabricated from polyethylene terephthalate.
   The substrates may be impregnated to differing levels of active depending on their
15 intended use length. The substrates may be intended to last 8 hours, or 12 hours or 24
   hours etc.
   In a preferred embodiment the substrates are to be disposable and discarded once used.
   The substrates may be recycled.
20
   In a further preferred embodiment the disposable substrates will be pre-supplied in
   holders which are also disposable.
   Preferably the substrates will be designed to last for the similar length of time as the
25 device remains powered. Thus the motion of the device will act as its very own life
   indicator. Once the motion ceases, the user will know that they need to replace the
   substrate with a new fully loaded substrate before utilising the device again.
   Holder
30 In a preferred aspect of the present invention the substrates used are retained on
   holders. This is because the preferred substrates are sheets of low weight materials,

                                               - 27
   either woven or non-wovens with little inherent structural stability. They may easily fold
   or bunch. This will limit the surface area available to the environment. Thus for
   maximum efficacy in use and ease of use reasons it is desirable to use a holders as they
   may be used to hold the substrates in a fully extended or tensioned state.
 5
   The holder can also provide ergonomic benefits making it much easier to handle the
   substrates, ease of adding them to and removing them from the device and limiting
   contact the skin of the user of the device and the surface of the substrates.
10 For the purpose of connecting the holder to the device the holder may comprise
   attachment means. Preferably the holder is designed to interact readily with the frame
   of the device.
   At its simplest a holder may be a simple external frame to which a section of substrate
15 can be attached. Preferably the holder provides the most support possible while
   covering the smallest amount of the surface of the substrate as possible. The holder may
   be stylised for aesthetic reasons and remain technically effective.
   In another embodiment the holder and frame of the arm of the device may be one and
20 the same. The bare substrates would be attached each time. This single holder/frame
   arrangement may be detachable from the arm for easier application of a new substrate.
   The holder may be constructed from any material. In one embodiment the holder may
   be reusable and each new substrate may be attached to the holder prior to use.
25 Examples of materials for reusable holders may be metal, or plastic.
   In another embodiment the holders may be disposable and in addition may be provided
   with each substrate ready for use. This is preferred as it limits the potential contact of
   the users skin to the substrate. In these embodiments the holders may be made of card.
30

                                                - 28
   In another preferred embodiment, the holder is completely integral to the substrate and
   is formed from the same or similar materials. The holder may be formed from struts of
   solid films of the fibres used to form the substrate (or similar material) and glued or
   ultrasonically bonded or welded to the surface of substrate. This arrangement is also
 5 highly effective for a disposable substrate.
   In a non-limiting example of an integral holder/substrate, the substrate would be
   formed of a non-woven polyester of between 15 and 30 grams per square meter. The
   holder would be formed from struts of polyester film of between 150 and 250 grams per
10 square meter. The struts would be connected to the substrate by adhesive or by
   ultrasonic welding.
   The struts may be along each edge of the substrate and one or more cross struts. The
   required tension may be less than that however. Fewer struts may be used if stronger
15 struts are used.
   The struts may be applied to one face only of the substrate. Alternatively they may be
   provided to both faces of the substrate.
20 Mechanism
   The purpose of the mechanism and gearing is to transfer the stored energy in the
   mechanical system into energy to promote the release of the active substance from the
   substrate.
25 The main aspect of the gearing is to provide the correct amount of resistance to the
   stored energy to allow a steady and controlled release over time. The gearing may be
   similar to that found on a large clock or similar mechanically powered device.
   The mechanism may be used to turn a fan to propel air, or the mechanism may be used
   to move a mechanical arm. The motion of the arm then propels the substrate through
30 the air to promote the release of the active. The concept of the gearing remains the

                                              - 29
   same. The skilled person will have no problem in adjusting this to fit this to the intended
   duration and energy stored.
   Fan
 5 The skilled person will be able to determine the required RPM rate of the fan blade to
   provide the desired air flow to achieve the MEER. The RPM rate to increase or reduce
   emanation rate may be controlled by adjusting the fan speed.
   Typical speeds required to achieve the MEER for a fan bases embodiment may be
10 between 60 and 240 RPM, preferably 80 and 200 RPM, more preferably between 100
   and 180 RPM and most preferably between 120 and 160 RPM.
   The devices of the present invention may have a control to adjust the fan speed. These
   may include two or three or more speed settings. Thus given a higher ambient
15 temperature the user of the device may opt to lower the fan speed.
   Arm
   The arm embodiments or the invention allow for other adjustments to increase or
   decrease the rate of emanation of the active to achieve the MEER other than just rate of
20 arm motion.
   The arm may be lengthened or shortened such that the substrate experiences greater or
   less air travel per movement cycle. In a further embodiment the arm may be provided in
   an adjustable form so that the user may extend or shorten the arm as required.
25
   The arm may extend significantly outside the exterior walls of the device or the arm may
   be almost continuous with the outer walls of the device. The embodiment in Figure 5
   shows an arm arrangement wherein the arm portion rotates fully virtually flush to the
   surface of the device. Aframe portion extends outwards to receive the substrate/holder.
30

                                               - 30
   The angle of motion may be any required. The arm may rotate continuously the full 360
   degrees if desired. Preferably the arm may move up to 120 degrees backwards and
   forwards, preferably up to 100 degrees, more preferably up to 90 degrees in simple
   harmonic motion.
 5
   However typical cycle speeds for the arm based embodiments to achieve the MEER level
   may be between 20 and 300 RPM, preferably 60 and 250 RPM, more preferably
   between 120 and 200 RPM and most preferably between 140 and 160 RPM.
10 Mechanical energy source
   The simplest execution of is the use of a wound coiled spring, but the invention is not
   limited to this method however.
   To provide the energy required for the present invention, the metal spring length should
15 be at least two metres long, preferably at least 2.5 metres long and most preferably 3.0
   metres long.
   The thickness of the spring should be at least 0.1 cm in diameter, preferably at least 0.2
   cm in diameter, more preferably at least 0.3 cm in diameter.
20
   The spring should be capable of being readily wound by hand.
   Detailed description of the figures
   The figures show non-limiting embodiments of the device of present invention. The
25 features shown in each embodiment are not limited to that particular execution and
   may be combined with others shown in other embodiments. The skilled person will be
   aware how the different features may be combined.
   Figure 1 shows an exploded view of a device according to the present invention. The
30 device is substantially circular and has a front housing 1 and a rear housing 2. The front
   housing has feet 12 attached to allow the device to stand upright on its circumference.

                                              - 31
   The front housing has a gap 3 in its edge to allow arm 4 to extend out of the device. The
   arm of this example has an internal end and an external end. At the external end of arm
   4 is a frame 5. The frame 5 is designed to allow the ready attachment of a holder 6.
   Holder 6 may slide into frame 5. Alternatively holder 6 may clip or otherwise easily and
 5 removably attach to frame 5.
   Holder 6 will support the impregnated substrate (not shown) in a substantially tensioned
   state.
10 At the internal end of arm 4 there is a counterweight or pendulum 7. The arm 4 is
   connected to gear module 8. This contains the gearing required to provide the correct
   amount of resistance to the source of stored mechanical energy, in this case spring 11.
   This allows for the steady release of the energy over the desired period of intended
   operation.
15
   The arm moves about the pivot point in response to the energy provided. The angle the
   arm moves through the air can be calculated per cycle. To increase the air movement
   the rate of movement may be increased or the arm length may be increased, such that
   the substrate held at the end travels further through the air per cycle of movement.
20
   The gear module is connected to the spring by connecter portion 9. The arm and gear
   module sit on chassis portion 10 which sits over the coiled spring 11. Spring connecter 9
   passes through the chassis 10 to connect to the spring 11. Handle 13 is connected to the
   spring through rear housing 2 to allow the spring to be wound.
25
   Figures 2A and 2C show an alternative embodiment of the invention. The device is hemi
   ellipsoid with front 1 and rear 2 housing panels. Rotatable handle 13 is located on the
   front housing panel 1. The arm 4 of this embodiment is entirely external to the device
   housing. Frame 5 is located at the end of the arm. A holder comprising the substrate
30 (not shown) will be able to slide into frame 5. The arm is moved via connection to
   movement assembly mechanism 14. The turning of movement assembly 14 will propel

                                              - 32
   arm 4 back and forth. The movement assembly 14 is connected to the internal gearing
   and spring, not shown.
   Again the arm length and gearing can be adjusted to get the desired amount of
 5 substrate movement through the air.
   Figures 3 A to D show a close alternative to the embodiment of Figure 2. In this device
   the arm is orientated downwards and the device is designed to sit on a table, shelf or
   mantelpiece. In all other regards the device is identical.
10
   Figures 3 C and D showed the internal layout of the embodiments of both Figure 2 and
   3. (The arm configuration of Figure 3 is shown but the internal workings apply to both.)
   The spring 9 is mounted on one side of an internal mounting. The gearing module 8 is
15 situated on the other. Handle 13 is connected through the front panel 1 to the spring 9.
   The Spring 9 in turn is connected through an internal mounting to the gearing unit 8. The
   gearing unit 8 is in turn connected through the rear panel to external movement
   assembly mechanism 14 which rocks the arm 4 back and forth.
20 Figures 4 A to C show an alternative embodiment of the present invention wherein the
   mechanism for promoting the release of the active is a fan.
   Figures 4A and 4B show a cutaway of the embodiment of the device. Spring 9 is located
   on the inside of rear housing 2. The gearing module 8 then connects the spring to fan 15.
25 A handle located on the underside of 2 to enable the winding of spring 9 is not shown.
   Figure 4C shows the device with top housing 1 in place. The top housing contains spiral
   gap 16 to allow air to flow out of the device. Air gaps in the side or rear housing would
   be provided to allow a flow of air through the device.
30

                                                - 33
   A holder 6 containing a substrate can be slid in about out of top housing 1. This slot
   comprises the frame for this embodiment. This positions the substrate above fan 15 and
   below the spiral gap 16. This design is effective in both keeping the substrate away from
   prying hands (internal to the device) and in close proximity with the fan.
 5 Figures 5 A to C show an alternative embodiment to the present invention wherein the
   arm movement is rotational.
   Figure 5A shows a device with outer housing 1. The device has an arm 4 which fully
   rotates in the top of the device 1. This in turn moves substrate 17 through the air.
10
   The mechanism for powering the rotation of the arm 4 may be similar to that shown in
   figures 4 A and B.
   The top of arm 4 is moulded into a frame 5. In this embodiment the frame and arm are
15 continuous and molded from the same piece of plastic. Frame 5 has a groove within
   which holder 6, comprising the substrate 17 may be readily inserted.
   Figure 5B shows the device with substrate 17 and holder 6 removed and 5C shows the
   holder 6 and substrate 17 only.
20
   The embodiments shown are for example only and are not intended to be limiting in any
   way to the full scope of the invention.
   Data
25 To demonstrate the effectiveness of the invention the following three experiments were
   carried out. For control the device and substrate of the present invention were tested
   against a standard mosquito coil. The tests were carried out in control chambers of 20m 3
   with a set number of mosquitos (Culex quinquefasciatus) present. The device of the
   invention was that shown in Figure 1. The arm length was 70mm. The angle of rotation
30 of the arm was 50 - 60 degrees and the initial cycle rate was approximately 160 RPM.
   The device was wound fully before each experiment began.

                                             -  34
   The initial Experiment 1 began with a fresh substrate according to the present invention.
   The substrate was a 25cm 2 , (5cm x 5cm square) pad of PET non-woven fabric with a
   20gsm weight. The substrate was impregnated with 2mg of metofluthrin.
 5 Experiment 2 began with a 5 hour old used substrate. (Otherwise the substrate was
   identical to the substrate of experiment 1.)
   Experiment 3 began with an 8 hour old used substrate. (Otherwise the substrate was
   identical to the substrate of experiments 1 and 2.)
10
   Mean KD% is the mean % knockdowns of mosquitos. (Experiments repeated 3 times).
   The mortality rate after 24        hours is also the     mean   percentage after three
   measurements.
15 1 - Fresh substrate sample
   Sample                    Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mortality
                             20 min       30 min         40 min        60 min        % (24 Hr)
   Mosquito Coil - with
   0.1% d-trans allethrin         4              13          15             18           39
   Device of invention
                                  50            55           55             63           81
   with substrate
   2 - Five hour aged substrate sample
   Sample                    Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mean KD%      Mortality
                             20 min       30 min         40 min        60 min        % (24 Hr)
   Mosquito Coil - with
   0.1% d-trans allethrin         12             15          18             21           16
   Device of invention
                                  59            61           62             72           55
   with substrate

                                               - 35
  3 - 8 hour aged substrate
  Sample                     Mean KD%       Mean KD%       Mean KD%        Mean KD% Mortality
                             20 min         30 min         40 min          60 min   % (24 Hr)
  Mosquito Coil - with
  0.1% d-trans allethrin          11              12             13            17      27
  Device of invention
                                  68             71             73             82      33
  with substrate
  As can be seen by the data on the tables, the device of the present invention offers
  substantial improvements in performance over a standard mosquito coil.
5
  The substrate is still able release high levels of metofluthrin after 8 hours.

                                               - 36
   Claims
       1. A device suitable for promoting the release of at least one active compound from
          one or more substrates; wherein the device comprises a mechanism for
          providing energy to promote the release of the at least one active compound
 5        from the one or more substrates; and wherein the mechanism is powered by
          mechanical means or stored mechanical energy; and further characterised
          wherein the device does not use or contain a source of electrical power or
          energy.
10     2. The device according to any of the previous claims where in the stored
          mechanical energy is provided by a wound metal spring.
       3. The device according to any of the previous claims wherein the stored
          mechanical energy is sufficient to power the mechanism for at least four hours,
15        preferably for at least 8 hours.
       4. The device of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the mechanism comprises gearing and
          a fan.
20     5. The device of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the mechanism comprises gearing and
          a moving arm.
       6. The device of claim 5 wherein the arm further comprises a weighted portion at
          one end.
25
       7. The device of claims 5 or 6 wherein the arm is also pivoted along its length and
          the arm moves about this pivot.
       8. The device of claim 5 wherein the moving arm is a rotating arm.
30
       9. The device of any of claims 5 to 8 wherein the arm further comprises a frame,
          suitable for the attaching of at least one substrate.

                                          - 37
   10. A substrate, comprising an active compound, suitable for use for use with the
       device of any of claims 1 to 9.
   11. The substrate of claim 10 wherein the substrate is formed from cellulosic fibres
 5     or man-made fibres.
   12. The substrate according to claim 11 wherein the man-made polymer fibres are
       polyester or polyamide fibres and preferably polyethylene terephthalate fibres.
10 13. The substrate of any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein the substrate is non-woven.
   14. The substrate of any of claims 10 to 13 wherein the substrate comprises:
       3) a weight of between 5 and 200 grams per square metre (gsm), preferably 10
15         and 100 gsm and more preferably between 15 and 50 gsm; and
       4) a size of between 5 and 100 cm2 , preferably between 10 and 50 cm2 and
           more preferably between 20 and 30 cm2
   15. The substrate of any of claims 10 to 14 wherein the substrate is fixed to a holder
20     to maintain the substrate in a substantially tensioned state.
   16. The substrate of claim 15 wherein the holder and substrate are discrete and
       separable.
25 17. The substrate of claim 16 wherein the discrete holder is formed from paper or
       card.
   18. The substrate of claim 15 wherein the holder and substrate are continuous and
       inseparable.
30
   19. The substrate of claim 18 wherein the holder is formed from man-made
       materials and ultrasonically welded to the substrate.

                                           - 38
   20. The substrate of any of claims 10 to 19 wherein the active compound is a
       pesticide and preferably wherein the pesticide is an insecticide.
   21. The substrate of claim 20 wherein the active pesticide compound is a pyrethroid,
 5     preferably metofluthrin.
   22. The substrate of any of the claims wherein the active compound comprises
       between 0.1mg and 20mgs.
10 23. The substrate of any of claims 10 to 22 wherein the substrate comprises two or
       more active compounds
   24. The substrate suitable for use in the device of any of claims 1 to 9 wherein the
       substrate comprises;
15     1) A non-woven polyester material of between 15 and 25 grams per square
           metre (gsm) and has an area between 15cm 2 and 40cm 2;
       2) A holder formed from struts of an amorphous polyester film ultrasonically
           sealed to the non-woven substrate to keep the substrate in a substantially
           tensioned state;
20     3) A pyrethroid, between 0.1 mg and 5 mg, preferably between 0.5 mg and 2.5
           mg and most preferably between 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg.
   25. The substrate according to claim 24 wherein the non-woven polyester comprises
       polyethylene terephthalate (PET), the substrate has a basis weight between 18
25     and 22 gsm, and has an area between 25 and 36 cm2 ; The holder is formed from
       struts of an amorphous PET film between 150 and 250 gsm ultrasonically sealed
       to the substrate, and the pyrethroid is metofluthrin and is present between 0.75
       and 1.5mg.
30 26. A kit comprising a device of any one of claims 1-9 and at least one substrate
       according to claims 10 to 25.

                                         - 39
  27. A method of controlling insects preferably flying insects, for at least 8 hours,
      comprising the steps of:
      4) Attaching a substrate according to any of claims 10 to 25 to a device of claims
         1 to 9;
5     5) Providing mechanical energy to the device; and
      6) Activating the device

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
