       REACTOR FOR CONTINUOUSLY TREATING POLYMERIC
                                    MATERIAL
                                       Abstract
       A system for continuously treating recycled polymeric material includes a
hopper configured to feed the recycled polymeric material into the system. An
extruder can turn the recycled polymeric material in a molten material. In some
embodiments, the extruder uses thermal fluids, electric heaters, and/or a separate
heater. The molten material is depolymerized in a reactor. In some embodiments, a
catalyst is used to aid in depolymerizing the material. In certain embodiments, the
catalyst is contained in a permeable container. The depolymerized molten material
can then be cooled via a heat exchanger. In some embodiments, multiple reactors
are used. In certain embodiments, these reactors are connected in series. In some
embodiments, the reactor(s) contain removable static mixer(s) and/or removable
annular inserts.

        REACTOR FOR CONTINUOUSLY TREATING POLYMERIC
                                      MATERIAL
Cross-Reference to Related Application
[0001]     This application is a divisional of International Patent Application no.
PCT/CA2016/051555. It claims priority from US Patent Application no.
 15/662,818, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Serial No.
 15/394,390 filed on December 29, 2016, entitled "Reactor For Continuously
Treating Polymeric Material" which is related to and claims priority benefits from
U.S. provisional patent application Serial No. 62/273,411 filed on December 30,
2015, entitled "Reactor For Continuously Treating Polymeric Material". Each of
the abovereferenced applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in
their entirety.
Field of the Invention
[0002]     The present invention relates to a method of assembling a reactor for
treating polymeric material, and using the reactor to treat polymeric material.
Background of the Invention
[0003]     Manufacturers of mechanical equipment, food packagers, and other users
of wax and grease for lubricating, sealing have a continuing need for wax and
grease compositions. Manufacturing these waxes and greases is expensive due to
the requirement of pricey petroleum feed in the manufacturing process.
[0004]     It would be advantageous to employ readily available polyethylene waste
and recycle them to produce waxes and greases at lower cost.
                                            1

[0005]     It would be advantageous to have a relatively inexpensive process for
producing wax and grease base stock. Such a process would ideally employ a
readily available inexpensive feedstock and use an inexpensive process. Waste
plastics/polymers have been used in known processes for the manufacture of such
products. Plastic waste is among the fastest growing solid waste and employing
this solid waste to produce useful wax and grease addresses growing plastic
disposal problems.
[0006]     Further, the majority of the polymer/plastics waste may be polyethylene
and due to its non-biodegradability, it has been accumulating in nature.
Polyethylene waste in general is either land-filled or burnt-former leads to the loss
of material and waste of land while the latter results in emission of green-house
gases; only a small proportion of entire plastic waste is currently being recycled as
secondary polymers which have poor quality and give low financial returns.
[0007]     In recent times, there have been considerable efforts to convert these
polymeric solid wastes into useful products such as fuels, lubricants, waxes and
grease base stocks. Existing conversion processes may not be efficient enough and
can release green-house gases into environment. Further, current techniques may
be sensitive to quality and quantity of waste plastic feed and they can have an
impact to the end product quality. This can be especially important as plastic waste
can vary in its consistency due to the varying plastic grades.
[0008]     It is desirable to provide a reactor system which is sufficiently versatile
so as to be able to generate different grades of products without requiring
substantial changes to operating conditions or throughput.
Summary of the Invention
                                             2

[0009]     In one specific aspect, the process of generating reaction products from
polymeric material comprises:
       (a)    assembling a first reactor having a first reaction zone and including a
              total number of "P" reactor modules from "N" reactor modules,
              wherein "N" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to one,
              wherein each one of the "N" reactor modules defines a respective
              module reaction zone including a catalyst material disposed therein,
              and is configured for conducting a flow of reactor-disposed molten
              polymeric material through the respective module reaction zone, such
              that, flowing of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material
              through the respective module reaction zone effects contacting of the
              flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric material with the catalyst
              material, thereby effecting depolymerization of the flowing reactor
              disposed molten polymeric material, and wherein, when "N" is a
              whole number that is greater than or equal to two, each one of the "N"
              reactor modules is configured for connection, in series, to one or more
              of the other ones of the "N" reactor modules such that a plurality of
              reactor modules are connected to one another, in series, and includes a
              plurality of module reaction zones that are disposed in fluid
              communication within one another, in series, such that the total
              number of module reaction zones correspond to the total number of
              connected reactor modules, and wherein the plurality of connected
              reactor modules is configured for conducting a flow of reactor
              disposed molten polymeric material through the plurality of module
              reaction zones, such that, flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
              polymeric material through the plurality of module reaction zones
                                            3

             effects contacting of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric
             material with the catalyst material, thereby effecting depolymerization
             of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric material, such that
             the first reaction zone includes "P" module reaction zones, wherein,
             when "P" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to two, the
             assembling of the first reactor includes connecting the "P" reactor
             modules to one another, in series, such that "P" reaction zones are
             disposed in fluid communication with one another in series;
       (b)   heating polymeric material to generate a molten polymeric material;
       (c)   flowing the molten polymeric material through the first reaction zone
             to effect generation of a first depolymerization product material;
       (d)   collecting the first depolymerization product material;
       (e)   suspending the flowing of the molten polymeric material through the
             first reaction zone; and
       (f)   modifying the first reactor,
such that, when "P" is equal to one, the modifying includes connecting a total
number of "R" of the "N-I" reactor modules, which have not been used in the
assembly of the first reactor, to the first reactor, wherein "R" is a whole number
from 1 to "N-i", such that another reactor is created and includes a total number of
"R+ 1" reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and such that
the another reactor includes a second reaction zone including "R+ 1" module
reaction zones, wherein the another reactor is configured to conduct a flow of
molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects generation of another
depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another reactor; and
                                             4

when "P" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to two, but less than or
equal to "N-I", the modifying includes either one of: (a) removing a total number
of "Q" of the "P" reactor modules from the first reactor, wherein "Q" is a whole
number from one to "P-i", such that another reactor is created and includes a total
number of "P-Q" reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and
such that the another reactor includes a second reaction zone including "P-Q"
module reaction zones, wherein the another reactor is configured to conduct a flow
of molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects of generation of
another depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another
reactor, or (b) connecting a total number of "R" of the "N-P" reactor modules,
which have not been used in the assembly of the first reactor, to the first reactor,
wherein "R" is a whole number from 1 to "N-P", such that another reactor is
created and includes a total number of "P+R" reactor modules that are connected to
one another, in series, and also includes a second reaction zone including "P+R"
module reaction zones, wherein the another reactor is configured to conduct a flow
of molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects generation of another
depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another reactor; and
when "P" is equal to "N", the modifying includes removing a total number of "Q"
of the "P" reactor modules from the first reactor, wherein "Q" is a whole number
from one to "P-I", such that another reactor is created and includes a total number
of "P-Q" reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and such that
the another reactor includes a second reaction zone, including "P-Q" module
reaction zones, wherein the another reactor is configured to conduct a flow of
molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
                                           5

polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects generation of another
depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another reactor.
[0010]    A method for continuously treating polymeric material can include
selecting a solid polymeric material; heating the solid polymeric material in an
extruder to create a molten polymeric material; filtering the molten polymeric
material; placing the molten polymeric material through a chemical
depolymerization process in a reactor to create a depolymerized polymeric
material; cooling the depolymerized polymeric material; and purifying the
depolymerized polymeric material. In some embodiments, the method can also
include using the gas and oil created during the purification of the depolymerized
polymeric material to run part of the method.
[0011]    In some embodiments, the filtering involves a screen charger or a filter
bed. In certain embodiments, the solid polymeric material is a recycled plastic.
[0012]    In some embodiments, the depolymerization process utilizes a catalyst
such as [Fe-Cu-Mo-P]/A 20 3. In other or the same embodiments, the
depolymerization process utilizes a second reactor. In certain embodiments, the
reactors are connected in series, stacked vertically, and/or stacked horizontally.
[0013]    In some embodiments, the reactor(s) include(s) static mixer(s).
[0014]    In some embodiments, the purification utilizes one of flash separation,
absorbent beds, clay polishing or film evaporators.
[0015]    A system for continuously treating recycled polymeric material can
include a hopper configured to feed the recycled polymeric material into the
system; an extruder configured to turn the recycled polymeric material in a molten
material; a first reactor configured to depolymerize the molten material; a heat
                                           6

exchanger configured to cool the depolymerized molten material; a second reactor;
and/or a separate heater configured to aid the extruder.
[0016]     In certain embodiments, the extruder utilizes thermal fluid(s) and/or
electric heater(s). In some embodiments, the reactors are connected in series and/or
utilize a catalyst such as [Fe-Cu-Mo-P]/A 20 3 . In some embodiments, the catalyst
can be contained in a permeable container.
[0017]     In certain embodiments, the reactor(s) contains spacer tube(s), static
mixer(s) and/or annular insert(s). In certain embodiments, the static mixer(s)
and/or annular insert(s) are removable.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0018]     FIG. 1 is a flowchart illustrating a process for treating polymeric
material.
[0019]     FIG. 2 is a schematic of a system including a reactor having a total of
five reactor modules.
[0020]     FIG. 3 is a schematic of the reactor illustrated in FIG. 2, with reactor
modified by removing one reactor module such that the reactor has a total of four
reactor modules.
[0021]     FIG. 4 is a schematic of the reactor illustrated in FIG. 2, with the reactor
modified by adding one reactor module such that the reactor has a total of six
reactor modules.
[0022]     FIG. 5 is schematic of a system including a reactor with two reactor
modules, namely an inlet reactor module and an outlet reactor module.
                                             7

[0023]    FIG. 6 is a cross-section side elevation view of a reactor module, with
some of the catalyst material removed for clarity.
[0024]     FIG. 7 is a cross-section elevation view from one end of the reactor
module of FIG. 6, with the baffles and some of the catalyst material removed for
clarity.
[0025]    FIG. 8 is a cross-section side elevation view of connected reactor
modules, with the baffles and the catalyst material removed for clarity.
[0026]    FIG. 9 is a front elevation view of one end of an end cap assembly of a
reactor module.
[0027]    FIG. 10 is a cross-section side elevation view of the end of the end cap
assembly illustrated in FIG. 9.
[0028]    FIG. 11 is a cross-section front-elevation view of the end of the end cap
assembly of FIG. 9, installed within a pipe spool of a reactor module.
[0029]    FIG. 12 is a front-elevation view of an end of an end cap assembly of a
reactor module that is opposite to the end illustrated in FIG. 9;
[0030]    FIG. 13 is a cross-section front-elevation view of the end of the end cap
assembly illustrated in FIG. 12, installed within a pipe spool of a reactor module;
[0031]    FIG. 14 is a partial cross-section perspective view of a pipe spool,
baffles, wire screen, and spacer tube of a reactor module.
[0032]    FIG. 15 is a schematic illustration of an upstream portion of an inlet
reactor module, with the inlet reactor module being shown connected to the heater
of the system.
                                            8

[0033]     FIG. 16 is a schematic illustration of an downstream portion of the inlet
reactor module, illustrated in FIG. 15, connected to an upstream portion of an
outlet reactor module of the reactor.
[0034]     FIG. 17 is a schematic illustration of a downstream portion of the outlet
reactor module, illustrated in FIG. 16, connected to the heat exchanger of the
system (for cooling of the molten product material).
[0035]     FIG. 18 is a schematic illustration of an intermediate reaction module that
is integrateable within the reactor of the system illustrated in FIG. 16.
[0036]     FIG. 19 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with a
removable static mixer configured to be heated via thermal fluid/ molten salt.
[0037]     FIG. 20 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with a
removable static mixer configured to use electric heating.
[0038]     FIG. 21 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with a
removable annular insert configured to be heated via thermal fluid/ molten salt.
[0039]     FIG. 22 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with a
removable annular insert configured to use electric heating.
[0040]     FIG. 23 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with
empty internals configured to be heated via thermal fluid/ molten salt.
[0041]     FIG. 24 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor with
empty internals configured to use electric heating.
[0042]     FIG. 25 is a cross-section front-elevation view of a group of catalytic
reactors like those shown in FIG. 19 to 24 arranged in parallel.
                                            9

[0043]     FIG. 26 is a cross-section side-elevation view of the parallel catalytic
reactor arrangement of FIG. 25 show in a horizontal configuration.
[0044]     FIG. 27 is a cross-section side-elevation view of the parallel catalytic
reactor arrangement of FIG. 25 show in a vertical configuration.
[0045]     FIG. 28 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a vertical helical internal
catalytic reactor arrangement with two reactors connected in series.
[0046]     FIG. 29 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a vertical annular
catalytic reactor arrangement with two reactors connected in series.
[0047]     FIG. 30 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a vertical catalytic
reactor arrangement with two empty reactors connected in series.
[0048]     FIG. 31 is a perspective view of a horizontal reactor with an internal
removable helical mixer.
Detailed Description of Illustrative Embodiment(s)
[0049]     A process of treating polymeric material, such as waste polymeric
material, within a reactor of a system is described below. Suitable waste polymeric
material includes waste plastic material. Virgin plastics can also be used.
[0050]     FIG. 1 illustrates Process 10 for treating polymeric material. Process 10
can be run in batches, but more preferably is a continuous process. The parameters
of Process 10, including but not limited to temperature, flow rate of plastic and
total number of pre-heat, reaction, or cooling segments, can be modified to create
end products of varying molecular weights. For example, raising the temperature
and/or decreasing the flow rate through the reaction sections or changing the
number of reaction sections will result in the product of a lower molecular weight.
                                           10

[0051]    In Material Selection Stage 1, polymeric feed is selected and/or prepared
for treatment. In some embodiments, the polymeric feed in sorted/selected to
include polyethylene material. In other embodiments, the polymeric feed in
sorted/selected to include polypropylene material. In other embodiments, the
polymeric feed in sorted/selected to include both polyethylene and polypropylene
material. In some embodiments, the feed can contain up to 5% polypropylene,
small quantities of polystyrene, and trace quantities of undesirable additives, such
as PVC, ash, grit, or other unknown particles.
[0052]    In some embodiments, the material selected in Material Selection Stage 1
comprises recycled plastics. In other or the same embodiments, the material
selected in Material Selection Stage 1 comprises recycled plastics and/or virgin
plastics.
[0053]    In some embodiments, the material selected in Material Selection Stage 1
is heated in an extruder and undergoes Pre-Filtration Process 3. In some
embodiments, the extruder is used to increase the temperature and/or pressure of
the incoming plastic and is used to control the flow rates of the plastic. In some
embodiments, the extruder is complemented by or replaced entirely by
pump/heater exchanger combination.
[0054]    Pre-Filtration Process 3 can employ both screen changers and filter beds,
along with other filtering techniques/devices to remove contaminants from and
purify the heated material. The resulting filtered material is then moved into an
optional Pre-Heat Stage 4 which brings the filtered material to a higher
temperature before it enters Reaction Stage 5. Pre-Heat Stage 4 can employ,
among other devices and techniques, static and/or dynamic mixers and heat
exchangers such as internal fins and heat pipes.
                                          11

[0055]     Material in Reaction Stage 5 undergoes depolymerization. This
depolymerization can be a purely thermal reaction and/or it can employ catalysts.
Depending on the starting material and the desired end product, depolymerization
might be used for a slight or extreme reduction of the molecular weight of the
starting material. In some embodiments, the catalyst used is a zeolite or alumina
supported system or a combination of the two. In some embodiments, the catalyst
is [Fe-Cu-Mo-P]/A 20 3 prepared by binding a ferrous-copper complex to an
alumina or zeolite support and reacting it with an acid comprising metals and non
metals.
[0056]     Reaction Stage 5 can employ a variety of techniques/devices including,
among other things, fixed beds, horizontal and/or vertical reactors, and/or static
mixers. In some embodiments, Reaction Stage 5 employs multiple reactors and/or
reactors divided into multiple sections.
[0057]     After Reaction Stage 5, the depolymerized material enters optional
Cooling Stage 6. Cooling Stage 6 can employ heat exchangers, along with other
techniques/ devices to bring the depolymerized material down to a workable
temperature before it enters Purification Stage 7.
[0058]     In some embodiments, cleaning/purification of the material via such
methods such as nitrogen stripping occurs before Cooling Stage 6.
[0059]     Purification Stage 7 involves the refinement and/or decontamination of
the depolymerized material. Techniques/devices that can used in Purification Stage
7 include, but are not limited to, flash separation, absorbent beds, clay polishing,
distillation, vacuum distillation and filtration to remove solvents, oils, color bodies,
ash, inorganics, and coke. In some embodiments, a thin or wiped film evaporator is
used to remove gas, oil, and/or grease from the depolymerized material. In some
                                            12

embodiments, the oil, gas and grease can in turn be burned to help run various
Stages of Process 10.
[0060]    Process 10 ends at Finished Wax Stage 8 in which the initial starting
material selected in Material Selection Stage 1 has been turned into wax. In at least
some embodiments, the wax at Finished Wax Stage 8 is commercially viable and
does not need additional processing and/or refining.
[0061]    Referring to FIG. 2, system 1000 includes reactor 100 with five reactor
modules 102(a) through 102(e). Reactor modules 102 can vary in dimensions
and/or be connected in parallel and/or series. In other embodiments, various
numbers of reactor modules 102 can be used. For example, FIG. 3 shows system
 1000 with four reactor modules, 102(a) through 102(d) Similarly, FIG. 4 shows
system 1000 with six reactor modules 102(a) through 102(f). The ability to
customize the number of reactor modules 102 allows for greater control of the
amount of depolymerization.
[0062]    System 1000 can include hopper 111 for receiving polymeric material
and/or directing the supply of the polymeric material to optional extruder 106. In
some embodiments, extruder 106 processes the polymeric material received from
hopper 111 by generating a molten polymeric material. The temperature of the
polymeric material being processed by extruder 106 is controlled by modulating
the level of shear and/or the heat being applied to the polymeric material by
extruder heater(s) 105. Extruder heaters can use a variety of heat sources including,
but not limited to, electric, thermal fluids, and/or combustion gases. The heat is
modulated by a controller, in response to temperatures sensed by temperature
sensor(s) 107.
                                            13

[0063]    In some embodiments, pressure sensor 109 measures the pressure of the
molten polymeric material being discharged from extruder 106, to prevent, or at
least reduce, risk of pressure spikes. The discharged molten polymeric material is
pressurized by pump 110 to affect its flow through heating zone 108 and reactor
 100. While flowing through reactor 100, the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material contacts a catalyst material which causes depolymerization.
[0064]    Pressure sensor(s) 109 and/or temperature sensor(s) 107 can also be used
to measure temperature and/or pressure, respectively, of the reactor-disposed
molten polymeric material as it flows through reactor 100. Pressure sensor(s) 109
can monitor for plugs before and/or after each reaction zones. Pressure sensor(s)
 109 can also maintain system pressure below a maximum pressure such as the
maximum pressure of reactor 100 is designed for. Over-pressure can be controlled
by feedback from pressure transmitter 109 to a controller which transmits a
command signal to shut down extruder 106 and pump 110, and thereby prevent the
pressure from further increasing.
[0065]    In cases when shutdown of extruder 106 does not relieve the over
pressure, dump valve 117 can be opened into a container to remove material from
system 1000 and avoid an over pressure situation. During shutdown dump valve
 117 can be opened to purge system 1000 with nitrogen to remove leftover material
to avoid clogs and degraded material during the next start up.
[0066]    System 1000 can also include a pressure relief device, such as a relief
valve or a rupture disk, disposed at the outlet of extruder 106, to relieve pressure
from system 1000, in case of over-pressure.
[0067]    Temperature sensor(s) 107 can facilitate control of the temperature of the
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material being flowed through reactor 100. This
                                          14

allows more precise control of the chemical reaction and the resulting
polymerization. Temperature sensor(s) 107 also aid in maintaining the temperature
below a predetermined maximum temperature, for example the maximum design
temperature of reactor 100.
[0068]     The temperature is controlled by a controller (not shown), which
modulates the heat being applied by heaters 118 disposed in heat transfer
communication with the reaction zones 102(a) through 102(e) of reactor 100, in
response to the temperatures sensed by temperature sensor(s) 119.
[0069]     Flow control can also be provided for within system 1000. In some
embodiments, system 1000 includes valve 115, disposed at the discharge of
extruder 106, for controlling flow from extruder 106 to other unit operations within
system 1000. Valve 116 facilitates recirculation. Valve 117 enables collection of
product.
[0070]     During operation, valve 115 can be closed in order to recirculate the
molten polymeric material and increase the temperature of the molten polymeric
material to a desired temperature. In this case valve 116 would be open, valve 117
would be closed, extruder 106 would be "OFF", and pump 110 would be
recirculating.
[0071]     Generated molten product material 112 is cooled within heat exchanger
 114, which can be, among other ways, water jacketed, air cooled, and/or cooled by
a refrigerant. A fraction of the cooled generated molten product material can be
recirculated (in which case valve 116 would be open), for reprocessing and/or for
energy conservation.
                                          15

[0072]     In some embodiments, system 1000 is configured for purging by nitrogen
to mitigate oxidation of the molten product material and the creation of explosive
conditions.
[0073]     In another embodiment illustrated in FIG. 5, System 2000 includes
reactor 600. Reactor 600 has two reactor modules, namely, inlet reactor module
300 and outlet reactor module 400. System 2000 also includes extruder 606 for
receiving polymeric material. Extruder 606 processes polymeric material by
generating a molten polymeric material. The temperature of the polymeric material
being processed through reactor 600 is controlled by modulating the heat being
applied to the polymeric material by process heaters HEO 1, HE02, HE04, HE06,
HE08. Temperature sensors TCO1, TC04, TC06, TC07 TC09, TC1O, TC12 are
provided to measure the temperature of the molten material within reactor 600.
Temperature controllers TC03, TC05, TC08, TC1 1 are provided to monitor and
control the temperature of process heaters HEO1, HE02, HE04, HE06, and HE08.
Flange heaters HE03, HE05, HE07, and HE09 are also provided to mitigate heat
losses through the flanged connections.
[0074]     The discharged molten polymeric feed material is conducted through
heater 608 and reactor 600, in series. While flowing through reactor 600, the
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material is contacted with the catalyst material
to affect the depolymerization. The generated molten product material is cooled
within heat exchanger 614, which can be, among other things, water jacketed, air
cooled, or cooled by a refrigerant. In some embodiments, the waste heat from the
cooling molten product can be used to run other processes. A cooling section
heater HE 10 is provided to melt wax that solidifies in cooling section.
                                          16

[0075]     In both System 1000 and System 2000 reactors 100 and 600 include one
or more reactor modules. Each reactor modules includes a respective module
reaction zone in which the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material is brought
into contact with a catalyst material over a module-defined residence time, thereby
causing depolymerization of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material. In some of these embodiments, the module-defined residence time of at
least two of the reactor modules is the same or substantially the same. In some of
these embodiments, as between at least some of the plurality of module-defined
residence times are different. In some of these embodiments the catalyst material
of at least two of the reactor modules are the same or substantially the same. In
some of these embodiments the catalyst material of at least two of the reactor
modules are different.
[0076]     In some embodiments, each of the reactor modules includes a reactor
disposed molten polymeric material-permeable container that contains the catalyst
material. The container is configured to receive molten polymeric material such
that at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of the received molten
polymeric material is effected by the catalyst material, and to discharge a molten
product material that includes depolymerization reaction products (and can also
include unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate reaction products, or
both). Flowing of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material through the
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material-permeable container effects contacting
between the catalyst material and the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material,
for effecting the at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of the
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material. In this respect, the flowing reactor
disposed molten polymeric material permeates through the catalyst material within
the container, and while permeating through the catalyst material, contacts the
                                           17

catalyst material contained within the container, for effecting the at least partial
depolymerization of at least a fraction of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material.
[0077]     In both System 1000 and System 2000 a first reactor is assembled from
the reactor modules. The first reactor has a first reaction zone and includes a total
number of "P" reactor modules from "N" reactor modules, wherein "N" is a whole
number that is greater than or equal to one.
[0078]     Each one of the "N" reactor modules defines a respective module
reaction zone including a catalyst material disposed therein, and is configured for
conducting a flow of reactor-disposed molten polymeric material through the
respective module reaction zone, such that, flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material through the respective module reaction zone brings it into
contract with the catalyst material, thereby causing at least partial
depolymerization of at least a fraction of the flowing reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material. In this respect, the first reaction zone includes "P" module
reaction zones.
[0079]     When "N" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to two, each
one of the "N" reactor modules is configured for connection, in series, to one or
more of the other "N" reactor modules such that a plurality of reactor modules are
connected to one another, in series, and includes a plurality of module reaction
zones that are disposed in fluid communication within one another, in series, such
that the total number of module reaction zones correspond to the total number of
connected reactor modules. The plurality of connected reactor modules is
configured for conducting a flow of reactor-disposed molten polymeric material
through the plurality of module reaction zones, such that it comes into contact with
                                           18

the catalyst material, thereby effecting at least partial depolymerization of at least a
fraction of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric material.
[0080]     When "P" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to two, the
assembling of the first reactor includes connecting the "P" reactor modules to one
another, in series, such that "P" reaction zones are disposed in fluid
communication with one another in series.
[0081]     In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2, "P" is equal to five, such that
reactor 100 includes five reactor modules 102(a) through 102(e), the reaction zone
consisting of five module reaction zones 104(a) through 104(e), each one
respective to one of the five reactor modules. It is understood that "P" can be more
or less than five.
[0082]     In another embodiment illustrated in FIG. 5, "P" is equal to two, such
that reactor 600 includes two reactor modules: inlet reactor module 300 and outlet
reactor module 400.
[0083]     Molten polymeric material, for supplying to the constructed reactor, is
generated by heating a polymeric material. In some embodiments, the heating is
caused by a heater. In FIG. 2 the heating is caused by a combination of extruder
 106 and separate heater 108. In FIG. 5 the heating is caused by a combination of
extruder 606 and separate heater 608. In such embodiments, the generated molten
polymeric material is forced from the extruder, flowed through a separate heater,
and then supplied to the module reaction zone. In some embodiments, the
extruders are configured to supply sufficient heat to the polymeric material such
that the generated molten polymeric material is at a sufficiently high temperature
for supply to the reactor, and a separate heater is not required.
                                           19

[0084]    In FIG. 2, pump 110 receives molten polymeric material from extruder
 106 and effects transport (or "flowing") of the molten polymeric material through
heater 108, and then through the first reaction zone. In some embodiments,
extruder 106 is configured to impart sufficient force to affect the desired flow of
the generated molten polymeric material, such that pump 110 is optional. FIG. 5
shows an example without a pump.
[0085]    In some embodiments, the molten polymeric material is derived from a
polymeric material feed that is heated to effected generation of the molten
polymeric material. In some embodiments, the polymeric material feed includes
primary virgin granules of polyethylene. The virgin granules can include low
density polyethylene (LDPE), linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE), high
density polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), or a mixture including
combinations of LDPE, LLDPE, HDPE, and PP.
[0086]    In some embodiments, the polymeric material feed includes waste
polymeric material feed. Suitable waste polymeric material feeds include mixed
polyethylene waste, mixed polypropylene waste, and a mixture including mixed
polyethylene waste and mixed polypropylene waste. The mixed polyethylene
waste can include low density polyethylene (LDPE), linear low density
polyethylene (LLDPE), high density polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), or
a mixture including combinations of LDPE, LLDPE, HDPE, and PP. In some
embodiments, the mixed polyethylene waste includes grocery bags, milk pouches,
stationery files. In some embodiments, the waste polymeric material feed includes
up to 10 weight % of material that is other than polymeric material, based on the
total weight of the waste polymeric material feed.
                                          20

[0087]     The molten polymeric material is supplied to the reactor, and the molten
polymeric material is flowed through the first reaction zone (that is, including the
"P" reaction zones) as reactor-disposed molten polymeric material. The flowing of
the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material through the first reaction zone
brings it into contact with the catalyst material generating a molten product
material, including a depolymerization product material (and, in some
embodiments, also includes unreacted molten polymeric material and/or
intermediate reaction products). The molten product material is collected.
[0088]     In some embodiments, the catalyst material includes [Fe-Cu-Mo
P]/A120 3. The catalyst is prepared by binding a ferrous-copper complex to an
alumina support and reacting it with an acid comprising metals and non-metals to
obtain the catalyst material. Other suitable catalyst materials include zeolite,
mesoporous silica, H-mordenite and alumina. The system can also be run in the
absence of a catalyst and produce waxes through thermal degradation.
[0089]     The generated molten product material is discharged from and
collected/recovered from the reactor. In some embodiments, the collection of the
molten product material is effected by discharging a flow of the molten product
material from the reactor. In those embodiments with a plurality of reactor
modules, the molten product material is discharged from the first reactor module
and supplied to the next reactor module in the series for effecting further
depolymerization within the next reactor module in the series, and this continues
as-between each adjacent pair of reactor modules in the series.
[0090]     In some embodiments, the generated depolymerization product material
includes waxes, greases, and grease-base stocks. Commercially available greases
are generally made by mixing grease base stocks with small amounts of specific
                                          21

additives to provide them with desired physical properties. Generally, greases
include four types: (a) admixture of mineral oils and solid lubricants; (b) blends of
residuum (residual material that remains after the distillation of petroleum
hydrocarbons), uncombined fats, rosin oils, and pitches; (c) soap thickened mineral
oils; and (d) synthetic greases, such as poly-alpha olefins and silicones.
[0091]     In some embodiments, the polymeric feed material is one of, or a
combination of, virgin polyethylene (any one of, or combinations of, HDPE,
LDPE, LLDPE, and MDPE), virgin polypropylene, or post-consumer, or post
industrial, polyethylene or polypropylene (exemplary sources including bags, jugs,
bottles, pails, and the like), and it is desirable to convert such polymeric feed
material into a higher melting point wax (having a melting point from 106 degrees
Celsius to 135 degrees Celsius), a medium melting point wax (having melting
point from 86 degrees Celsius to 105 degrees Celsius), a lower melting point wax
(having a melting point from 65 degrees Celsius to 85 degrees Celsius), an even
lower melting point wax (having a melting point from 40 degrees Celsius to 65
degrees Celsius) using an embodiment of the system disclosed herein. In each case,
the conversion is effected by heating the polymeric feed material so as to generate
molten polymeric material, and then contacting the molten polymeric material with
the catalyst material within a reaction zone disposed at a temperature of between
325 degrees Celsius and 450 degrees Celsius. The quality of wax (higher, medium,
or lower melting point wax) that is generated depends on the residence time of the
molten polymeric material within the reaction zone. When operating in a
continuous system depending on the flowrate of the extruder or gear pump
residence times vary from 1-120 minutes, preferably 5-60 minutes, with 1-12
reactor modules attached in series. In some of these embodiments, the supply and
heating of the polymeric feed material is effected by a combination of an extruder
                                              22

and a pump, wherein the material discharged from the extruder is supplied to the
pump. In some of these embodiments, extruder 106 is a 10 HP, 1.5-inch (3.81 cm)
Cincinnati Milacron Pedestal Extruder, Model Apex 1.5, and the pump 110 is sized
at 1.5 HP for a 1.5-inch (3.81 cm) line.
[0092]    In some embodiments, the polymeric feed material can consist of virgin
crosslinked polyethylene. In some embodiments, the crosslinked polyethylene feed
material is a blend of low density crosslinked polyethylene and high density
crosslinked polyethylene.
[0093]    Tests have concluded that crosslinked polyethylene can be used to
produce various waxes when run through the depolymerization process. It is
believed the virgin crosslinked polyethylene that was used in these tests was
synthesised using a radical initiator (likely a peroxide).
[0094]    Low density crosslinked polyethylene and high density crosslinked
polyethylene are similar to their non-crosslinked precursors at least in the sense
that they have a melting point from -105 degrees Celsius to 130 degrees Celsius;
and there are limits to what end products can be reached depending on which feed
material is used. For example, starting with low density crosslinked polyethylene
as a feed material does not allow one to produce A12 0 3 .
[0095]    One unique outcome of using crosslinked polyethylene as a feed stock is
the increase in a noticeable odor in the final product. It was discovered that these
odors arise from a family of aromatics created during the crosslinking process,
further the belief that the polyethylene was synthesized using a radical initiator.
                                           23

[0096]    Several techniques have been found to help reduce, if not eliminate, the
odor from the end product. These techniques in order of their success, include
aspiration and degassing with nitrogen (N 2 ).
[0097]    It was also concluded that low density crosslinked polyethylene can
successfully be combined with high density polyethylene as a feedstock to create
wax. It should be noted that these blends do, at least initially, contain an odor.
[0098]    A pressure transducer PT0 1 monitors for plugs within the extruder (as
well as prior to PT02, see below) for maintaining system pressure below a
maximum pressure (for example, maximum design pressure of the reactor 100).
Likewise, pressure transducer PT02 monitors for plugs elsewhere within the
system. Over-pressure is controlled by feedback from the pressure transmitted by
PT0 1 and PT02 to a controller which transmits a command signal to shut down the
extruder 106 and the pump 110, and thereby prevent the pressure from further
increasing.
[0099]    In some embodiments, reactor 100 is first reactor 100, and the reaction
zone of the first reactor is a first reaction zone, and the flowing of the molten
polymeric material, through the first reaction zone, is suspended (such as, for
example, discontinued). After the suspending, the first reactor is modified
[0100]    When "P" is equal to one, the modifying includes connecting a total
number of "R" of the "N-I" reactor modules, which have not been used in the
assembly of the first reactor, to the first reactor, wherein "R" is a whole number
from 1 to "N-I", such that another reactor is created and includes a total number of
"R+ 1"reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and such that
the another reactor includes a second reaction zone including "R+ 1" module
reaction zones. The another reactor is configured to conduct a flow of molten
                                             24

polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material through the second reaction zone effects generation of another
depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another reactor;
[0101]     When "P" is a whole number that is greater than or equal to two, but less
than or equal to "N-I", the modifying includes either one of:
       (a)   removing a total number of "Q" of the "P" reactor modules from the
             first reactor, wherein "Q" is a whole number from one to "P-i", such
             that another reactor is created and includes a total number of "P-Q"
             reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and such
             that the another reactor includes a second reaction zone including "P
             Q" module reaction    zones, wherein the another reactor is configured
             to conduct a flow of molten polymeric material, such that flowing of
             the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material through the second
             reaction zone effects of generation of another depolymerization
             product material and its discharge from the another reactor, or
       (b)   connecting a total number of "R" of the "N-P" reactor modules, which
             have not been used in the assembly of the first reactor, to the first
             reactor, wherein "R" is a whole number from 1 to "N-P", such that
             another reactor is created and includes a total number of "P+R"
             reactor modules that are connected to one another, in series, and also
             includes a second reaction zone including "P+R" module reaction
             zones, wherein the another reactor is configured to conduct a flow of
             molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed
             molten polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects
             generation of another depolymerization product material and its
             discharge from the another reactor;
                                          25

[01021    When "P" is equal to "N", the modifying includes removing a total
number of "Q" of the "P" reactor modules from the first reactor, wherein "Q" is a
whole number from one to "P-I", such that another reactor is created and includes
a total number of "P-Q" reactor modules that are connected to one another, in
series, and such that the another reactor includes a second reaction zone, including
"P-Q" module reaction zones. The another reactor is configured to conduct a flow
of molten polymeric material, such that flowing of the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material through the second reaction zone effects generation of another
depolymerization product material and its discharge from the another reactor.
[0103]    In some embodiments, after the modifying of the first reactor to effect
creation of another reactor (by either one of connecting/adding or removing reactor
modules), another reactor is used to generate a second depolymerization product
material. In this respect, polymeric material is heated to generate a molten
polymeric material, and the molten polymeric material is flowed through the
second reaction zone, to effect generation of a second depolymerization product
material. The second depolymerization product material is then collected from the
reactor.
[0104]    In some embodiments, the same catalyst material is disposed within each
one of the "N" reactor modules.
[0105]    In some embodiments, the reaction zone of each one of the "N" reactor
modules is the same or substantially the same.
[0106]    Referring to FIGS. 6-14, in at least some embodiments, each reactor
modules 200 includes pipe spool 201. In some embodiments, reactor module 200
includes pipe spool 201 with opposite first and second ends (only one is shown in
                                           26

the illustrated embodiment), with flanges 230 at each end, for facilitating
connection with other reactor module(s) 200.
[0107]     Reactor module 200 includes inlet 202A at a first end of the spool, outlet
202B at the opposite second end of the spool, and fluid passage 206 extending
between inlet 202A and outlet 202B. Fluid passage 206 includes a catalyst
material-containing space that is disposed within the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material-permeable container, with catalyst material 204 disposed
within catalyst material-containing space 216. Catalyst material-containing space
216 defines module reaction zone 205 of reactor module 200.
[0108]     Reactor module 200 is configured for receiving reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material by inlet 202A and conducting the received molten polymeric
material through fluid passage 206 such that it is brought into contact with catalyst
material 204. This causes at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of
the molten polymeric material such that molten product material, including
depolymerization reaction products (and, in some embodiments, unreacted molten
polymeric material and/or intermediate reaction products (such as partially
depolymerized material)), are produced. Reactor module 200 then discharges the
molten product material from outlet 202B.
[0109]     Relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 of fluid passage 206
extends between inlet 202A and outlet 202B, and is disposed in fluid
communication with catalyst material-containing space 216 via a wire screen. Wire
screen 208 is disposed within pipe spool 201, segmenting fluid passage 206 into
relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 and catalyst material comprising
space 204. Wire screen 208 contains catalyst material 204 within catalyst material
                                           27

containing space 216, and thereby defines molten polymeric material-permeable
container 203.
[0110]     Wire screen 208 is disposed in spaced apart relationship relative to fluid
passage-defining internal wall 210 of pipe spool 201, and extends longitudinally
through the length of pipe spool 201. The space between wire screen 208 and
internal wall 210 defines relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 of fluid
passage 206. Fluid communication between fluid passage portion 218 and catalyst
material-containing space 216 is made possible via spaces within wire screen 208.
Thus wire screen 208 permits permeation of the molten polymeric material from
relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 to catalyst material-containing
space 216 (and thereby facilitates contact of the molten polymeric material with
catalyst material 204 within the reaction zone), and also from catalyst material
containing space 216 to relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 (for
discharging the molten product material including the depolymerization reaction
products and unreacted molten polymeric material and/or intermediate reaction
products), while preventing, or substantially preventing, egress of catalyst material
204 from catalyst material-containing space 216 to relatively unobstructed fluid
passage portion 218.
[0111]     In some embodiments, pipe spool 201 is cylindrical, and wire screen 208
is also cylindrical and is nested within pipe spool 201, such that relatively
unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 is defined within the annular space between
internal wall 210 of pipe spool 201 and wire screen 208, and catalyst material
containing space 216 is disposed within wire screen 208. In these embodiments,
the catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 216 is radially spaced
outwardly, relative to relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218, from the
axis of pipe spool 201.
                                           28

[0112]     In some embodiments, spacer tube 214 extends through the space defined
by wire screen 208 and encourages flow of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material to the portions of pipe spool 201 that are in close disposition to a heat
transfer element (see below). This embodiment helps maintain the reactor-disposed
molten polymeric material at a desired temperature. Also, by occupying space,
spacer tube 214 effectively reduces the volume of module reaction zone 205,
thereby increasing the velocity of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material.
[0113]     In some embodiments, spacer tube 214 extends longitudinally through
the length of pipe spool 201. In some embodiments, catalyst material-containing
space 216 is defined within the annular space between spacer tube 214 and wire
screen 208.
[0114]     Reactor-disposed molten polymeric material is received by inlet 202A at
the first end of pipe spool 201, and, while traversing pipe spool 201, via fluid
passage 206, to the opposite end, is conductible, across wire screen 208, between
relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218 and catalyst material-containing
space 216. This produces a molten product material, including depolymerization
reaction products (and, in some embodiments, unreacted molten polymeric
material and/or intermediate reaction products), that is discharged via outlet 202B
at the opposite second end of pipe spool 201. While being conducted through
catalyst-material containing space 216, the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material is brought into contact with catalyst material 204 causing at least partial
depolymerization of at least a fraction of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material.
                                          29

[0115]     Referring to FIG. 6 and 14, in some embodiments, baffles 222, 223 are
disposed within relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 218. In some
embodiments, baffle 222 is welded to end cap 212(a) and is in the form of a
resilient wire that is wrapped about wire screen 208. In some embodiments, baffle
223 is in the form of a resilient wire that is pressed through the space between pipe
spool 201 and wire screen 208, welded to end cap 212(a), and biased against
interior wall 210 of spool 201.
[0116]     Baffles 222, 223 encourage mixing of the flowing reactor-disposed
molten polymeric material and promote uniform distribution of heat and mitigate
charring of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material, which could result in
depositing of solid organic material on the structures defining fluid passage 206
and contribute to fouling. Baffles 222, 223 also encourages flow of reactor
disposed molten polymeric material from the relatively unobstructed fluid passage
portion 218 towards catalyst material-containing space 216 and increase contact
between the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material and catalyst material 204.
[0117]     Referring to FIGS. 9-13, end cap assembly 211 is provided, and mounted
within the interior space of pipe spool 201. End cap assembly 211 includes rigid
end caps 212(a) and 212(b), wire screen 208, and spacer tube 214. End cap 212(a)
is disposed proximate to one end of pipe spool 201, and end cap 212(b) is disposed
proximate to an opposite end of pipe spool 201. In some embodiments, end caps
212(a), and 212(b) are also permeable to flow of reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material.
[0118]     Wire screen 208 is disposed between end caps 212(a) and 212(b), and its
axial positioning within pipe spool 201, relative to pipe spool 201, is determined
by end caps 212(a) and 212(b). One end of wire screen 208 is welded to end cap
                                           30

212(a), while the opposite end of wire screen 208 is disposed within a recess
formed in end cap 212(b), such that catalyst material-containing space 216, within
which catalyst material 204 is contained, is defined within the space bounded by
wire screen 208 and end caps 212(a) and 212(b).
[0119]    Spacer tube 214 is disposed between end caps 212(a) and 212(b). One
end of spacer tube 214 is welded to end cap 212(a), while the opposite end of
spacer tube 214 is disposed within a recess formed in end cap 212(b).
[0120]    Referring to FIGS. 11 and 12, end cap 212(a) is welded to pipe spool
201, for effecting connection of end cap assembly 211 to pipe spool 201. In this
respect, end cap 212(a) includes a plurality of rigid end cap spacers 2120(a) to (c),
projecting radially outwardly from end cap integrator 2122 (to which wire screen
208 and spacer tube 214 are welded). End cap spacers 2120(a) to (c) are received
within corresponding recess provided within end cap integrator 2122. End cap
spacers 2120(a) to (c) are spaced-apart from one another such that fluid
communication allowed between reactor modules 200 that are connected to one
another, and, specifically between reaction zones of connected reactor modules
200. End cap spacers 2120(a) to (c) can be welded to the interior of pipe spool 201,
thereby determining the position of end cap 212(a) relative to pipe spool 201, and
also determining the axial position of spacer tube 214 relative to pipe spool 201
(which is welded to end cap 212(a)).
[0121]    Referring to FIGS. 9 to 11, positioning of end cap 212(b) relative to pipe
spool 201 is determined by disposing of end cap 212(b) in contact engagement
with pipe spool 201, spacer tube 214 and by an adjacent piping structure, such as
welded end cap 212(a) of another reactor module 200, or a conduit. Each one of
spacer tube 214, and the adjacent piping structure are relatively rigid structures,
                                          31

such that the substantially fixed axial positioning of each one of spacer tube 214
and the adjacent piping structure, relative to pipe spool 201, determines the axial
positioning of end cap 212(b) relative to pipe spool 201. When reactor module 200
is assembled, end cap 212(b) is pressed between spacer tube 214 and the adjacent
piping structure (in the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 8, the adjacent piping
structure is end cap 212(b) of another reactor module 200), such that axial
positioning of end cap 212(b), relative to pipe spool 201 (and, therefore, end cap
212(a)) is determined by spacer tube 214 and the adjacent piping structure.
[0122]     End cap 212(b) also includes rigid end cap spacers 2124(a) to (c),
disposed within corresponding recesses within an end cap integrator 2126. The end
cap integrator includes recesses which receive spacer tube 214 and wire screen
208. End cap spacers 2124(a) to (c) are disposed in contact engagement with the
interior wall of pipe spool 201. End cap spacers 2124(a) to (c) project radially
outwardly from end cap integrator 2126. End cap spacers 2124(a) to (c) are spaced
apart from one another such that fluid can flow between reactor modules 200 that
are connected to one another, and, specifically between reaction zones of
connected reactor modules 200. When disposed in contact engagement with the
interior wall of pipe spool 201, and in co-operation with spacer tube 214 and the
adjacent piping structure, end cap spacers 2124(a) to (c) function to substantially
fix vertical positioning of end cap 212(b) relative to pipe spool 201.
[0123]     By configuring end cap 212(b) such that end cap 212(b) is removable
from end cap assembly 211, repairs and maintenance within the reaction zone
including the replacement of catalyst material 204, is made easier.
[0124]     Heaters 220 are disposed in heat transfer communication with fluid
passage 206 so as to effect heating of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
                                          32

material that is flowing through fluid passage 206. Maintaining the flowing
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material at a sufficient temperature leads to at
least partial depolymerization. In some embodiments, heaters 220 include electric
heating bands that are mounted to the external wall of pipe spool 201 and are
configured to supply heat to fluid passage 206 by heat transfer through pipe spool
201.
[0125]     Referring to FIGS. 16 to 18, in some embodiments, reactor includes inlet
reactor module 300, outlet reactor module 400, and, optionally, one or more
intermediate reactor modules 500.
[0126]     In some embodiments, inlet reactor module 300 includes pipe spool 301,
having opposite ends, with respective flange 330A, 330B provided at each one of
the opposite ends, for facilitating connection with an outlet reactor module 400,
and, in some embodiments, an intermediate reactor module 500.
[0127]     Inlet reactor module 300 includes inlet 302A at a first end of pipe spool
301, outlet 302B at the opposite second end of the spool, and fluid passage 306
extending between inlet 302A and outlet 302B. Fluid passage 306 includes catalyst
material-containing space 316 that is disposed within reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material-permeable container 303, with catalyst material 304 disposed
within catalyst material-containing space 316. Catalyst material-containing space
316 defines module reaction zone 305 of reactor module 300.
[0128]     Inlet reactor module 300 is configured for receiving reactor-disposed
molten polymeric material by inlet 302A, conducting the received molten
polymeric material through fluid passage 306, and while such conducting is being
effected, contacting the molten polymeric material being conducted with catalyst
material 304 such that at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of the
                                           33

molten polymeric material is effected and such that a molten product material is
produced that includes depolymerization reaction products (and, in some
embodiments, includes unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate
reaction products, or both), and discharging the molten product material from
outlet 302B.
[0129]     Fluid passage 306 includes relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion
318 and catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 that includes
catalyst material-containing space 316. Relatively unobstructed fluid passage
portion 318 extends form inlet 302A, and is disposed in fluid communication with
catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 via wire screen 308. Catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 315 extends into outlet 302B.
[0130]     Wire screen 308 is disposed within pipe spool 301, segmenting fluid
passage 306 into relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 318 and catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 316. Wire screen 308 is mounted at one
end to, and extends from, the first end of pipe spool 301 and, in some
embodiments, is mounted at an opposite end to spacer tube 314 (see below). Wire
screen 308 contains catalyst material 304 within catalyst material-containing space
316. Wire screen 308 is disposed in spaced apart relationship relative to fluid
passage-defining internal wall 310 of pipe spool 301, and extends longitudinally
through a portion of pipe spool 301. The space between wire screen 308 and
internal wall 310 defines a portion of catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 315 and extends longitudinally across a portion of pipe spool 301 to define
a portion of catalyst material-containing space 316. In this respect, the relatively
unobstructed fluid passage portion 318 extends longitudinally along, or proximate
to, an axis of pipe spool 301.
                                          34

[0131]     In some embodiments, wire screen 308 is cylindrical in shape, and is
nested within pipe spool 301. In this respect, in some embodiments, catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 315 is radially spaced outwardly, relative
to relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 318, from the axis of pipe spool
301.
[0132]     Fluid communication between relatively unobstructed fluid passage
portion 318 and catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 is effected
via spaces within the wire screen. In this respect, wire screen 308 is configured to
permit permeation of the molten polymeric material from relatively unobstructed
fluid passage portion 318 to catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315
(and thereby facilitate contact of the molten polymeric material with catalyst
material 304 within the reaction zone), while preventing, or substantially
preventing, egress of catalyst material 304 from catalyst material-containing space
316 to relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 318.
[0133]     In some embodiments, at a downstream end of relatively unobstructed
fluid passage portion 318, an end wall is tapered to encourage flow of the molten
polymeric material towards the catalyst-material containing space via wire screen
308, thereby mitigating pooling of the molten polymeric material.
[0134]     The catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 extends into
an annular space defined between spacer tube 314, that is mounted within pipe
spool 301, and internal wall 310 of pipe spool 301. By occupying this space, spacer
tube 314 encourages flow of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material within
catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 to the portions of pipe spool
301 that are in close disposition to a heat transfer element, and thereby maintaining
the reactor-disposed molten polymeric material at a desired temperature. Also, by
                                           35

occupying space, spacer tube 314 effectively reduces the volume of module
reaction zone 305, thereby increasing the velocity of the flowing reactor-disposed
molten polymeric material.
[0135]     Reactor-disposed molten polymeric material is received within relatively
unobstructed fluid passage portion 318 via inlet 302A at the first end of pipe spool
301, and conducted across wire screen 308 to catalyst material-containing space
316 of catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 315 (see directional
arrows 340). While being conducted through catalyst material-containing fluid
passage portion 315 (see directional arrows 342), the molten polymeric material
becomes contacted with catalyst material 304 such that depolymerization reaction
products are produced, and a molten product material, that includes
depolymerization reaction products that are produced within catalyst material
containing fluid passage portion 315 (and, in some embodiments, also includes
unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate reaction products, or both),
is then subsequently discharged via outlet 302B at the second opposite end of pipe
spool 301.
[0136]     In some embodiments, outlet reactor module 400 includes pipe spool
401, having opposite ends, with flanges provided at each one of the opposite ends,
for facilitating connection with an inlet reactor module 300, and, in some
embodiments, one an intermediate reactor module disposed between inlet and
outlet reactor modules 300, 400.
[0137]     The outlet reactor module 400 includes an inlet 402A at a first end of
pipe spool 401, an outlet 402B at the opposite second end of the spool, and fluid
passage 406 extending between inlet 402A and outlet 402B. Fluid passage 406
includes catalyst material-containing space 416 that is disposed within reactor
                                           36

disposed molten polymeric material-permeable container 403, with catalyst
material 404 disposed within catalyst material-containing space 416. Catalyst
material-containing space 416 defines module reaction zone 405 of reactor module
400.
[0138]      The outlet reactor module 400 is configured for receiving reactor
disposed molten polymeric material by inlet 402A, conducting the received molten
polymeric material through fluid passage 406, and while such conducting is being
effected, contacting the molten polymeric material being conducted with catalyst
material 404 such that at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of the
molten polymeric material is effected and such that a molten product material is
produced that includes depolymerization reaction products (and, in some
embodiments, also includes unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate
reaction products, or both), and discharging the molten product material from
outlet 402B.
[0139]      The fluid passage 406 includes catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 415, that includes catalyst material-containing space 416, and a relatively
unobstructed fluid passage portion 418. Catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 415 extends from inlet 402A, and is disposed in fluid communication with
the relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418 via wire screen 408. The
relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418 extends into outlet 402B.
[0140]      In some embodiments, spacer tube 414 is mounted within pipe spool 401
at a first end of pipe spool 401, such that the space (such as, for example, the
annulus) between pipe spool 401 and spacer tube 414 defines a portion of catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 415 that is extending from inlet 402A.
By occupying this space, spacer tube 414 encourages flow of the reactor-disposed
                                           37

molten polymeric material within the catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 415 to the portions of pipe spool 401 that are in close disposition to a heat
transfer element (see below), and thereby maintaining the reactor-disposed molten
polymeric material at a desired temperature. Also, by occupying space, spacer tube
414 effectively reduces the volume of module reaction zone 405, thereby
increasing the velocity of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric material.
[0141]     The catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 415 extends into
an annular space defined between internal wall 410 of pipe spool 401 and wire
screen 408. Wire screen 408 is disposed within pipe spool 401, segmenting fluid
passage 406 into catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 415 and the
relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418. Wire screen 408 is mounted at
one end to, and extends from, the second end of pipe spool 401 and is mounted at
an opposite end to spacer tube 414. Wire screen 408 contains catalyst material 404
within catalyst material-containing space 416. Wire screen 408 is disposed in
spaced apart relationship relative to fluid passage-defining internal wall 410 of
pipe spool 401, and extends longitudinally through a portion of pipe spool 401.
The space between wire screen 408 and internal wall 410 defines a portion of
catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 415. and extends longitudinally
across a portion of pipe spool 401. In this respect, the relatively unobstructed fluid
passage portion 418 extends longitudinally along, or proximate to, an axis of pipe
spool 401, and into outlet 402B.
[0142]     In some embodiments, wire screen 408 is cylindrical in shape, and is
nested within pipe spool 401. In this respect, in some embodiments, catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 415 is radially spaced outwardly, relative
to the relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418, from the axis of pipe spool
401.
                                           38

[0143]     Fluid communication between catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 415 and the relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418 is effected
via spaces within the wire screen. In this respect, wire screen 408 is configured to
permit permeation of the molten polymeric material from the relatively
unobstructed fluid passage portion 418 to catalyst material-containing fluid
passage portion 415 (and thereby facilitate the contacting of the molten polymeric
material with catalyst material 404 within the reaction zone), while preventing, or
substantially preventing, egress of catalyst material 404 from catalyst material
containing space 416 to the relatively unobstructed fluid passage portion 418.
[0144]     Reactor-disposed molten polymeric material is received within catalyst
material-containing fluid passage portion 415 via inlet 402A at the first end of pipe
spool 401 (such as, for example, from outlet 302B of reactor module 300, or such
as, for example, from the outlet of intermediate reactor module 500, see below),
conducted through catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 415 (see
directional arrows 440). While being conducted through catalyst material
containing fluid passage portion 415, the molten polymeric material becomes
contacted with catalyst material 404 such that a molten product material, that
includes depolymerization reaction products (and, in some embodiments, also
includes unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate reaction products,
or both), is produced. The molten product material, including the depolymerization
products that are produced within catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 415, are conducted across wire screen 408 to relatively unobstructed fluid
passage portion 418 (see directional arrows 442) and subsequently discharged via
outlet 402B at the second opposite end of pipe spool 401.
[0145]     In some embodiments, the reactor includes one or more intermediate
reactor modules 500 disposed between inlet and outlet reactor modules 300, 400.
                                          39

[0146]     In some embodiments, intermediate reactor module 500 includes pipe
spool 501, having opposite ends, with flanges 530A, 530B provided at each one of
the opposite ends, for facilitating connection with a reactor module. The flange at a
first end is provided for facilitating connection with either one of inlet reactor
module 300, or another intermediate reactor module 500. The flange at the second
end is provided for facilitating connect with either one of outlet reactor module 400
or another intermediate reactor module 500.
[0147]     Pipe spool 501 includes inlet 502A at a first end of pipe spool 501, outlet
502B at an opposite second end of pipe spool 501, and fluid passage 506 extending
between inlet 502A and outlet 502B. Fluid passage 506 includes catalyst material
containing space 516. Catalyst material-containing space 516 is disposed within
reactor-disposed molten polymeric material-permeable container 503, and catalyst
material 504 is disposed within catalyst material-containing space 516. Catalyst
material-containing space 516 defines module reaction zone 505 of reactor module
500.
[0148]     Intermediate reactor module 500 is configured for receiving reactor
disposed molten polymeric material by inlet 502A, conducting the received molten
polymeric material through fluid passage 506, and while such conducting is being
effected, contacting the molten polymeric material being conducted with catalyst
material 504 such that at least partial depolymerization of at least a fraction of the
molten polymeric material is effected and such that a molten product material is
produced that includes depolymerization reaction products (and, in some
embodiments, also includes unreacted molten polymeric material and intermediate
reaction products, or both), and discharging the molten product material from
outlet 502B.
                                           40

[0149]      Fluid passage 506 includes catalyst material-containing fluid passage
portion 515 that includes catalyst material-containing space 516.
[0150]      In some embodiments, spacer tube 514 is mounted within pipe spool 501
at a first end of pipe spool 501, such that the space between pipe spool 501 and
spacer tube 514 defines catalyst material-containing space 516. By occupying this
space, the spacer tube encourages flow of the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material within catalyst material-containing fluid passage portion 515 to the
portions of pipe spool 501 that are in close disposition to a heat transfer element
(see below), and thereby maintaining the reactor-disposed molten polymeric
material at a desired temperature. Also, by occupying space, spacer tube 514
effectively reduces the volume of module reaction zone 505, thereby increasing the
velocity of the flowing reactor-disposed molten polymeric material.
[0151]      FIG. 19 shows a cross-section side-elevation view of catalytic reactor
700a with removable static mixer 710 configured to be heated via thermal fluid
and/or molten salt. Static mixer 710 provides greater mixing in catalytic reactor
700a and can result in the need of a lower operating temperature. In some
embodiments, static mixer 710 is removable which allows for easier cleaning and
maintenance of reactor 700a. Removable static mixer 710 also allows for
repurposing of reactor segments. For example, jacketed reactors can be converted
to pre-heat or cooling segments.
[0152]      Thermal fluid and/or molten salt can be heated, among other ways, by
natural gas, electric, waste process heats, and coal. In some embodiments, thermal
fluid and/or molten salt reduces the costs of having to use electric.
[0153]      The tubular configuration of catalytic reactor 700a offers several
advantages in addition to those already mentioned above. In particular, use of
                                           41

tubular reactors connected in series allows for dependable and consistent
parameters, which allows for a consistent product. Specifically, a consistent flow
through the tubular sections creates a much more predictable and narrow range of
end products than using a continuous stirred reactor, as the surface area of the
catalyst and heat input is maximized. One advantage over continuous stirred
reactors is elimination or at least reduction of shortcutting, flow in tubular section
hypothetically moves as a plug. Each hypothetical plug spends the same amount of
time in the reactor. Tubular catalytic reactors can be operated vertically,
horizontally, or at any angle in between. Tubular catalytic reactors (the reactor
sections) and the corresponding pre-heat sections and cooling sections (see FIGS.
28-30) can be a universal size (or one of several standard sizes). This allows not
only for a consistent flow of the material, but also allows for tubular elements to be
designed to be interchangeable among the various section and easily added,
removed, cleaned, and repaired. In at least some embodiments the inner face of the
tubular sections is made of 304 or 316 steel.
[0154]      The thermal fluid and/or molten salt can enter jacket 720 via inlet/outlets
730. In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700a is configured to be mounted
with a thermocouple/pressure transducer (not shown) and includes relevant notches
735. Notches 735 are used to bring the thermocouple/pressure transducer in
physical contact with the fluid. In some embodiments, the thermocouple/pressure
transducer will be mounted in a well, which reduces the material in-between the
fluid and the sensor.
[0155]     In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700a includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. Removable screen 760 can be easily replaced
overcoming disadvantages associated with packed bed reactors challenging
maintenance requirements and resulting downtime. In some embodiments, the
                                           42

standardization of removable screen 760 results in a consistent product leaving
each section and/or allows for standardization across multiple reactors.
[0156]     In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor 700a can include
removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for static mixer supports. Static mixer
supports reduce the force on static mixers 710 allowing for more forceful/rapid
removal. The cut-outs of adaptor 740 improve the seal between the adapter and the
screens. Catalytic reactor 700a can include flanges 750 on one or both ends to
connect catalytic reactor 700a to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0157]     FIG. 20 is a cross-section side-elevation view of catalytic reactor 700b
with removable static mixer 710 configured to use electric heating. In some
embodiments, electric heating is preferred over using thermal oil/ molten salt as it
can be more convenient, requires reduced ancillary equipment such as boilers,
heating vessels, high temperature pumps, valves, and fittings, and is easier to
operate. Further, in some embodiments, reduce of electric heating reduces the
overall footprint of the system. In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700b is
configured to be mounted with a thermocouple/pressure transducer (not shown)
and includes relevant notches 735.
[0158]     In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700b includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor
700b can include removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for static mixer supports.
Catalytic reactor 700b can include flanges 750 on one or both ends to connect
catalytic reactor 700b to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0159]     FIG. 21 is a cross-section side-elevation view of catalytic reactor 700c
with removable annular insert 712 configured to be heated via thermal fluid and/or
molten salt. Annular insert 712 can create an annular flow which can lead to
                                           43

improved heat transfer, increases in superficial velocity and can be easier to
maintain than an empty reactor.
[0160]    The thermal fluid and/or molten salt can enter jacket 720 via inlet/outlets
730. In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700c is configured to be mounted
with a thermocouple/pressure transducer (not shown) and includes relevant notches
735.
[0161]    In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700c includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor
700c can include removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for removable annular and
screen support. Catalytic reactor 700c can include flanges 750 on one or both ends
to connect catalytic reactor 700c to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0162]    FIG. 22 is a cross-section side-elevation view of catalytic reactor 700d
with removable annular 712 insert configured to use electric heating. In some
embodiments, catalytic reactor 700d is configured to be mounted with a
thermocouple/pressure transducer (not shown) and includes relevant notches 735.
[0163]    In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700d includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor
700d can include removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for removable annular and
screen support. Catalytic reactor 700d can include flanges 750 on one or both ends
to connect catalytic reactor 700d to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0164]    FIG. 23 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a catalytic reactor 700e
with empty internals configured to be heated via thermal fluid and/or molten salt.
Having a reactor with empty internals can increases the residence time of a given
material spends in reactor 700e which reduces the number of reactors needed to
                                          44

make a specific product along with the volume of the catalyst that can be used.
Reactors with empty internals can also be more economic to manufacture when
compared to reactors with static mixers. The thermal fluid and/or molten salt can
enter jacket 720 via inlet/outlets 730. In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700e
is configured to be mounted with a thermocouple/pressure transducer (not shown)
and includes relevant notches 735.
[0165]     In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700e includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor
700e can include removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for removable screen
support. Catalytic reactor 700e can include flanges 750 on one or both ends to
connect catalytic reactor 700e to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0166]     FIG. 24 is a cross-section side-elevation view of catalytic 700f reactor
with empty internals configured to use electric heating. In some embodiments,
catalytic reactor 700f is configured to be mounted with a thermocouple/pressure
transducer (not shown) and includes relevant notches 735.
[0167]     In some embodiments, catalytic reactor 700f includes removable screen
760 that can hold the catalyst. In other or the same embodiments, catalytic reactor
700f can include removable adaptor 740 with cut-outs for screen support. Catalytic
reactor 700f can include flanges 750 on one or both ends to connect catalytic
reactor 700f to other reactors, extruders or the like.
[0168]     FIG. 25 is a cross-section front-elevation view of a group of catalytic
reactors 700 like the one shown in FIG. 19 arranged in parallel. Parallel
arrangements such as that shown in FIG. 25 allow for the total rate of production to
be more readily increase/decreased as desired with minimal changes to the overall
                                           45

arrangement and allow multiple different levels of depolymerisation to occur at
once.
[0169]     Housing 800 allows catalytic reactors 700 to be bathed in thermal oil/
molten salt which is often more effective than electric. The thermal oil/molten salt
is held in chamber 780. In some embodiments flange 770 allows for multiple
housings to be joined together.
[0170]     FIG. 26 is a cross-section side-elevation view of the parallel catalytic
reactor arrangement of FIG. 25 show in a horizontal configuration. Parallel
arrangement allows for higher flowrate units to be built with smaller pressure
drops that could cause issues as compared to a single tube arrangements.
Horizontal configurations are often more convenient to operate/maintain.
[0171]     FIG. 27 is a cross-section side-elevation view of the parallel catalytic
reactor arrangement of FIG. 25 show in a vertical configuration. Vertical
configurations can reduce stratification of liquid/gas products, and can eliminate or
at least reduce a need for static mixers.
[0172]     FIG. 28 is a cross-section side-elevation view of vertical helical internal
catalytic reactor arrangement 900A with two reactors 700a like the one shown in
FIG. 19 connected in series. Horizontal helical mixer pre-heat section 820 is
connected to one reactor 700a. Helical mixers can lead to better mixing by
avoiding stagnancies and hot spots.
[0173]      Helical mixer cooling segment 830 is shown connected to the other
reactor 700a at a 45-degree decline. The decline allows for the product to flow via
a gravity, while the 45-degree angle allows for sufficient contact between the
cooling medium and the product.
                                           46

[0174]     In the embodiments shown, vertical helical internal catalytic reactor
arrangement 900A has several inlet/outlets to allow for the use of thermal fluid/
molten salt mixtures however other warming techniques (such as, but not limited
to, electric heating) can be used as well.
[0175]     FIG. 29 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a vertical annular
catalytic reactor arrangement 900B with two reactors 700c like the one shown in
FIG. 21 connected in series.
[0176]     FIG. 30 is a cross-section side-elevation view of a vertical catalytic
reactor arrangement 900C with two empty reactors 700f like the one shown in FIG.
23 connected in series.
[0177]     FIG. 31 is a perspective view of horizontal reactor configuration 910 with
internal helical reactor 700b configured to use electric heaters 870 like the one
shown in FIG. 20. In FIG. 31 the reactor shell has been removed from part of
horizontal reactor configuration 910 to aid in visualizing the location of internal
helical reactor 700b.
[0178]     While particular elements, embodiments and applications of the present
invention have been shown and described, it will be understood, that the invention
is not limited thereto since modifications can be made without departing from the
scope of the present disclosure, particularly in light of the foregoing teachings. For
example, the numerous embodiments demonstrate that different combinations of
components are possible within the scope of the claimed invention, and these
described embodiments are demonstrative and other combinations of the same or
similar components can be employed to achieve substantially the same result in
substantially the same way. Further, all of the claims are hereby incorporated by
reference into the description of the preferred embodiments.
                                           47

What is claimed is:
1.     A system for continuously treating recycled polymeric material comprising:
                   (a)    a hopper configured to continuously feed said recycled
             polymeric material into said system;
                   (b)    an extruder system configured to continuously turn said
             recycled polymeric material in a molten material;
                   (c)    a filter system configured to continuously filter said
             molten material;
                   (d)    a first reactor configured to continuously depolymerize
             said molten material into a depolymerized molten material;
                   (e)    a heat exchanger configured to continuously cool said
             depolymerized molten material; and
                   (f)    a purifier system configured to continuously purify said
             molten material.
2.     The system of claim 1 wherein said filter system includes a filter bed.
3.     The system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said solid polymeric material is a
recycled plastic.
4.     The system of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said first reactor employs a
catalyst.
5.     The system of any one of claims 1 to 4 further comprising:
                   (g)    a second rector configured to depolymerize said molten
             material into a depolymerized molten material.
                                           48

6.     The system of claim 5 wherein said reactors are connected in series.
7.     The system of claim 6 wherein said reactors are stacked vertically.
8.     The system of claim 6 wherein said reactors are stacked horizontally.
9.     The system of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein said first reactor includes a
static mixer.
10.    The system of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein said purifier system includes
one of flash separation, absorbent beds, clay polishing or film evaporators.
11.    The system of claim 5 further comprising:
                    (h)    a separate heater configured to aid said extruder system.
12.    The system of claim 5 wherein said second reactor employs a catalyst
material.
13.    The system of claim 4 wherein said catalyst is contained in a permeable
container.
14.    The system of claim 4 wherein said first reactor contains a spacer tube.
15.    The system of claim 4 wherein said first reactor contains a static mixer.
16.    The system of claim 4 wherein said first reactor contains an annular insert.
                                          49

17.     The system of claim 3 configured to employ at least one of a gas or oil
created by said purifier system as fuel for said system.
18.     The system of claim 4 wherein said catalyst is [Fe-Cu-Mo-P]/A 20 3.
19.     The system of claim 11 wherein said extruder system employs thermal
fluids.
20.     The system of claim 11 wherein said extruder system employs electric
heaters.
                       GreenMantra Recycling Technologies LTD.
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                            50

<removed-date>
                                1/20
                                  Material
                       1 <U+FFFD>
                             / Selection Stage
              10
                                       l
<removed-apn>
                   <U+FFFD>
                                    Heat
                       2<U+FFFD>
                                       l
                               Pre-Filtration
                       3<U+FFFD>         Stage
                                       1
                                 Pre-Heat
                       4<U+FFFD>         Stage
                                       !
                                 Reaction
                                  Stage
                                       l
                       5<U+FFFD>
                                  Cooling
                       6<U+FFFD>
                                   Stage
                          Purification
                       7<U+FFFD>
                            Stage
                                       l
                                 Finished
                       8<U+FFFD>          Wax
                                 FIG. 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>                                                     <removed-date>
                                                                                                            1000
          111
                                                                       117
                                                                                                                   l                                                                                            114
                                                                 /"'llr-                                                                                                                                       \                                                         112
                                             rwmM_,__:::<U+FFFD>-- t<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>--r- _.,,. .,,,_____ _, .,. ...                               M,,.w,      ,.,m,fU(r---..'"'""'t"M                                              <U+FFFD>--"  -<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>- 1- - --  -"-'
                                                               \, / q1                                                                                                                   ,w,ws.m7y,________._"<
                                                                                     <U+FFFD><f'J. ;                                                                                           .;,n<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD>,.<U+FFFD>'.-',.<U+FFFD>-               .            ..-
r
                           . .
                       " '> ,,n-\,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>1/                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s
                                                                    .....                                                                                                                                                                                                      I\.)
                       l.chA,,
                          I ,, 1f                                      116                       i
                                                                                                 
                                           {                  I                                v, ' 1' n"-                                                                                                                                                                     I\.)
    109                                                                                          i
                                                                                               /. ,. ,.,
                               ,,....., ,.:: 107
                      -----,,:.__ '
                            I<
                              "J,,/         ,,,..,.,._
                                            1 i. (
                                                              \\,.,     I
                                                                        t '
                                                                              ,, <U+FFFD>--'
                                                                            ,-'
                                                                                   ,"n ,<U+FFFD>b
                                                                              \(""'._.,...,f'-
                                                                                                 <U+FFFD>
                                                                                                 f
                                                                                                                 107                                                                                                                                                     119   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
 .,,., f<f'1'"'f<                        "',,,  .
                                                            / i
)'lo..,, .t,n(11o:<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>n.-
,.,.;,..,...;..,c ...         ,                . _..,,,/       \                f   \.,<U+FFFD>,_,.,                          I       ')<U+FFFD>  "l'l  (  ._,...,                    <U+FFFD>                 ,                       ;r,}       f                      ,            <U+FFFD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                        ".I':
                                           (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1::<U+FFFD>f'<U+FFFD>::l;;.;;,
                                                                                                                  109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i!
                                u..
                                      t \ ,,,<U+FFFD>::::,
                                                                  <U+FFFD>v. ,........<U+FFFD>...                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                Lf.;-:;_[ l (>:'"'"-:,\
                                                                                                                         l
                                <U+FFFD>.,,.....<U+FFFD>.<U+FFFD>)                                                                                                ,, <U+FFFD> :1 l._li\: "'\// ._/ l'._<U+FFFD>ikl ,i"/ l1i /,.l1' -l /), "\/<U+FFFD>// / t,-;so;,SJ')
      r ..) b, f"                        ' :-.),,,,,,,.<U+FFFD>....w-....  ../ r-..,<U+FFFD>J<U+FFFD>r       l "" w,s;;,
                                                                                                                      : l,,.,,,,,,,<U+FFFD>f-<U+FFFD>., ;,..,,... ,..?"l"' 1>--r--,--<U+FFFD>------,--:,---<U+FFFD>----" :;,<U+FFFD>-wr1<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>, .,,<U+FFFD><U+FFFD>1----i' <U+FFFD>....._
                                                                                                                                             j 1' I  ,, ' f ; ,, l I "' $ //"I lf " I , 1 t. /; ,,, I :<U+FFFD>                                                           ,<U+FFFD> 118
\,1  .., ./":,{';,. <U+FFFD>-l
                                                                                                           <U+FFFD>i1..,.,-,1' l
                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
  1                                                          115
                                        105                                            '               ,\<U+FFFD>;i<U+FFFD>t ' , _, ,<U+FFFD>. <U+FFFD> ,, <U+FFFD>:                      1''"l'lli;:J'S'r
                                                                                                                                                      t,;                <, i: , ,(j_'{f;l' '" <U+FFFD>lJ'!H <U+FFFD> t, 'f<U+FFFD>L"H'\ ,;;;, ,.:rH '
                                                                                                                                                                 jl l(<U+FFFD> tit( i! :,,                <U+FFFD>siv         if '.8<U+FFFD> <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>:- 1! :sx li;:rn / )')'.
                                                                      110
                                                                                            ,,.) /.L\
                                                                                                       1.      ,
                                                                                                                                          104(a)
                                                                                        113
                                                                                                    S'<U+FFFD>-./           108
                                                                                                                                                                      102{a)                                                             102(d)               102(e)
                                                                                         FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                                                3/20
                                                            100
<removed-apn>
              rn: :::::::
                              102(a)            102(b)            102(c)            102(d)
                                                  FIG. 3
                            102(a)     102(b)      102(c)         102(d)   102(e)        102(f)
                                                  FIG. 4

<removed-date>
                                                              4/20
                                :<U+FFFD>,., .<U+FFFD>....w,.,.,.,l
                                                    ...<U+FFFD> 
                                                   <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>-
<removed-apn>
                            <U+FFFD>1, <U+FFFD> ;<U+FFFD> >-
                                   '1.\         .      .
                                                                             0
                                                                             0
                                                                             <U+FFFD>
                              kt><U+FFFD>ii,M<U+FFFD> ::---:::::
                    0       I                    )\::             /
                    g-<:
                             1 (ao::<U+FFFD> 1 <U+FFFD>-- - -<JD<U+FFFD>,
                            \ .--, lllf""\<U+FFFD>)          \
                                                 ... :<U+FFFD>\--,:<U+FFFD>>'=-
                                                                             0
                   r;""1 <U+FFFD>  '<U+FFFD>f
                                 1                                           0
                              \      ;,n                /_.,..               M
                                     '"-,_ I!,t H                        l
                                                                         /
                                                     n           ...--
                                  <U+FFFD> <<U+FFFD>\''))....L.L<U+FFFD>..       <U+FFFD> 
                                                       <U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>:i                      
               ---<U+FFFD>-/
                       t+
                                                 rt i                            -
                                                                                 C)
              {O
                         l :<U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>\: : t<t                                          I&.
                        <U+FFFD> r vr, . t
                            :         - -----<U+FFFD>---l                           0
                     <U+FFFD>- ""_:  \::l--- -{0                                   0
                                     (f}{t>
                                         -.-."-.-tJ
                                                 ;i___L:
                                                                             0
                                                                             N
                                                                  -<U+FFFD>
                                                 <U+FFFD> .. <U+FFFD>
                                             ii;.. ; l
                                     lr}1 <U+FFFD> r
                                             ,       "'\
                                                             ----- 8
                                         . l
                                             i.
                                 (1 } --

<removed-date>
                                                 5/20
<removed-apn>
                              208
              202A
               2120(a)
                                                                    214
                           -,- - - 1 - - - cy 7. .i). ./.",_.
                                                                    205   206
                                                             216
                      <U+FFFD>         <U+FFFD>z        rt
                                           ,r'
                 2120(c)
                                    218   ( \
                              222                   223
                                          220
                207                                                201
                              FIG. 6

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            200
FIG. 7
                                   6/20
         203

<removed-date>
                                                7/20
                           s
                                                       230
                               200                                                 200
                                                         2124(a)
                                                                   212(b)
<removed-apn>
                                     2120(a)
                                         <U+FFFD>
                                                                               s
                                                                               208
                   - <U+FFFD>:4 --s
                                       <U+FFFD>
                                212(a)                                   216
                                     2120(c)
                                                               2124(c)
                                                             207
                                       FIG. 8

<removed-date>
                                                                      8/20
                                                                         [?<U+FFFD>--/i .
                                                                                        2124(a )
                                                                 ,.,.,..,                  .
                                                        -",,,..,,.
                           212(b)                       /
<removed-apn>
                                                /., 
                             <U+FFFD>                  I                                           <U+FFFD>2126
                                            I
                                                                                                \)
                                           /
                                           {
                                           \                                                    I
                                           \                                             124(c)
                                                                                                I
                                                                                        <U+FFFD>
                                      /.
                           2124(b)     .        <U+FFFD>',,_---__......,.
                                                /                                   /<U+FFFD>/)
                                                                                ,,,..
                                                                                      .,       <U+FFFD>-/
                                                                     FIG. 9
                                                                              211
                                                            208
                 2124(a)
              212(b)
                                                                                        1
                <U+FFFD>                    ,,.,.;.....----------r-1 <U+FFFD>---
                 2126
                2124(c)
                                                            FIG. 10

<removed-date>
                                              9/20
                                2124(a)
<removed-apn>
                2124(b)
                                           FIG. 11
                                                I        <U+FFFD>
                                                          212(a)
                                                                   2122
                                                          l
                                                          l
                                                           I
                                                           I
                                                /<     /
                                                         <U+FFFD>20(c)
                          '/
                                              -<U+FFFD> '"-"/
                                                  ..
                     /,'
              2120(b)<U+FFFD>                               /         /
                                          FIG. 12

<removed-date>
                          10/20
                      2120(a)
<removed-apn>
                     FIG. 13
              22
               214
                     FIG. 14

<removed-date>
                  11/20
                          303
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 15
                                406
              FIG. 16

<removed-date>
                                12/20
                                                   430B
<removed-apn>
                           FIG. 17
                                503          500
              _____A__--\--C__
                                         )
              (                                       \
                    530A                                  530B
                                                                 506
                           5
                  501                    515
                        580
                               FIG. 18

<removed-date>
                        13/20
                          700a
<removed-apn>
                                   760
                                         740
                        FIG. 19
                          700b
              1   750
                                          740
                        FIG. 20
                         FIG. 21

<removed-date>
                            14/20
                             700d
<removed-apn>
                                             760
                     712   FIG. 22   735
               750                                  740
                              700e
                                              730
                              700f
                                       760
              750          FIG. 24     735            740

<removed-date>
                                           15/20
<removed-apn>
                                                           770
                   800
                         700
                               780
                                       FIG. 25
                                     710           760
              80
                                       FIG. 26
                               780                   770

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          800
                780
FIG. 27
                                      16/20

<removed-date>
                             17/20
<removed-apn>
                    900A
                                      700a
                                       700a
                      820
              730
                            FIG. 28

<removed-date>
                              18/20
                    900B
<removed-apn>
                                                                                    830
                                              730
                                 !,: ..11          .    ""Jr"
                                 Hl
                                  .,  1,
                                                    700c
                                                            <U+FFFD>,      ,.::__"r . "'     730
                           730,<U+FFFD>"'  "
                                   t
                                                          700c
                     820
              730
                             FIG. 29

<removed-date>
                     19/20
                             rr:
                             .<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>-{-
<removed-apn>
              900C
                                                              830
                                                    <U+FFFD>c<U+FFFD>
                                              :,,: l\,{ ,,
                                               .t":}>
                                                       '\r
                                       700e
                                       700e
                      FIG. 30

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       750
                             910
FIG. 31
                                   20/20

