                                        ABSTRACT
        The present disclosure relates to methods and devices for controlling arthropods,
including insects and arachnids in an environment. The methods generally comprise:
generating a near-ideal gas Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) that is substantially
non-hydrated (e.g., in the form of water in solution or water in solution or water molecules
bonded by covalence, van der Waals forces, or London forces) and substantially free of,
e.g., ozone, plasma species, and/or organic species; and directing the gas comprising
primarily PHPG into the environment such that the PHPG acts to control arachnids in the
environment. In certain aspects, the arachnids may be totally or partially killed.

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                         AUSTRALIA
                                       Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                         ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        SYNEXIS LLC
Actual Inventor(s):       LEE, James D.
                          BOSMA, Douglas J.
Address for Service:      Houlihan2, Level      1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:          METHODS FOR THE CONTROL OF ARTHROPODS USING
                          NEAR-IDEAL GAS PHASE HYDROGEN PEROXIDE
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

    METHODS FOR THE CONTROL OF ARTHROPODS USING NEAR-IDEAL GAS PHASE
                                       HYDROGEN PEROXIDE
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]    The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2014265149. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No.
   2014265149 and its corresponding International Patent Application No. PCT/US2014/038652,
   are incorporated herein by reference. This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional
   Application No. 61/824,689 filed May 17, 2013, which is herein incorporated by reference in
10 its entirety.
   FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
   [0002]    The present disclosure relates generally to methods for the control of arthropods,
   including insects and arachnids. In certain aspects, photocatalytic processes may be utilized to
15 form near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide for use in the methods described herein.
   BACKGROUND
   [0003]    As described herein, in certain aspects of the disclosure, hydrogen peroxide may be
   produced as a near-ideal gas phase, purified hydrogen peroxide gas (PHPG). In this form
20 hydrogen peroxide behaves, in all respects, as a near-ideal gas and is not hydrated, or otherwise
   combined with water when produced.
   [0004] The fundamental nature of a photocatalytic process is to create active intermediates in a
   chemical reaction by absorption of light. This occurs when a photon of the appropriate
25 wavelength strikes the photocatalyst. The energy of the photon is imparted to a valence band
   electron, promoting the electron to the conduction band, thus leaving a "hole" in the valence
   band. In the absence of an adsorbed chemical species, the promoted electron will decay and
   recombine with the valence band hole. Recombination is prevented when the valence band hole
   captures an electron from an oxidizable species-- preferentially molecular water-      adsorbed to
30 an active surface site on the photocatalyst. Concurrently, a reducible species adsorbed on the
   catalyst surface-  preferentially molecular oxygen-     may capture a conduction band electron.
   [0005]    Upon initiation of the photocatalytic process, or at the entrance point of a
   photocatalytic plasma reactor, the following reactions occur.
35                                              Oxidation
                                 2photons + 2H 20 --* 20H* + 2H+ + 2e-

                                               20H* -> H 2 0 2
                                                 Reduction
                                         0 2 + 2H + 2e-   -> H20 2
  5 [0006]    Once hydrogen peroxide has been produced, however, the photocatalyst
    preferentially reduces hydrogen peroxide (reduction potential 0.71 eV) instead of molecular
    oxygen (reduction potential -0.13 eV), and the reaction shifts to the following equilibrium
    which takes place within the majority of the plasma reactor volume.
                                                  Oxidation
 .0                              2photons + 2H 2 0   -> 20H* + 2H + 2e
                                               20H* -> H 2 0 2
                                                 Reduction
                                       H 2 0 2 + 2H+ + 2e- -> 2H 20
    [0007]    In the context of the present disclosure, near-ideal gas Purified Hydrogen Peroxide
 .5 Gas (PHPG) may be produced using a photocatalytic process with a purpose-designed
    morphology that enables the removal of near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide from the
    PHPG reactor before it is forced to undergo subsequent reduction by the photocatalyst.
    Denied ready availability of adsorbed hydrogen peroxide gas, the photocatalyst is then forced
    to preferentially reduce oxygen, rather than hydrogen peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide gas may
  o then generally be produced simultaneously by both the oxidation of water and the reduction
    of dioxygen in the photocatalytic process. Without intending to be limited, in operation the
    amount of hydrogen peroxide produced may be doubled, then removed from the system
    before the vast majority of it can be reduced - thereby resulting in an output of near-ideal gas
    PHPG that is thousands of times greater than the incidental output of unpurified hydrogen
25  peroxide from an equal number of active catalyst sites within a photocatalytic plasma reactor
    under the same conditions. This purpose-designed morphology also enables the production
    of near-ideal gas PHPG at absolute humidities well below those at which a photocatalytic
    plasma reactor can effectively operate. For example, near-ideal gas PHPG outputs greater
    than 5.0 ppm have been achieved at an absolute humidity of 2.5 milligrams per Liter. In the
30  purpose-designed morphology the dominant reactions become:
                                                  Oxidation
                                 2photons + 2H 2 0   -> 20H* + 2H + 2e-

                                               20H* -> H 2 0 2
                                                 Reduction
                                          0 2 + 2H + 2e- -> H2 0 2
    [0008]     However, without being limited by theory, it should be noted that methods and
  5 devices of the present disclosure are not achieved as a result of the photocatalytic process, but
    by the effects of near-ideal gas PHPG once it is released into the environment.
    [0009]     Using morphology that permits immediate removal of hydrogen peroxide gas before
    it can be reduced, near-ideal gas PHPG may be generated in any suitable manner known in
    the art, including but not limited to, any suitable process known in the art that simultaneously
 .0 oxidizes water in gas form and reduces oxygen gas, including gas phase photo-catalysis, e.g.,
    using a metal catalyst such as titanium dioxide, zirconium oxide, titanium dioxide doped with
    cocatalysts (such as copper, rhodium, silver, platinum, gold, etc.), or other suitable metal
    oxide photocatalysts. Near-ideal gas PHPG may also be produced by electrolytic processes
    using anodes and cathodes made from any suitable metal, or constructed from metal oxide
 .5 ceramics using morphology that permits immediate removal of hydrogen peroxide gas before
    it can be reduced. Alternatively, near-ideal gas PHPG may be produced by high frequency
    excitation of gaseous water and oxygen molecules on a suitable supporting substrate using
    morphology that permits immediate removal of hydrogen peroxide gas before it can be
    reduced.
 10 [0010]     As a near-ideal gas, hydrogen peroxide is not appreciably lighter than or heavier
    than air, having a molar mass of 34.0148 grams per mole. Near-ideal gas phase hydrogen
    peroxide diffuses through air as any other near-ideal gas would, and passes through air
    permeable materials, unhindered by the surface tension of water as is seen in the behavior of
    micro-droplets comprising aqueous phase vapor forms of hydrogen peroxide often referred to
25  as gaseous.
    [0011]     In this form, near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide can penetrate to any space that
    can be reached by air itself. This includes all areas in which arachnids and insects are present
    in a room, such as crevices between materials, inside air-permeable cushions and in air
    permeable bedding.

    [0012]     Continuously produced via a PHPG diffuser device, as discussed herein, an
    equilibrium concentration above 0.04 parts per million of near-ideal gas phase hydrogen
    peroxide may be achieved and maintained continuously in an environment. At equilibrium at
    one atmosphere pressure and 19.51 degrees Celsius, near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide
  5 will be present in every cubic micron of air at an average amount of one molecule per cubic
    micron for each 0.04 parts per million of concentration. At one part per million, the average
    number of hydrogen peroxide molecules per cubic micron will be 25, and at 3.2 parts per
    million it will be 80.
    [0013]    Not to be limited by theory, near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide will be
 .0 "inhaled" or processed by arthropods including but not limited to arachnids and insects along
    with air, causing damage to sensitive tissues and either killing the arthropod or resulting in
    changes in behavior. In the case of arachnids, near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide passes
    through tracheal tubes and body apertures to reach sensitive tissues and the book lungs of
    arachnids. The result of continuous exposure to near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide at
 .5 even low concentrations is damage to the tissues used in air exchange, and the death of the
    arachnid. Most arthropods, including insects do not have lungs, but survive solely by
    distributing oxygen through the body by means of a network of tracheal tubes. By this means
    near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide reaches every portion of an arthropod's body and
    causes death to the arthropod, such as an insect. Not to be limited by theory the near-ideal
 .0 gas phase hydrogen peroxide damages their air exchange tissues.
    [0014]    By contrast, humans and other vertebrates have respiratory mechanisms that protect
    them from equivalent concentrations of near-ideal gas phase hydrogen peroxide. Human
    lungs produce hydrogen peroxide at high rates and a cubic micron of human lung secretion
    contains an equilibrium concentration of between 600 molecules, and 60,000 molecules of
25  hydrogen peroxide in aqueous phase, along with enzymes that consume hydrogen peroxide
    and regulate its concentration. Enzymes such as lactoperoxidase and catalase which perform
    this function are known to have enzymatic velocities of thousands of molecular reactions per
    second.
    [0015]    In one aspect of the present disclosure, a method of controlling an arthropods, such
30  as insects or arachnids, in an environment is disclosed. In certain aspects, the arthropods are
    part of a population or a plurality of populations. In certain aspects, an arthropod, insect, or
    arachnid population is totally or partially killed. The method generally comprises

    (a) generating a near-ideal gas comprised of Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) that is
    substantially free of, e.g., hydration (i.e., non-hydrated, in the form of water in solution or
    water molecules bonded by covalence, van der Waals forces, or London forces), ozone,
    plasma species, and/or organic species; and (b) directing the gas comprised of PHPG into the
  5 environment such that the PHPG controls arthropod, insect, or arachnid populations in the
    environment.
    [0016]    As used herein, the term "Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas" or PHPG generally
    means a gas form of hydrogen peroxide that is substantially free of at least hydration (in the
    form of water in solution or water molecules bonded by covalence, van der Waals forces, or
 .0 London forces) and substantially free of ozone.
    [0017]    In accordance with the present disclosure, the terms "substantial absence of ozone"
    "substantially free of ozone", etc., generally mean amounts of ozone below about 0.0 15 ppm,
    down to levels below the LOD (level of detection) for ozone. Such levels are below the
    generally accepted limits for human health. In this regard, the Food and Drug Administration
 .5 (FDA) requires ozone output of indoor medical devices to be no more than 0.05 ppm of
    ozone. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires that workers not
    be exposed to an average concentration of more than 0.10 ppm of ozone for 8 hours. The
    National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) recommends an upper limit of
    0.10 ppm of ozone, not to be exceeded at any time. Environmental Protection Agency's
  0 (EPA's) National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone is a maximum 8 hour average
    outdoor concentration of 0.08 ppm. The diffuser devices described herein have consistently
    demonstrated that they do not produce ozone at levels detectable by means of a Draeger
    Tube.
    [0018]    In certain aspects, the method comprises (a) exposing a metal, or metal oxide,
25  catalyst to ultraviolet light in the presence of humid purified ambient air under conditions so
    as to form near-ideal gas Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) that is substantially free of
    at least one of hydration (in the form of water in solution or water molecules bonded by
    covalence, van der Waals forces, or London forces), ozone, plasma species, and organic
    species; and (b) directing the PHPG into the environment such that the PHPG controls
30  arthropods in the environment.

    [0019]    In one aspect, the ultraviolet light produces at least one wavelength in a range above
    about 181 nm, above about 185 nm, above about 187 nm, between about 182 nm and about
    254 nm, between about 187 nm and about 250 nm, between about 188 nm and about 249 nm,
    between about 255 nm and about 380 nm, etc. In certain aspects, wavelengths between about
  5 255 nm and 380 nm may be preferred to improve yields of PHPG.
    [0020]    In certain aspects, the amount of PHPG may vary from about 0.005 ppm to about
    5.0 ppm, more particularly, from about 0.02 ppm to about 1.5 ppm, in the environment. In
    certain aspects, the amount of PHPG may vary from about 0.5 ppm to about 1.5 ppm. PHPG
    levels of 1.5 ppm using a feed of untreated air containing absolute humidity as low as 3.5
 .0 mg/L can consistently be achieved. More particularly, PHPG levels from about 0.09 ppm to
    about 5.0 ppm using humid re-circulated air, can be produced in the environment to be
    treated. Also provided for an included are methods of treating arthropod population
    comprising providing PHPG gas at between 0.4 to 1.0 ppm. In another aspect, PHPG may be
    provided at between 0.5 to 1.5 ppm for the control of arthropods. In certain embodiments,
 .5 the level of PHPG is maintained at 1.0 ppm or less.
    [0021]    In certain aspects of the present disclosure, the humidity of the ambient air is
    preferably above about 1% relative humidity (RH), above about 5% RH, above about 10%
    RH, etc. In certain aspects, the humidity of the ambient air may be between about 10% and
    about 99% RH. In one aspect, the method of the present disclosure includes regulating the
  0 humidity of the ambient air within the range of about 50% to about 99% RH, or about 10 to
    about 99% RH.
    [0022]    A suitable diffuser device may be used to generate the near-ideal gas PHPG, such as
    those disclosed in WO/2009/021108 or WO/2010/093796, the contents of which are herein
    incorporated by reference in their entireties. The diffuser design may optimize near-ideal gas
25  PHPG production by spreading the air permeable photocatalytic PHPG reactor surface thinly
    over a large area that is perpendicular to air flow (e.g., in certain aspects, over a sail-like
    area), rather than by compacting it into a volume-optimizing morphology designed to
    maximize residence time within the plasma reactor.
    [0023]    For example, by configuring the PHPG reactor morphology as a thin, sail-like air
30  permeable structure, just inside the diffuser's interior shell, the exit path length for hydrogen
    peroxide molecules produced on the catalyst becomes diminishingly short, and their

    residence time within the PHPG reactor structure is reduced to a fraction of a second,
    preventing the vast majority of hydrogen peroxide molecules from being subsequently
    adsorbed onto the catalyst and reduced back into water. Also, by placing the catalyst
    substrate just inside the interior surface of the diffuser shell, not only is PHPG reactor surface
  5 area maximized, but the near-ideal gas PHPG produced also passes out of the diffuser almost
    immediately and thus avoids photolysis from prolonged exposure to the UV light source. By
    means of this morphology, near-ideal gas PHPG output concentrations as high as 0.40 ppm
    may be achieved.
    [0024]     Generally, the present disclosure has been described in specific aspects with some
 .0 degree of particularity, it is to be understood that this description has been given only by way
    of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction, fabrication and use,
    including the combination and arrangement of parts, may be made without departing from the
    spirit and scope of the present disclosure as shown in the following example aspects.
    [0025]     In previous disclosures, obstacles in the field to produce highly concentrated non
 .5 hydrated Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas, are overcome and the production of PHPG has
    many applications in domestic, industrial, and agricultural arenas. While conducting studies
    on the performance and PHPG output of a PHPG producing apparatus and its activity on
    molds, bacteria and viruses, the surprising and unexpected observation that near-ideal gas
    phase hydrogen peroxide can be used to kill, partially kill, or modify the behavior of most
  0 species of arthropods including insects and arachnids, among others. Without being limited
    by a particular theory, the surprising effects of PHPG gas on the behavior of many species of
    insects and arachnids may be due at least in part because many species of arthropods appear
    to have limited or no natural protection against hydrogen peroxide gas.
    [0026]     Surprisingly, the inventors also discovered that non-hydrated hydrogen peroxide gas
25  acts as a repellant against arthropods including arachnids, flying insects, and crawling insects,
    causing them to flee an area protected by the hydrogen peroxide gas and preventing them
    from entering the area. Further, the inventors found that hydrogen peroxide gas causes many
    species of arthropods that are unable to flee a PHPG enriched area to become inactive and die
    over a period of time ranging from hours to days. The inventors also observed that hydrogen
30  peroxide gas can interrupt the life cycle of many species of arthropods, even causing pupae,
    larvae, and nits to die. Based on these findings, the application of PHPG gas to arthropod
                                                      Q

    control has a wide range of beneficial uses in the domestic, industrial and agricultural
    industries.
    [0027]    In addition to the broad effectiveness of PHPG for the control of arthropods, PHPG,
    used at concentrations below a few parts per million, acts as a "green" pesticide which breaks
  5 down into water and oxygen in the environment, leaving no toxic residue, and is not harmful
    to humans, pets, or plants.
    SUMMARY
    [0028]    The present disclosure provides for, and includes, a method for controlling an
    arthropod in an environment comprising providing Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG)
 .0 to an environment to prepare a PHPG containing environment having PHPG gas at a final
    concentration of at least 0.05 parts per million and maintaining the PHPG containing
    environment for a time period sufficient to control an arthropod.
    [0029]    The present disclosure further provides for, and includes, a method of treating an
    animal for an arthropod parasite comprising placing an animal in a PHPG containing
 .5 environment for a period of time.
    [0030]    The present disclosure further provides for, and includes, a method for controlling at
    least one insect or arachnid population in an environment, the comprising: (a) generating a
    gas comprising near-ideal gas Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) that is substantially
    non-hydrated and substantially free of ozone, plasma species, and optionally organic species;
20  (b) directing the PHPG into the environment such that the hydrogen peroxide gas acts to
    control at least one insect or arachnid population in the environment.
    [0031]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for, and includes, a method of
    termite control comprising treating a termite infested house with PHPG.
    [0032]    In a further aspect, the present disclosure provides for, and includes, a method of
25  controlling arthropods in a greenhouse comprising providing PHPG to a green house.
    [0033]    In an aspect, the present disclosure further provides for, and includes, a method of
    treating a houseplant for the control of an arthropod comprising placing an arthropod infested
    plant in a PHPG containing environment.

    [0034]     In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for a method for controlling an
    arthropod in an agricultural product during shipping comprising: providing Purified
    Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) at a concentration of at least 0.05 parts per million to a
    shipping container containing agricultural produce to prepare a PHPG containing shipping
  5 container; shipping the PHPG containing shipping container; and maintaining the PHPG
    concentration during the shipping, wherein the arthropod is controlled.
    [0035]     In an aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes a method for
    controlling an arthropod in a food processing facility comprising providing Purified
    Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) at a concentration of at least 0.05 parts per million to a food
 .0 processing facility.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0036]     Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms as used herein have the
    same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. One skilled in the
    art will recognize many methods can be used in the practice of the present disclosure.
 .5 Indeed, the present disclosure is in no way limited to the methods and materials described.
    Any references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entireties. For purposes of
    the present disclosure, the following terms are defined below.
    [0037]     As used herein, "a reduction" of a population of arthropods such as an insect
    population or arachnid population in an environment having PHPG means that the level is
 .0 reduced relative to the numbers of organisms of a population in an environment lacking
    PHPG. In some aspects, a reduction may occur due to the death or incapacitation of an
    arthropod population or due to the exit of members of the population from the PHPG
    containing environment.
    [0038]     As used herein, the term "at least a partial reduction" of a population of arthropods
25  such as an insect population or arachnid population in an environment having PHPG means
    that the level is reduced by at least 25% relative to the numbers of organisms of a population
    in an environment lacking PHPG. Also as used herein, it is understood that in environments
    having multiple populations of arthropods, each population may be "partially reduced"
    independently.
                                                     1A

     [0039]     As used herein, the term "a substantial reduction" of a population of arthropods
     such as an insect population or arachnid population in an environment having PHPG means
     that the level is reduced by at least 75% relative to the numbers of organisms of a population
     in an environment lacking PHPG. Also as used herein, it is understood that in environments
  5  having multiple populations of arthropods, each population may be "substantially reduced"
     independently.
     [0040]     As used herein, the term "an effective elimination" of a population of arthropods
     such as an insect population or arachnid population in an environment having PHPG means
     that the level is reduced by greater than 95% relative to the numbers of organisms of a
 .0  population in an environment lacking PHPG. Also as used herein, it is understood that in
     environments having multiple populations of arthropods, each population may be "effectively
     eliminated" independently. An effective amount of PHPG is preferably capable of providing
     at least a partial reduction, more preferably a substantial reduction, or most preferably
     effective elimination of an arthropod population.
 .5  [0041]     As used herein, the terms "suppress," "repress," and "downregulate" when referring
     to a population of arthropods used equivalently herein and mean that the levels of a
     population of arthropods are reduced relative to the number of arthropods in a population that
     would occur in the absence of PHPG under similar or identical conditions.
     [0042]     As used herein, the terms "control," "controls," or "controlling" a population of
  o0 arthropods by providing PHPG to the arthropod for a period of time refers to either the killing
     of the arthropod, induction of a behavioral change in the arthropod, or both, that results in
     reduction of the population of the arthropod in the PHPG environment relative to an untreated
     environment. As provided in detail below, different arthropod populations are controlled at
     different levels of PHPG and may require different periods of exposure to the PHPG
25   environment to accomplish desired levels of reduction.
     [0043]     As used herein, the singular form "a," "an" and "the" include plural references
     unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example, the term "an arthropod" or "at
     least one arthropod" may include a plurality of arthropods, including mixtures thereof. Also
     as used herein, an arthropod includes and provides for a population of arthropods. As used
30   herein, a population of arthropods may further include a mixed population of arthropods.
                                                      11

    [0044]    The present disclosure provides for an includes method for controlling an arthropod
    by providing PHPG to the arthropod for a period of time. An arthropod may be controlled in
    a variety of ways including by killing the arthropod at one or more stages of development or
    as an adult. In certain aspects, providing PHPG to an environment leads to the death of the
  5 arthropod after a period of time. In an aspect, providing PHPG gas provides for the death of
    a nymph stage of an arthropod. In an aspect, PHPG gas causes the death of an arthropod egg
    such that larvae never hatch. In an aspect, PHPG acts on adult stages of an arthropod. In
    some aspects, providing PHPG is an effective arthropodicide against all developmental stages
    of an arthropod species. As provided below, both the length of time necessary to kill the
 .0 arthropod and the amount of PHGP necessary to kill the arthropod may vary depending on
    the species of the arthropod.
    [0045]    The present disclosure also includes and provides for methods of control which
    disrupt the behavior of the arthropod. In some aspects, the methods of control provide for
    both the disruption of arthropod behavior and provide arthropodicidal effects. In some
 .5 aspects, after initial exposure to a concentration of PHPG, the arthropod ceases all activity
    and becomes immobile and dormant. In other aspects, exposure to a concentration of PHPG
    leads to enhanced activity of the arthropod. In certain aspects, the activity of flying
    arthropods greatly increases and can be characterized by high agitation and frantic activity.
    In aspects according to the present disclosure, control of an arthropod after exposure to
  o PHPG includes disruption of normal mating behavior. Other behavioral changes observed in
    arthropods exposed to PHPG containing environments includes disorientation. In an aspect,
    the present methods included inducing disorientation in an arthropod species. In some
    aspects, disorientation leads to a loss of feeding behavior. In other aspects, disorientation
    leads to a loss of mating behavior.
25  [0046]    In certain aspects according to the present disclosure, changes in behavior caused by
    exposure to PHPG may also be accompanied by physical signs of distress of the arthropod.
    In some aspects, physical signs of distress include regurgitation of recent meals. In another
    aspect, the arthropod may prematurely lay eggs. In certain aspects, the prematurely laid eggs
    may be fertilized eggs. In other aspects, the prematurely laid eggs may be un-fertilized. In
30  aspects according the present disclosure, exposure to PHPG gas results in the death of the
    prematurely laid eggs.

    [0047]    Also provided and included in the present disclosure are methods of controlling
    larval forms of an arthropod. In certain aspects, providing a PHPG leads to the premature
    hatching of an immature egg. In an aspect, methods to control an arthropod lead to the death
    of larval forms of an arthropod. In some aspects, larval forms are more sensitive to exposure
  5 to PHPG than adult or nymph forms. Thus, in some aspects lower levels of PHPG may
    control immature forms of arthropods where the adult form is significantly less affected. In
    some aspects, PHPG is provided to a larval form to inhibit the metamorphosis of the larva. In
    an aspect, PHPG may be provided at sufficient levels to act as a larvacide. The present
    disclosure further provides for and includes methods of killing nymph forms of arthropods.
 .0 [0048]    For many arthropods, exposure to PHPG leads to significant changes in behavior
    and PHPG acts as a very strong repellent. In some aspects, exposure to PHPG leads
    arthropods to search for an exit from the PHPG containing environment. In an aspect where
    the arthropod is unable to escape, the arthropod locates to a source of fresh (non-PHPG
    containing) air and attempts to survive. In household or non-experimental setting, such
 .5 arthropods would exit the domicile or environment. Similarly, arthropods are repelled from
    entering environments that have even very low concentrations of PHPG. Thus the present
    disclosure provides for methods of controlling an arthropod by providing a PHPG containing
    environment and repelling insects, thereby blocking their entry.
    [0049]    In aspects according to the present disclosure, PHPG levels may be provided in
 .0 excess over the amount necessary to kill a arthropod species. In such aspects,
    [0050]    The control methods of the present disclosure are effective against almost every
    arthropod tested including examples from multiple phylogenetic orders and classes. The few
    arthropods that appear to be resistant to PHPG levels up to 0.6 ppm for 24 hours included
    adult cockroaches and tarantula spiders. PHPG is lethal to most species. Determining
25  whether any specific species of arthropod is resistant or susceptible can be easily performed
    using the methods described below and known to one of skill in the art.
    [0051]     Certain arthropods are more susceptible to the methods of the present disclosure.
    Not to be limited by theory, flying insects, such as Diptera,are generally most susceptible
    due to high activity and rapid pumping of air containing hydrogen peroxide through their
30  tracheal tubes. Accordingly, methods to control flying insects require lower levels of PHPG
                                                    11

    gas and are particularly suited to methods of control wherein the arthropod is repelled from
    the PHPG containing environment.
    [0052]     With respect to arachnids,those species having 'book lungs' are generally more
    susceptible than the tracheal tube systems of crawling insects. The present disclosure
  5 provides for and includes methods of controlling book lung containing arthropods including
    arachnids and scorpions.
    [0053]     In some aspects, larger arthropods appear to be more resistant to the killing effects
    of a PHPG environment. Not to be limited by theory, this may be the result of an increased
    diffusion distance to more sensitive portions of the arthropod body. Alternatively, the larger
 .0 arthropod may be able to survive longer on stored oxygen once the tracheal system is closed
    off. In aspects according the present disclosure, resistance may be overcome by either
    increasing the length of time of the exposure, increasing the concentration of PHPG gas in the
    environment, or both.
    [0054]     It is understood that using the methods of the present disclosure and the knowledge
 .5 of one of ordinary skill in the art, the particular effect on an arthropod may be readily
    determined. Further the level of PHPG necessary to kill, inhibit, or repel a given arthropod as
    well as the length of time necessary to kill, inhibit, or repel may be readily determined using
    the disclosed methods and knowledge known in the art.
    [0055]     Without being limiting, PHPG may be produced by a device for producing non
 .0 hydrated PHPG having an enclosure, an air distribution mechanism providing an airflow, a
    thin air-permeable substrate structure having a catalyst on its surface, and a source of light,
    where the airflow is through the air-permeable substrate structure and the device produces
    PHPG and directs it out of the enclosure when in operation. In some aspects, the source of
    light is a source of ultraviolet light. In some aspects, the airflow comprises an angle of
25  incidence to the substrate structure that is greater than 45 degrees. In one aspect, the angle of
    incidence is 90 degrees. In another aspect, the airflow comprises air that has a humidity of at
    least 5%. In one aspect, the device further comprises a humidifier. The some aspects, the
    thin air-permeable substrate structure is between about 5 nm and about 750 nm thick. A
    more detailed explanation of a PHPG producing devices can be found in U.S. Patent No.
30  8,168,122, U.S. Patent No. 8,685,329, and U.S. Patent Application No. 61/988, 535, the
    contents of all of which are herein incorporated in their entireties.
                                                      1A

    [0056]     In aspects according to the present disclosure, a PHPG generating device may be
    incorporated into an air conditioner, a furnace, or a heating, ventilation, or an air-conditioning
    (HVAC) system.
    [0057]     The present disclosure provides for an includes a method for treating a house for an
  5 arthropod comprising providing PHPG to an environment within the house at a concentration
    of at least 0.05 ppm for a period of time, wherein the arthropod is controlled. In some
    aspects, the final PHPG concentration in said environment is at least 0.1 ppm. In other
    aspects, In other aspects, the final PHPG concentration in said environment is at least 0.2
    ppm, least 0.4 ppm, least 0.6 ppm, or least 0.8 ppm. In one aspect, the final PHPG
 .0 concentration in said environment is less than 1.0 ppm. In some aspects, the arthropod is
    selected from the group consisting of molds, mosquitoes, ants, termites, flies, moths, earwigs,
    crickets, centipedes, millipedes, roaches, and beetles. In one aspect, treating includes
    repelling from the PHPG containing environment or preventing entry into the PHPG
    containing environment by an arthropod selected from the group consisting of molds,
 .5 mosquitoes, ants, termites, flies, moths, earwigs, crickets, centipedes, millipedes, roaches,
    and beetles. In another aspect, treating includes killing of an arthropod selected from the
    group consisting of molds, mosquitoes, ants, termites, flies, moths, earwigs, crickets,
    centipedes, millipedes, roaches, and beetles. In one aspect, the method includes killing mold
    in mold-prone areas such as basements, kitchens, and bathrooms. In one aspect, the method
 10 includes providing a relatively high concentration of PHPG for a period of time to kill an
    anthrop, followed by maintaining a lower concentration of PHPG to repel an arthropod from
    entering, or growing in an environment within the house. In one aspect, the method includes
    preventing mold from growing in mold-prone areas such as basements, kitchens, and
    bathrooms.
25  [0058]     The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for controlling an
    arthropod in a storage facility. Storage facilities according to the present disclosure include
    personal and industrial storage facilities. In an aspect, the method includes providing a
    concentration of PHPG sufficient to repel flying insects. In an aspect, the methods include
    providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to kill flying insects. In an aspect, the method
30  includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to prevent mold from growing within
    the storage facility. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG
    sufficient to kill mold within the storage facility. In certain aspects, the PHPG is provided

    continuously to the storage facility. In other aspects, the PHPG is provided intermittently to
    the storage facility. In an aspect, the PHPG is provided during the daytime. In another
    aspect, the PHPG is provided during the overnight hours.
    [0059]     In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for treating a storage facility
  5 is provided at a final concentration to a storage facility of at least 0.1 ppm. In another aspect,
    the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In
    a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at
    least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
 .0 and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, least 0.6 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8
    ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained
    at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained
    between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of ordinary skill in the art may readily
 .5 determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the current disclosure and further in view of
    the type, number, and source of the arthropod species.
    [0060]     The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for controlling an
    arthropod in a lodging facility comprising providing PHPG to an environment within the
    lodging facility at a concentration of at least 0.05 ppm for a period of time, where the
  o arthropod population is controlled. Lodging facilities according to the present disclosure
    include but are not limited to hotels, motels, hostels, bed and breakfast facilities, tents,
    campers, and cottages. In an aspect, the method includes providing a concentration of PHPG
    sufficient to repel flying insects, fleas, mites, and lice. In an aspect, the methods include
    providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to kill flying insects. In an aspect, the method
25  includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to repel bed bugs. In an aspect, the
    method includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to prevent mold from growing
    within the lodging facility. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of
    PHPG sufficient to kill flying insects, fleas, mites, and lice within the lodging facility. In an
    aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to kill mold within
30  the lodging facility. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG
    sufficient to kill bed bugs within the lodging facility. In certain other aspects, the PHPG is
    provided continuously to the lodging facility. In other aspects, the PHPG is provided

    intermittently to the lodging facility. In an aspect, the PHPG is provided during the daytime.
    In another aspect, the PHPG is provided during the overnight hours. In one aspect, the PHPG
    is only provided when the lodging facility is unoccupied. In some aspects, the PHPG is
    produced by a stand-alone device. In other aspects, the PHPG is produced by a PHPG
  5 producing device that is incorporated into an air conditioner, a furnace, or a heating,
    ventilation, or an air-conditioning (HVAC) system.
    [0061]     In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG is provided to a lodging
    facility at a final concentration of at least 0.1 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In a further
 .0 aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.3
    ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
    and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, least 0.6 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8
    ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained
 .5 at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained
    between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of ordinary skill in the art may readily
    determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the current disclosure and further in view of
    the type, number, and source of the arthropod species.
 .0 [0062]     The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for controlling an
    arthropod in a greenhouse. Greenhouses according to the present disclosure include personal
    and industrial greenhouse. In an aspect, the method includes providing a concentration of
    PHPG sufficient to repel flying insects. In an aspect, the methods include providing a
    concentration of PHPG sufficient to kill flying insects. In an aspect, the method includes
25  providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to prevent mold from growing within the
    greenhouse. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient
    to kill mold within the greenhouse. In certain aspects, the PHPG is provided continuously to
    the greenhouse. In other aspects, the PHPG is provided intermittently to the greenhouse. In
    an aspect, the PHPG is provided during the daytime. In another aspect, the PHPG is provided
30  during the nighttime.
    [0063]     In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for treating a greenhouse is
    provided at a final concentration to a greenhouse of at least 0.1 ppm. In another aspect, the
                                                       l '7

    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In a
    further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at
    least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
  5 and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, at least 0.6 ppm, at least 0.7 ppm, at
    least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
    and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of ordinary skill in the art may readily
 .0 determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the current disclosure and further in view of
    the type, number, and source of the arthropod species.
    [0064]    The present disclosure provides for an includes a method treating a domesticated
    animal for the control of an arthropod comprising placing an animal in a PHPG containing
    environment for a period of time. In an aspect, the method includes providing a
 .5 concentration of PHPG sufficient to repel ticks, fleas, mites, and lice. In another aspect, the
    methods include providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to kill ticks, fleas, mites, and
    lice. In one aspect, the domesticated animal is selected from the group consisting of a cat, a
    dog, and a rodent.
    [0065]    In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for treating a domesticated
 .0 animal is provided at a final concentration to an environment for treating a domesticated
    animal of at least 0.1 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained at a concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.3 ppm. In a further
    aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.4
25  ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, least 0.6 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9
    ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at less than 1.0 ppm.
    In one aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm.
    In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0
30  ppm. Persons of ordinary skill in the art may readily determine a preferred level of PHPG in
    view of the current disclosure and further in view of the type, number, and source of the
    arthropod species.
                                                    12

    [0066]     The present disclosure provides for an includes a method treating an animal for an
    arthropod parasite comprising placing an animal in a PHPG containing environment for a
    period of time. In some aspects, the final PHPG concentration in said PHPG containing
    environment is at least 0.05 parts per million. In other aspects, the final PHPG concentration
  5 in said PHPG containing environment is less than 1.0 ppm. In some aspects, the animals is
    left in said PHPG containing environment for a time period sufficient to control said
    arthropod. In as aspect of the method, said animal is a domestic pet. In one aspect, the
    domestic pet selected from the group consisting of a cat, a dog, or a rodent. In other aspects
    of the disclosure, the animal is a livestock animal. In some aspects, the livestock animal is
 .0 selected from the group consisting of cattle, horses, sheep, goats, pigs, chickens, ducks, and
    geese. In one aspect, the arthropod is selected from the group consisting of ticks, horn flies,
    face flies, stable flies, biting lice, sucking lice, grubs and mites. In some aspects, the
    arthropod is a member of the phylogenetic class Mallophaga (chewing lice). In one aspect,
    the Mallophaga is selected from the group consisting of Bovicola ovis (sheep biting louse),
 .5 Menacanthusstramineus (chicken body louse), and Menopon gallinea (common hen louse).
    In one aspect, the arthropod is selected from the group consisting shaft louse, wing louse,
    chicken head louse, northern fowl mite, red chicken mite, tropical fowl mite, fowl tick, and
    sticklight flea.
    [0067]     The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for controlling an
 .0 arthropod in a food processing facility. In aspects according to the present disclosure, a food
    processing facility transforms a raw ingredients into food or food into processed forms. Food
    processing facilities according to the present disclosure include restaurants, food distribution
    centers, food packaging plants, rendering plants, abattoirs, fish canneries, and grocery stores.
    In an aspect, the method includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to repel
25  flying insects. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG
    sufficient to kill flying insects. In certain aspects, the PHPG is provided continuously to the
    food processing facility. In other aspects, the PHPG is provided intermittently to the food
    processing facility. In an aspect, the PHPG is provided during working hours. In another
    aspect, the PHPG is provided during non-working hours.
30  [0068]     In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for the treatment of a food
    processing facility is provided at a final concentration to a food processing facility of at least
    0.1 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
                                                        10

    concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
    and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further
    aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5
  5 ppm, least 0.6 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the
    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the
    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect,
    the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of
    ordinary skill in the art may readily determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the
 .0 current disclosure and further in view of the type, number, and source of the arthropod
    species.
    [0069]    The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for treating a house for a
    termite population comprising providing PHPG to an environment within the house at a
    concentration of at least 0.05 ppm for a period of time, wherein the termite population is
 .5 controlled. In an aspect, the method includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to
    repel termites. In an aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG
    sufficient to kill termites. In an aspect, the method includes providing a concentration of
    PHPG sufficient to cause the termites to cease eating. In certain aspects, the PHPG is
    provided continuously to the environment within the house. In other aspects, the PHPG is
  0 provided intermittently to the environment within the house. In an aspect, the PHPG is
    provided during the daytime. In another aspect, the PHPG is provided during the overnight
    hours.
    [0070]    In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for the treatment of termites
    is provided at a final concentration to the environment within the house of at least 0.1 ppm.
25  In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at
    least 0.2 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
    and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, least 0.6
30  ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect, the

    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of
    ordinary skill in the art may readily determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the
    current disclosure and further in view of the type, number, and source of the arthropod
    species.
  5 [0071]    The present disclosure provides for an includes a method for controlling an
    arthropod in cloths or linens during storage comprising providing PHPG to a storage
    container or package containing cloths or linens for a period of time. In an aspect, the
    method includes providing a concentration of PHPG sufficient to repel moths, flies, fleas,
    mites, and lice. In another aspect, the methods include providing a concentration of PHPG
 .0 sufficient to kill moths, flies, ticks, fleas, mites, and lice. In one aspect, the cloths or linens
    are to be stored for the winter. In another aspect, the cloths or linens are to be stored for the
    summer. In certain aspects, the PHPG is provided continuously to the storage container or
    package. In other aspects, the PHPG is provided intermittently to the storage container or
    package. In one aspect, the PHPG is provided to the storage container or package at a desired
 .5 concentration prior to sealing the storage container or package indefinitely.
    [0072]    In aspects according the present disclosure, the PHPG for controlling an arthropod
    in cloths or linens during storage is provided at a final concentration to cloths or linens of at
    least 0.1 ppm. In another aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.2 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided
 .0 and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further
    aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5
    ppm, least 0.6 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the
    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the
25  PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect,
    the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. Persons of
    ordinary skill in the art may readily determine a preferred level of PHPG in view of the
    current disclosure and further in view of the type, number, and source of the arthropod
    species.
30  [0073]    The present disclosure provides for and includes a method for controlling an
    arthropod in an agricultural product during shipping comprising providing PHPG to a
    shipping container containing an agricultural product to prepare a PHPG containing shipping

    container, shipping said container and maintaining said PHPG concentration at a
    predetermined concentration. In an aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained at a concentration of at least 0.05 parts per million (ppm). In one aspect, PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.1 ppm. In another
  5 aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.2
    ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and maintained at a
    concentration of at least 0.3 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG concentration is provided and
    maintained at a concentration of at least 0.4 ppm. In a further aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at a concentration of at least 0.5 ppm, least 0.6
 .0 ppm, least 0.7 ppm, least 0.8 ppm, or at least 0.9 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained at less than 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the PHPG
    concentration is provided and maintained between 0.1 and 0.6 ppm. In another aspect, the
    PHPG concentration is provided and maintained between 0.4 and 1.0 ppm. In one aspect, the
    shipping container is continuously flushed with PHPG containing flushing gas. In one
 .5 aspect, the PHPG containing flushing gas contains argon. Also included and provided for in
    the present disclosure are methods in which the PHPG is initially provided at concentration
    that is greater than the shipping concentration to provide enhanced initial killing of an
    arthropod. Using the methods below and those known in the art, determining the optimal
    amounts of PHPG during shipping may be accomplished with no more than routine
 .0 experimentation.
    [0074]     In some aspects, the agricultural product for shipping under conditions for the
    control of an arthropod by PHPG is a fruit. In other aspects, the agricultural product is a
    vegetable. In other aspects, the agricultural product is a nut, a seed, or a meat. In some
    aspects, shipping containers are built to international standard making them interchangeable
25  between shipping companies, rail and truck companies. In yet other aspects, the shipping
    containers may be optionally refrigerated, heated or otherwise treated as is standard during
    shipping. In aspects according to the present disclosure, the agricultural product shipped
    under conditions having PHGP is a banana. In an aspect the agricultural product is bulk
    coffee. In another aspect the agricultural product is soybean. In another aspect the
30  agricultural product is a grain. In an aspect the grain is selected from the group consisting of
    rice, wheat, corn, and barley. In another aspect the agricultural product is a perishable
    product. In certain aspects, the agricultural product is shipped in an environment having
    PHPG to minimize or avoid the transport and introduction of foreign species.
                                                    11)

    [0075]    The present disclosure provides for, and includes, methods for the control of a
    member of the phylum Arthropoda. In an aspect, the arthropod may be a part of a
    population. In certain aspects, a population of arthropods may include members at a variety
    of stages of development including without limitation eggs, larva, pupae, nymphs, and adults.
  5 In other aspects according to the present disclosure, the controlled arthropods may be part of
    a mixed population comprising two or more different populations of arthropods. Sources of
    detailed phylogenetic, behavioral, and physical characteristics are known to those of skill in
    the art. For example on the internet at insects.tamu.edu, and bugguide.net.
    [0076]    In some aspects, the eggs may be mature, immature, fertilized or unfertilized. In
 .0 some aspects, the larva may be at various stages of development. In some aspects, the
    nymphs may be at any stage of development.
    [0077]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes methods for the
    control of arthropods that are members of the phylogenetic order Homoptera. Members of
    the order Homoptera that may be controlled according to the methods of the present
 .5 disclosure include, for example, Aleurodes brassicae,Bemisia tabaci, Trialeurodes
    vaporariorum,Aphis gossypii, Brevicoryne brassicae,Cryptomyzus ribis, Doralisfabae,
    Doralispomi, Eriosoma lanigerum, Hyalopterus arundinis,Macrosiphum avenae, Myzus
    spp., Phorodon humuli, Rhopalosiphumpadi, Phyd/oxera vastatrix, Pemphigusspp.
    Empoasca spp., Euscelis bilobatus, Nephotettix cincticeps, Lecanium corni, Saissetia oleae,
 10 Laodelphax striatellus,Nilaparvatalugens, Aonidiella aurantii,Aspidiotus hederae,
    Pseudococcusspp. and Psylla spp.
    [0078]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes methods for the
    control of arthropods that are members of the phylogenetic order Lepidoptera. Members of
    the order Lepidoptera that may be controlled according the methods of the present disclosure
25  include, for example, Pectinophoragossypiella, Bupalus piniarius,Chemiatobiabrumata,
    Lithocolletis blancardclia,Hyponomeuta padella, Plutella maculipennis,Malacosoma
    neustria,Euproctis chrysorrhoea,Lynmantria spp., Bucculatrix thurberiella,Phyllocnistis
    citrella,Agrotis spp. Euxoa spp., Feltia spp., Earias insulana,Heliothis spp., Spodoptera
    exigua, Mamestra brassicae,Panolisflammea,Prodenialitura, Spodoptera litura,
30  Spodoptera spp., Trichoplusia ni, Carpocapsapomnonella, Pierisspp., Chilo spp., Pyrausta
    nubilalis, Ephestia kuehniella, Glalleriamellonella, Tineola bisselliella, Tinea pellionella,

     Hofmannophilapseudospretella, Cacocciapodana, Capua reticulana,Choristoneura
    fiuniferana, Clysia ambiguella, Homona magnanima and Tortrix viridana.
     [0079]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes methods for the
     control of arthropods that are members of the phylogenetic order Coleoptera. Members of
  5  the order Coleopterathat may be controlled according the methods of the present disclosure
     include, for example, Anobium punctatum, Rhizopertha dominica, Bruchidius obtectus,
     Acanthoscelides obtectus, Hylotrupes bajulus, Agelastica alni, Leptinotarsadecemlincata,
     Phaedon cochleariae,Diabroticaspp., Psylliodes chrysocephala, Epilachna varivestis,
     Atomaria spp., Oryzaephilus surinamnensis,Anthonomus spp., Sitophilus spp.,
 .0  Otiorrhynchussulcatus, Cosmopolites sordidus, Ceuthorrhynchusassimilis, Hypera postica,
     Dermestes spp., Trogoderma spp., Anthrenus spp., Attagenus spp., Lyctus spp., Meligethes
     aeneus. Ptinus spp., Niptus hololeucus, Gibbium psylloides, Tribolium spp. Tenebrio molitor,
     Agriotes spp., Conoderus spp., Melolontha melolontha, Amphimallon solstitialis and
     Costelytra zealandica.
 .5  [0080]    In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes methods for the
     control of arthropods that are members of the phylogenetic order Coleoptera. Members of
     the order Coleopterathat may be controlled according the methods of the present disclosure
     include, for example, Acalymma vittatum, Acanthoscelides obtectus, Adoretus spp.,
     Agelastica alni, Agriotes spp., Alphitobius diaperinus,Amphimallon solstitialis,Anoplophora
 10  spp., Anthonomus spp., Anthrenus spp., Apion spp., Apogonia spp., Atomaria spp., Attagenus
     spp., Bruchidius obtectus, Bruchus spp., Cassidaspp., Cerotoma trifurcata,Ceutorrhynchus
     spp., Chaetocnema spp., Cleonus mendicus, Conoderus spp., Cosmopolites spp., Costelytra
     zealandica, Cteniceraspp., Curculio spp., Cryptorhynchus lapathi, Cylindrocopturusspp.,
     Dermestes spp., Diabroticaspp., Dichocrocisspp., Diloboderusspp., Epilachna spp., Epitrix
25   spp., Faustinusspp., Gibbium psylloides, Hellula undalis, Heteronychus arator,Heteronyx
     spp., Hylamorpha elegans, Hylotrupes bajulus, Hypera postica, Hypothenemus spp.,
     Lachnosternaconsanguinea,Lema spp., Leptinotarsadecemlineata, Leucoptera spp., Lisso
     rhoptrus oryzophilus, Lixus spp., Luperodes spp., Lyctus spp., Megascelis spp., Melanotus
     spp., Meligethes aeneus, Melolontha spp., Migdolus spp., Monochamus spp., Naupactus
30   xanthographus,Niptus hololeucus, Oryctes rhinoceros,Oryzaephilus surinamensis,
     Oryzaphagus oryzae, Otiorrhynchusspp., Oxycetonia jucunda, Phaedon cochleariae,
     Phyllophagaspp., Phyllotretaspp., Popilliajaponica,Premnotrypesspp., Prostephanus

    truncatus, Psylliodes spp., Ptinus spp., Rhizobius ventralis, Rhizopertha dominica, Sitophilus
    spp., Sphenophorus spp., Stegobium paniceum, Sternechus spp., Symphyletes spp.,
    Tanymecus spp., Tenebrio molitor, Tribolium spp., Trogoderma spp., Tychius spp.,
    Xylotrechus spp., and Zabrus spp.
  5 [0081]     In another aspect, the present disclosure provides for and includes methods for the
    control of arthropods that are members of the phylogenetic class Arachnida. Members of the
    class Arachnida that may be controlled according the methods of the present disclosure
    include, for example, Acarus spp., Aceria sheldoni, Aculops spp., Aculus spp., Amblyomma
    spp., Amphitetranychus viennensis, Argas spp., Boophilus spp., Brevipalpus spp., Bryobia
 .0 praetiosa,Centruroidesspp., Chorioptes spp., Dermanyssus gallinae,Dermatophagoides
    pteronyssius, Dermatophagoidesfarinae,Dermacentorspp., Eotetranychus spp., Epitrimerus
    pyri, Eutetranychusspp., Eriophyes spp., Halotydeus destructor,Hemitarsonemus spp.,
    Hyalomma spp., Ixodes spp., Latrodectus spp., Loxosceles spp., Metatetranychusspp.,
    Nuphersa spp., Oligonychus spp., Ornithodorusspp., Ornithonyssus spp., Panonychus spp.,
 .5 Phyllocoptrutaoleivora, Polyphagotarsonemuslatus, Psoroptes spp., Rhipicephalus spp.,
    Rhizoglyphus spp., Sarcoptes spp., Scorpio maurus, Stenotarsonemusspp., Tarsonemus spp.,
    Tetranychus spp., Vaejovis spp., and Vasates lycopersici.
    [0082]     In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Coleoptera(beetles). A non-exhaustive list of these arthropods
  0 includes, but is not limited to, Acanthoscelides spp. (weevils), Acanthoscelides obtectus
    (common bean weevil), Agrilus planipennis (emerald ash borer), Agriotes spp. (wireworms),
    Anoplophora glabripennis(Asian longhorned beetle), Anthonomus spp. (weevils),
    Anthonomus grandis(boll weevil), Aphidius spp., Apion spp. (weevils), Apogonia spp.
    (grubs), Ataenius spretulus (Black Turgrass Ataenius), Atomaria linearis (pygmy mangold
25  beetle), Aulacophore spp., Bothynoderes punctiventris (beet root weevil), Bruchus spp.
    (weevils), Bruchus pisorum (pea weevil), Cacoesia spp., Callosobruchusmaculatus
    (southern cow pea weevil), Carpophilushemipteras (dried fruit beetle), Cassida vittata,
    Cerosternaspp., Cerotoma spp. (chrysomeids), Cerotoma trifurcata (bean leaf beetle),
    Ceutorhynchus spp. (weevils), Ceutorhynchus assimilis (cabbage seedpod weevil),
30  Ceutorhynchus napi (cabbage curculio), Chaetocnema spp. (chrysomelids), Colaspis spp.
    (soil beetles), Conoderus scalaris, Conoderus stigmosus, Conotrachelusnenuphar (plum
    curculio), Cotinus nitidis (Green June beetle), Criocerisasparagi(asparagus beetle),

    Cryptolestesferrugineus(rusty grain beetle), Cryptolestespusillus (flat grain beetle),
    Cryptolestes turcicus (Turkish grain beetle), Cteniceraspp. (wireworms), Curculio spp.
    (weevils), Cyclocephala spp. (grubs), Cylindrocpturusadspersus (sunflower stem weevil),
    Deporausmarginatus(mango leaf-cutting weevil), Dermestes lardarius(larder beetle),
  5 Dermestes maculates (hide beetle), Diabroticaspp. (chrysolemids), Epilachnavarivestis
    (Mexican bean beetle), Faustinuscubae, Hylobius pales (pales weevil), Hypera spp.
    (weevils), Hypera postica (alfalfa weevil), Hyperdoes spp. (Hyperodes weevil),
    Hypothenemus hampei (coffee berry beetle), Ips spp. (engravers),Lasioderma serricorne
    (cigarette beetle), Leptinotarsadecemlineata (Colorado potato beetle), Liogenysfuscus,
 .0 Liogenys suturalis,Lissorhoptrusoryzophilus (rice water weevil), Lyctus spp. (wood
    beetles/powder post beetles), Maecolaspisjoliveti, Megascelis spp., Melanotus communis,
    Meligethes spp., Meligethes aeneus (blossom beetle), Melolontha melolontha (common
    European cockchafer), Oberea brevis, Oberea linearis, Oryctes rhinoceros (date palm
    beetle), Oryzaephilus mercator (merchant grain beetle), Oryzaephilus surinamensis
 .5 (sawtoothed grain beetle), Otiorhynchus spp. (weevils), Oulema melanopus (cereal leaf
    beetle), Oulema oryzae, Pantomorusspp. (weevils), Phyllophaga spp. (May/June beetle),
    Phyllophaga cuyabana, Phyllotretaspp. (chrysomelids), Phynchites spp., Popilliajaponica
    (Japanese beetle), Prostephanustruncates (larger grain borer), Rhizopertha dominica (lesser
    grain borer), Rhizotrogus spp. (European chafer), Rhynchophorus spp. (weevils), Scolytus
 .0 spp. (wood beetles), Shenophorusspp. (Billbug), Sitona lineatus (pea leaf weevil), Sitophilus
    spp. (grain weevils), Sitophilus granaries(granary weevil), Sitophilus oryzae (rice weevil),
    Stegobium paniceum (drugstore beetle), Tribolium spp. (flour beetles), Tribolium castaneum
    (red flour beetle), Tribolium confusum (confused flour beetle), Trogoderma variabile
    (warehouse beetle), and Zabrus tenebioides.
25  [0083]    The present disclosure provides for and includes methods to control arthropods that
    are members of the subphylum Myriapoda. Members of the subphylum Myriapoda that may
    be controlled according the methods of the present disclosure include, for example, a member
    of the class Diplopoda or Chilopoda.
    [0084]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
30  control arthropods that are members of the subphylum Hexapoda. The present disclosure
    also provides for and includes methods to control arthropods that are members of the
    phylogenetic Class Insecta.

    [0085]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Dermaptera(earwigs).
    [0086]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Dictyoptera (cockroaches). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
  5 includes, but is not limited to, Blattella germanica (German cockroach), Blatta orientalis
    (oriental cockroach), Parcoblattapennylvanica, Periplanetaamericana (American
    cockroach), Periplanetaaustraloasiae(Australian cockroach), Periplanetabrunnea (brown
    cockroach), Periplanetafuliginosa(smokybrown cockroach), Pyncoselus suninamensis
    (Surinam cockroach), and Supella longipalpa (brownbanded cockroach).
 .0 [0087]    In aspects according to the present disclosure, the effective level of PHPG to control
    Dictyopterais greater than 0.6 ppm. In certain aspects, the effective level of PHPG to control
    Dictyopterais greater than 1.0 ppm. Yet other aspects, of PHPG to control Dictyoptera is
    greater than 1.5 ppm. Adult Dictyoptera appear to be resistant to low levels of PHPG and
    appear unaffected, however, eggs, larva and immature forms are expected to be susceptible to
 .5 PHPG. In certain aspects, the present disclosure provides for an induces methods for
    controlling Dictyoptera that provides for the arthropodicide of immature Dictyoptera,while
    altering the behavior of adult Dictyoptera. In an aspect, PHPG provides for the prevention of
    infestation by adult Dictyopteraby inhibiting the infiltration of adult Dictyoptera into a
    PHPG treated space.
 .0 [0088]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Diptera (true flies). A non-exhaustive list of these pests includes,
    but is not limited to, Aedes spp. (mosquitoes), Agromyzafrontella (alfalfa blotch leafminer),
    Agromyza spp. (leaf miner flies), Anastrepha spp. (fruit flies), Anastrepha suspensa
    (Caribbean fruit fly), Anopheles spp. (mosquitoes),Batroceraspp. (fruit flies), Bactrocera
25  cucurbitae (melon fly), Bactrocera dorsalis (oriental fruit fly), Ceratitisspp. (fruit flies),
    Ceratitiscapitata (Mediterranea fruit fly), Chrysops spp. (deer flies), Cochliomyia spp.
    (screwworms), Contariniaspp. (gall midges), Culex spp. (mosquitoes), Dasineuraspp. (gall
    midges), Dasineurabrassicae(cabbage gall midge), Delia spp., Deliaplatura (seedcorn
    maggot), Drosophilaspp. (vinegar flies), Fanniaspp. (filth flies), Fanniacanicularis(little
30  house fly), Fanniascalaris (latrine fly), Gasterophilusintestinalis (horse bot fly), Gracillia
    perseae,Haematobiairritans(horn fly), Hylemyia spp. (root maggots), Hypoderma lineatum
    (common cattle grub), Liriomyza spp. (leafminer flies), Liriomyza brassica (serpentine
                                                    1 7

    leafniner), Melophagus ovinus (sheep ked), Musca spp. (muscid flies), Musca autumnalis
    (face fly), Musca domestica (house fly), Oestrus ovis (sheep bot fly), Oscinellafrit(frit fly),
    Pegomyia betae (beet leafminer), Phorbiaspp., Psila rosae (carrot rust fly), Rhagoletis cerasi
    (cherry fruit fly), Rhagoletis pomonella (apple maggot), Sitodiplosis mosellana (orange wheat
  5 blossom midge), Stomoxys calcitrans(stable fly), Tabanus spp. (horse flies), and Tipula spp.
    (crane flies).
    [0089]     Yet other examples of arthropods that are members of the class Dipterathat can be
    controlled by the methods provided for in the present disclosure include, but are not limited
    to Asphondylia spp., Bibio hortulanus, Calliphoraerythrocephala, Chironomusspp.,
 .0 Chrysomyia spp., Cordylobia anthropophaga,Culicoides spp., Culiseta spp., Cuterebraspp.,
    Dacus oleae, Dermatobiahominis, Echinocnemus spp., Glossina spp., Haematopota spp.,
    Hydrellia spp., Hyppobosca spp., Hypoderma spp., Lucilia spp., Lutzomia spp., Mansonia
    spp., Nezara spp., Oestrus spp., Pegomyia spp., Phlebotomus spp., Phormiaspp., Prodiplosis
    spp., Rhagoletis spp., Sarcophagaspp., Simulium spp, Stomoxys spp., Tannia spp., and
 .5 Tetanops spp.
    [0090]     In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Hemiptera (true bugs). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
    includes, but is not limited to, Acrosternum hilare (green stink bug), Blissus leucopterus
    (chinch bug), Calocoris norvegicus (potato mirid), Cimex hemipterus (tropical bed bug),
 .0 Cimex lectularius (bed bug), Dagbertusfasciatus,Dichelopsfurcatus,Dysdercus suturellus
    (cotton stainer), Edessa meditabunda,Eurygastermaura (cereal bug), Euschistus heros,
    Euschistus servus (brown stink bug), Helopeltis antonii,Helopeltis theivora (tea blight
    plantbug), Lagynotomus spp. (stink bugs), Leptocorisa oratorius,Leptocorisa varicornis,
    Lygus spp. (plant bugs), Lygus hesperus (western tarnished plant bug), Maconellicoccus
25  hirsutus,Neurocolpus longirostris,Nezara viridula (southern green stink bug), Phytocoris
    spp. (plant bugs), Phytocoris californicus,Phytocoris relativus,Piezodorusguildingi,
    Poecilocapsuslineatus (fourlined plant bug), Psallus vaccinicola,Pseudacystaperseae,
    Scaptocoris castanea,and Triatoma spp. (bloodsucking conenose bugs/kissing bugs).
    [0091]     Yet other examples of pests that are members of the class Heteropteraand can be
30  controlled by the methods provided for in the present disclosure include, but are not limited
    to Anasa tristis,Antestiopsis spp., Boisea spp., Blissus spp., Calocorisspp., Campylomma
    livida, Caveleriusspp., Cimex spp., Collariaspp., Creontiades dilutus, Dasynuspiperis,

    Diconocorishewetti, Dysdercus spp., Euschistus spp., Eurygasterspp., Heliopeltis spp.,
    Horcias nobilelus, Leptocorisaspp., Leptoglossus phyllopus, Macropes excavatus, Miridae,
    Monalonion atratum,Nezara spp., Oebalus spp., Pentomidae, Piesma quadrata,Piezodorus
    spp., Psallus spp., Rhodnius spp., Sahlbergellasingularis,Scotinophora spp., Stephanitis
  5 nashi, and Tibraca spp.
    [0092]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Homoptera (aphids, scales, whiteflies, leafhoppers). A non
    exhaustive list of these pests includes, but is not limited to, Acrythosiphon pisum (pea aphid),
    Adelges spp. (adelgids), Aleurodes proletella (cabbage whitefly), Aleurodicus disperses,
 .0 Aleurothrixusfloccosus (woolly whitefly), Aluacaspis spp., Amrasca bigutella bigutella,
    Aphrophora spp. (leafhoppers), Aonidiella aurantii (California red scale), Aphis spp.
    (aphids), Aphis gossypii (cotton aphid), Aphis pomi (apple aphid), Aulacorthum solani
    (foxglove aphid), Bemisia spp. (whiteflies), Bemisia argentifolii,Bemisia tabaci (sweetpotato
    whitefly), Brachycolus noxius (Russian aphid), Brachycorynella asparagi(asparagus aphid),
 .5 Brevennia rehi, Brevicoryne brassicae(cabbage aphid), Ceroplastesspp. (scales),
    Ceroplastesrubens (red wax scale), Chionaspisspp. (scales), Chrysomphalus spp. (scales),
    Coccus spp. (scales), Dysaphis plantaginea(rosy apple aphid), Empoasca spp. (leafhoppers),
    Eriosoma lanigerum (woolly apple aphid), Icerya purchasi (cottony cushion scale),
    Idioscopus nitidulus (mango leafhopper), Laodelphax striatellus(smaller brown
 10 planthopper),Lepidosaphesspp., Macrosiphum spp., Macrosiphum euphorbiae (potato
    aphid), Macrosiphum granarium(English grain aphid), Macrosiphum rosae (rose aphid),
    Macrosteles quadrilineatus(aster leafhopper), Mahanarvafrimbiolata,Metopolophium
    dirhodum (rose grain aphid), Mictis longicornis,Myzus persicae (green peach aphid),
    Nephotettix spp. leafhopperss), Nephotettix cinctipes (green leafhopper), Nilaparvatalugens
25  (brown planthopper), Parlatoriapergandii(chaff scale), Parlatoriaziziphi (ebony scale),
    Peregrinusmaidis (corn delphacid), Philaenusspp. (spittlebugs), Phylloxera vitifoliae (grape
    phylloxera), Physokermespiceae (spruce bud scale), Planococcusspp. (mealybugs),
    Pseudococcusspp. (mealybugs), Pseudococcus brevipes (pine apple mealybug),
    Quadraspidiotusperniciosus (San Jose scale), Rhapalosiphum spp. (aphids), Rhapalosiphum
30  maida (corn leaf aphid), Rhapalosiphumpadi (oat bird-cherry aphid), Saissetia spp. (scales),
    Saissetia oleae (black scale), Schizaphis graminum (greenbug), Sitobion avenae (English
    grain aphid), Sogatellafurcifera(white-backed planthopper), Therioaphisspp. (aphids),
    Toumeyella spp. (scales), Toxoptera spp. (aphids), Trialeurodesspp. (whiteflies),
                                                     ,o

    Trialeurodesvaporariorum(greenhouse whitefly), Trialeurodesabutiloneus (bandedwing
    whitefly), Unaspis spp. (scales), Unaspisyanonensis (arrowhead scale), and Zulia entreriana.
    [0093]     Yet other examples of pests that are members of the class Homopterathat can be
    controlled by the methods provided for in the present disclosure include, but are not limited
  5 to Acyrthosipon spp., Acrogonia spp., Aeneolamia spp., Agonoscena spp., Aleurodes spp.,
    Aleurolobus barodensis,Aleurothrixus spp., Amrasca spp., Anuraphis cardui,Aonidiella
    spp., Aphanostigma piri,Arboridia apicalis,Aspidiella spp., Aspidiotus spp. Atanus spp.,
    Brachycaudus helichrysii,Brachycolus spp., Brevicoryne brassicae,Calligypona marginata,
    Carneocephalafulgida,Ceratovacunalanigera, Cercopidae, Chaetosiphonfragaefolii,
 .0 Chionaspis tegalensis, Chloritaonukii, Chromaphisjuglandicola,Chrysomphalusficus,
    Cicadulinambila, Coccomytilus halli, Cryptomyzus ribis, Dalbulus spp., Dialeurodesspp.,
    Diaphorinaspp., Diaspis spp., Drosichaspp., Dysaphis spp., Dysmicoccus spp., Eriosoma
    spp., Erythroneuraspp., Euscelis bilobatus, Ferrisiaspp., Geococcus coffeae, Hieroglyphus
    spp., Homalodisca coagulata,Hyalopterus arundinis,Icerya spp., Idiocerus spp., Idioscopus
 .5 spp., Lecanium spp., Lipaphis erysimi, Mahanarvaspp., Melanaphissacchari,Metca/fiella
    spp., Monellia costalis, Monelliopsis pecanis, Myzus spp., Nasonovia ribisnigri,
    Oncometopiaspp., Ortheziapraelonga,Parabemisiamyricae, Paratriozaspp., Parlatoria
    spp., Pemphigus spp., Phenacoccus spp., Phloeomyzus passerinii,Phorodon humuli,
    Phylloxeraspp., Pinnaspisaspidistrae,Protopulvinariapyriformis, Pseudaulacaspis
 10 pentagona,Psylla spp., Pteromalus spp., Pyrilla spp., Quadraspidiotusspp., Quesada gigas,
    Rastrococcusspp., Scaphoides titanus, Selenaspidus articulatus,Sogata spp., Sogatodes spp.,
    Stictocephalafestina,Tenalapharamalayensis, Tinocallis caryaefoliae, Tomaspis spp.,
    Trialeurodesspp., Trioza spp., Typhlocyba spp., Viteus vitifolii, and Zygina spp.
    [0094]     In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
25  control arthropods that are Hymenoptera (ants, wasps, and bees). A non-exhaustive list of
    these pests includes, but is not limited to, Acromyrrmex spp., Athalia rosae, Atta spp.
    (leafcutting ants), Camponotus spp. (carpenter ants), Diprion spp. (sawflies), Formicaspp.
    (ants), Iridomyrmex humilis (Argentine ant), Monomorium ssp., Monomorium minumum
    (little black ant), Monomorium pharaonis(Pharaoh ant), Neodiprion spp. (sawflies),
30  Pogonomyrmex spp. (harvester ants), Polistes spp. (paper wasps), Solenopsis spp. (fire ants),
    Tapoinoma sessile (odorous house ant), Tetranomorium spp. (pavement ants), Vespula spp.
    (yellow jackets), and Xylocopa spp. (carpenter bees).
                                                     In

    [0095]     In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Isoptera (termites). A non-exhaustive list of these pests includes,
    but is not limited to, Coptotermes spp., Coptotermes curvignathus, Coptotermesfrenchii,
    Coptotermesformosanus(Formosan subterranean termite), Cornitermesspp. (nasute
  5 termites), Cryptotermes spp. (drywood termites), Heterotermes spp. (desert subterranean
    termites), Heterotermes aureus,Kalotermes spp. (drywood termites), Incistitermes spp.
    (drywood termites), Macrotermesspp. (fungus growing termites), Marginitermesspp.
    (drywood termites), Microcerotermesspp. (harvester termites), Microtermes obesi,
    Procornitermesspp., Reticulitermes spp. (subterranean termites), Reticulitermes banyulensis,
 .0 Reticulitermes grasses, Reticulitermesflavipes(eastern subterranean termite), Reticulitermes
    hageni, Reticulitermes hesperus (western subterranean termite), Reticulitermes santonensis,
    Reticulitermes speratus, Reticulitermes tibialis,Reticulitermes virginicus, Schedorhinotermes
    spp., and Zootermopsis spp. (rotten-wood termites).
    [0096]     In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
 .5 control arthropods that are Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies). A non-exhaustive list of these
    pests includes, but is not limited to, Achoea janata,Adoxophyes spp., Adoxophyes orana,
    Agrotis spp. (cutworms), Agrotis ipsilon (black cutworm), Alabama argillacea(cotton
    leafworm), Amorbia cuneana, Amyelosis transitella(navel orangeworm), Anacamptodes
    defectaria,Anarsia lineatella (peach twig borer), Anomis sabulifera (jute looper), Anticarsia
  0 gemmatalis (velvetbean caterpillar), Archips argyrospila(fruit tree leafroller), Archips
    rosana (rose leaf roller), Argyrotaeniaspp. (tortricid moths), Argyrotaenia citrana (orange
    tortrix), Autographagamma, Bonagota cranaodes,Borbo cinnara(rice leaf folder),
    Bucculatrix thurberiella(cotton leaf perforator), Caloptiliaspp. (leaf miners), Capua
    reticulana, Carposinaniponensis (peach fruit moth), Chilo spp., Chlumetia transversa
25  (mango shoot borer), Choristoneurarosaceana(oblique banded leaf roller), Chrysodeixis
    spp., Cnaphalocerusmedinalis (grass leafroller), Colias spp., Conpomorpha cramerella,
    Cossus cossus (carpenter moth), Crambus spp. (Sod webworms), Cydiafunebrana(plum
    fruit moth), Cydia molesta (oriental fruit moth), Cydia nignicana (pea moth), Cydia
    pomonella (codling moth), Darna diducta, Diaphaniaspp. (stem borers), Diatraeaspp. (stalk
30  borers), Diatraeasaccharalis(sugarcane borer), Diatraeagraniosella(southwestern corn
    borer), Eariasspp. (bollworms), Earias insulata (Egyptian bollworm), Eariasvitella (rough
    northern bollworm), Ecdytopopha aurantianum,Elasmopa/pus lignosellus (lesser cornstalk
    borer), Epiphysiaspostruttana(light brown apple moth), Ephestia spp. (flour moths),
                                                     11

    Ephestia cautella (almond moth), Ephestia elutella (tobacco moth), Ephestia kuehniella
    (Mediterranean flour moth), Epimeces spp., Epinotia aporema, Erionota thrax (banana
    skipper), Eupoecilia ambiguella (grape berry moth), Euxoa auxiliaris(army cutworm), Feltia
    spp. (cutworms), Gortyna spp. (stemborers), Grapholitamolesta (oriental fruit moth),
  5 Hedylepta indicata (bean leaf webber), Helicoverpa spp. (noctuid moths), Helicoverpa
    armigera (cotton bollworm), Helicoverpazea (bollworm/corn earworm), Heliothis spp.
    (noctuid moths), Heliothis virescens (tobacco budworm), Hellula undalis (cabbage
    webworm), Indarbelaspp. (root borers), Keiferia lycopersicella (tomato pinworm),
    Leucinodes orbonalis(eggplant fruit borer), Leucoptera malifoliella, Lithocollectis spp.,
 .0 Lobesia botrana (grape fruit moth), Loxagrotis spp. (noctuid moths), Loxagrotis albicosta
    (western bean cutworm), Lymantria dispar (gypsy moth), Lyonetia clerkella (apple leaf
    miner), Mahasena corbetti (oil palm bagworm), Malacosoma spp. (tent caterpillars),
    Mamestra brassicae(cabbage armyworm), Maruca testulalis (bean pod borer), Metisaplana
    (bagworm), Mythimna unipuncta (true armyworm), Neoleucinodes elegantalis (small tomato
 .5 borer), Nymphula depunctalis (rice caseworm), Operophtherabrumata (winter moth),
    Ostrinianubilalis (European corn borer), Oxydia vesulia, Pandemis cerasana(common
    currant tortrix), Pandemisheparana (brown apple tortrix), Papilio demodocus, Pectinophora
    gossypiella (pink bollworm), Peridromaspp. (cutworms), Peridromasaucia (variegated
    cutworm), Perileucopteracoffeella (white coffee leafminer), Phthorimaeaoperculella
 10 (potato tuber moth), Phyllocnisitis citrella,Phyllonorycterspp. (leafminers), Pierisrapae
    (imported cabbageworm), Plathypena scabra, Plodiainterpunctella (Indian meal moth),
    Plutella xylostella (diamondback moth), Polychrosis viteana (grape berry moth), Prays
    endocarpa, Prays oleae (olive moth), Pseudaletiaspp. (noctuid moths), Pseudaletia
    unipunctata (armyworm), Pseudoplusiaincludens (soybean looper), Rachiplusia nu,
25  Scirpophaga incertulas,Sesamia spp. (stemborers), Sesamia inferens (pink rice stem borer),
    Sesamia nonagrioides,Setora nitens, Sitotroga cerealella (Angoumois grain moth),
    Sparganothispilleriana,Spodoptera spp. (armyworms), Spodoptera exigua (beet
    armyworm), Spodopterafrugiperda(fall armyworm), Spodoptera oridania (southern
    armyworm), Synanthedon spp. (root borers), Thecla basilides, Thermisia gemmatalis, Tineola
30  bisselliella (webbing clothes moth), Trichoplusia ni (cabbage looper), Tuta absoluta,
    Yponomeuta spp., Zeuzera coffeae (red branch borer), and Zeuzera pyrina (leopard moth).
    [0097]    Yet other examples of pests that are members of the class Lepidopterathat can be
    controlled by the methods provided for in the present disclosure include, but are not limited

     toAcronicta major, Aedia leucomelas, Alabama spp., Anarsia spp., Anticarsia spp.,
     Argyroploce spp., Barathrabrassicae,Borbo cinnara,Bupalus piniarius,Busseola spp.,
     Cacoeciaspp., Caloptiliatheivora, Carpocapsapomonella, Chematobia brumata,
     Choristoneuraspp., Clysia ambiguella, Cnaphalocerusspp., Cnephasiaspp., Conopomorpha
  5  spp., Conotrachelusspp., Copitarsiaspp., Cydia spp., Dalaca noctuides, Eldana saccharina,
     Epinotiaspp., Epiphyaspostvittana, Etiella spp., Eulia spp., Euproctis spp., Euxoa spp.,
     Galleriamellonella, Gracillariaspp., Grapholithaspp., Hedylepta spp., Hofmannophila
    pseudospretella,Homoeosoma spp., Homona spp., Hyponomeuta padella, Kakivoria
    flavofasciata,Laphygma spp., Laspeyresia molesta, Leucoptera spp., Lithophane antennata,
 .0  Lobesia spp., Lymantria spp., Lyonetia spp., Malacosoma neustria,Mamestra brassicae,
     Mocis spp., Myth imna separata,Nymphula spp., Oiketicus spp., Oria spp., Orthagaspp.,
     Ostriniaspp., Oulema oryzac, Panolisflammea,Parnaraspp., Pectinophoraspp.,
     Perileucopteraspp., Phthorimaeaspp., Pierisspp., Platynota stultana,Plusia spp., Prays
     spp., Prodeniaspp., Protoparcespp., Pyraustanubilalis, Schoenobius spp., Scirpophaga
 .5  spp., Scotia segetum, Sparganothisspp., Stathmopoda spp., Stomopteryx subsecivella, Tecia
     solanivora, Tinea pellionella, Tortrix spp., Trichophagatapetzella, Trichoplusia spp., and
     Virachola spp.
     [0098]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
     control arthropods that are Mallophaga (chewing lice). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
  0  includes, but is not limited to, Bovicola ovis (sheep biting louse), Menacanthus stramineus
     (chicken body louse), and Menopon gallinea (common hen louse).
     [0099]    In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
     control arthropods that are Orthoptera(grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets). A non
     exhaustive list of these pests includes, but is not limited to, Anabrus simplex (Mormon
25   cricket), Gryllotalpidae(mole crickets), Locusta migratoria,Melanoplus spp. (grasshoppers),
     Microcentrum retinerve (angular winged katydid), Pterophyllaspp. (katydids), chistocerca
     gregaria,Scudderiafurcata(fork tailed bush katydid), and Valanga nigricorni.
     [00100] In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
     control arthropods that are Phthiraptera(sucking lice). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
30   includes, but is not limited to, Haematopinusspp. (cattle and hog lice), Linognathus ovillus
     (sheep louse), Pediculus humanus capitis (human body louse), Pediculus humanus humanus
     (human body lice), and Pthiruspubis (crab louse),
                                                      11

    [00101] In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Siphonaptera(fleas). A non-exhaustive list of these pests includes,
    but is not limited to, Ctenocephalidescanis (dog flea), Ctenocephalidesfelis(cat flea), and
    Pulex irritans(human flea).
  5 [00102] In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Thysanoptera (thrips). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
    includes, but is not limited to, Frankliniellafusca(tobacco thrips), Frankliniellaoccidentalis
    (western flower thrips), Frankliniellashultzei Frankliniellawilliamsi (corn thrips),
    Heliothripshaemorrhaidalis(greenhouse thrips), Riphiphorothripscruentatus,Scirtothrips
 .0 spp., Scirtothripscitri (citrus thrips), Scirtothripsdorsalis (yellow tea thrips), Taeniothrips
    rhopalantennalis,and Thrips spp.
    [00103] In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Thysanura (bristletails). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
    includes, but is not limited to, Lepisma spp. (silverfish) and Thermobia spp. (firebrats).
 .5 [00104] In another aspect, the present disclosure also provides for and includes methods to
    control arthropods that are Acarina (mites and ticks). A non-exhaustive list of these pests
    includes, but is not limited to, Acarapsiswoodi (tracheal mite of honeybees), Acarus spp.
    (food mites), Acarus siro (grain mite), Aceria mangiferae (mango bud mite), Aculops spp.,
    Aculops lycopersici (tomato russet mite), Aculops pelekasi, Aculus pelekassi, Aculus
 10 schlechtendali (apple rust mite), Amblyomma americanum (lone star tick), Boophilus spp.
    (ticks), Brevipalpus obovatus (privet mite), Brevipalpusphoenicis (red and black flat mite),
    Demodex spp. (mange mites), Dermacentorspp. (hard ticks), Dermacentorvariabilis
    (American dog tick), Dermatophagoidespteronyssinus (house dust mite), Eotetranycus spp.,
    Eotetranychuscarpini (yellow spider mite), Epitimerus spp., Eriophyes spp., Ixodes spp.
25  (ticks), Metatetranycusspp., Notoedres cati, Oligonychus spp., Oligonychus coffee,
    Oligonychus ilicus (southern red mite), Panonychus spp., Panonychus citri (citrus red mite),
    Panonychus u/mi (European red mite), Phyllocoptruta oleivora (citrus rust mite),
    Polyphagotarsonemunlatus (broad mite), Rhipicephalus sanguineus (brown dog tick),
    Rhizoglyphus spp. (bulb mites), Sarcoptes scabiei (itch mite), Tegolophus perseaflorae,
30  Tetranychus spp., Tetranychus urticae (two-spotted spider mite), and Varroa destructor
    (honey bee mite).

    [00105] Additional information regarding arthropods suitable for control using the methods
    of the present disclosure, may be found in "Handbook of Pest Control--The Behavior, Life
    History, and Control of Household Pests" by Arnold Mallis, 9th Edition, copyright 2004 by
    GIE Media Inc.
  5 [00106] It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity,
    described in the context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in combination in a
    single embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention, which are, for brevity,
    described in the context of a single embodiment, may also be provided separately or in any
    suitable subcombination or as suitable in any other described embodiment of the invention.
 .0 Certain features described in the context of various embodiments are not to be considered
    essential features of those embodiments, unless the embodiment is inoperative without those
    elements. For example, methods of using PHPG gas to kill arthropods are also effective at
    repelling arthropods. Thus, following the initial killing of an arthropod, continued use of
    PHPG prevents the reinfestation.
 .5 [00107] Various embodiments and aspects of the present invention as delineated
    hereinabove and as claimed in the claims section below find experimental support in the
    following Examples. The following Examples are presented for the purposes of illustration
    and should not be construed as limitations.
    [00108] Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific
  0 embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations will be
    apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such
    alternatives, modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the
    appended claims.
    [00109] All publications, patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
25  herein incorporated in their entirety by reference into the specification, to the same extent as
    if each individual publication, patent or patent application was specifically and individually
    indicated to be incorporated herein by reference. In addition, citation or identification of any
    reference in this application shall not be construed as an admission that such reference is
    available as prior art to the present invention. To the extent that section headings are used,
30  they should not be construed as necessarily limiting.

    Examples:
    Example 1: Generation and measurement of PHPG:
    [00110] All PHPG concentration readings take place with Draeger products. A Pac III,
    Polytron 7000 or Draeger Tubes are utilized in all tests, generally according to
  5 manufacturer's instructions. The Polytron displays a digital reading when air is drawn
    through the mesh sensor. Most commonly, Draeger Tubes are used after clipping on both
    ends and placement in a ACCUROTM Pump. Per manufacturer instructions, the tubes are
    pumped 100 times and the level of PHPG determined by observing the color change in the
    crystals. The PAC III has proved to be generally less effective in measuring very low levels
 .0 of PHPG.
    Example 2: Laboratorv Testing of PHPGfor the Control ofArthropod Species
    [00111] The effects of Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) on selected arthropod
    species is performed to determine the efficacy on controlling an arthropod using the indirect
    dispersion of PHPG in a space. In these experiments, the knockdown and mortality rates in
 .5 mosquitoes, bed bugs, termites, ants, moths, house flies, and spiders is assessed.
    [00112] Black wood ants, house flies (adult and pupae), large saturniid moths, termites
    (soldier and living), and cellar spiders are obtained from Carolina Supplies and shipped
    overnight. All organisms are fed prior to shipping from Carolina Supplies. Bed bugs and
    mosquitoes are sourced locally due to government shipping restrictions. The test samples are
20  stored in a cabinet at ambient temperature and humidity until use in the study. The samples
    are labeled and color-coded for easy identification. In certain experiments, specimens of wild
    caught arthropods are used in the controlled experiments, including for example Brazilian
    cockroaches.
    [00113] All testing is conducted in a sealed, Static Dissipative PVC chamber, Terra
25  Universal (Fullerton, CA) Model 3305-OF : 59 inches W x 24 inches D x 25 inches H1. With
    additional airlock Terra Universal Model 1680-8 1B 11.5 inches W x 10 inches D x 10,5
    inches -1. Arthropods are placed inside transfer containers (pint size paper containers). The
    top and bottom diameters of these containers are 3.75 and 2.87 inches respectively with a
    height of 3.5 inches. All arthropods are released once the airlock is sealed. Arthropods are

    allowed to recover following PHPG exposure and observed in 8 oz glass Pyrex@
    (Tewksbury, MA) containers with sealed glass lids.
    [00114] Three replicates of ten of each arthropod are subjected to PHPG. An additional
    three replicates are subjected to a non PHPG producing device and serve as untreated
  5 controls. The arthropods are observed for knockdown at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 15 minutes.
    Mortality counts are taken after 24 hours of PHPG exposure. If at 24 hours mortality is less
    90%, additional readings are taken following 48 hours of PHPG exposure. The test samples
    are exposed to the test environment containing PHPG until a 90% knockdown is achieved.
    The test samples are provided PHPG emitted from a PHPG producing device in the center of
 .0 the test chamber. Time frames are recorded for each replicate. Just prior to treatment the
    arthropods are transferred into the transfer containers. Forty eight hours after treatment, they
    are removed from the treatment chamber and transferred to recovery containers and covered
    with screened lids for observation.
    [00115] After treatment, the arthropods are observed for knockdown and mortality at 0.5, 1,
 .5 2, 3, 4, 5, 15, 30 minutes and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 24, and 48 hours. Knockdown occurs when
    an arthropod cannot right itself when placed on its back but is still able to move at least one
    body part. The arthropods are then transferred from the treatment chamber to recovery
    containers. Another knockdown/mortality observation is made 15 minutes later.
    [00116] If all ten arthropods are recorded as knocked down or deceased during any
 .0 observation before 15 minutes have elapsed, subsequent observations are not made.
    Mortality counts are made at 24 hours, and 48 hours or sooner (if applicable). All dead
    arthropods are confirmed by probing or agitation to make sure that they are unable to move
    (any that show movement visible to the naked eye are recorded as moribund). Arthropods
    that can crawl or right themselves when placed on their backs are recorded as being alive.
25  [00117] After the knockdown counts are complete, the arthropods are maintained in the
    laboratory at ambient temperature and humidity conditions with a normal 8:16 light:dark
    cycle for 24 hours. Additional mortality readings are taken at 48 hours if less than 90%
    mortality is recorded at 24 hours. A 48 hour reading depends upon control mortality
    remaining less than 10%. Temperature and humidity are recorded in the treatment area, and
30  in the laboratory where the arthropods are subsequently held for the duration of the test. The
    number of dead arthropods per replicate are added together for a total mortality count.

Abbott's Formula is used to correct for any mortality among the controls. The results are
presented in Table 1.
Table 1: Effect of PHPG on Arthropod Species in Laboratory Tests
Organism        PHPG      Exposure     Attempt       Percent    Observations
                Level     Time         to Flee?      Killed
Bedbugs         0.6       3 hours          No,         50%      All bedbugs reacted within
                ppm       60 hours        Went         100%     fifteen seconds.
                                         Dormant                Bedbugs with recent blood
                                                                meal regurgitated.
                                                                Females immediately laid
                                                                immature eggs.
                                                                Immature eggs immediately
                                                                hatched.
                                                                Nymphs died in seconds.
                                                                Almost all bedbugs then
                                                                stopped moving.
                                                                Bedbugs that had
                                                                regurgitated recent blood
                                                                meal remained active,
                                                                collecting and stacking
                                                                dormant bedbugs.
                                                                Dormant bedbugs began to
                                                                revive when removed from
                                                                the environment after one
                                                                hour, and were replaced.
                                                                All died over time.
Brown Dog       0.6       3 hours          Yes         70%      All ticks searched for an exit
Tick            ppm       60 hours                     100%     until they succumbed.
Carpenter       1.0       24 Hours         Yes          15%     All ants attempted to flee.
Ants            ppm                                             When unable 50% collected
                                                                in areas where fresh air was
                                                                seeping into the chamber and
                                                                remained inactive. Others
                                                                continued to search for an
                                                                exit. Smallest ants died first.
Cockroaches     0.6       24 Hours         No           0%      Appeared resistant at low
                ppm                                             level of PHPG. Did not react
                                                                to the gas, suggesting
                                                                possession of protective
                                                                enzymes.
Cellar          1.0       24 Hours         Yes         33%      Smallest spiders died within
Spiders         ppm                                             one hour. Larger spiders
                                                                survived long enough to find
                                                                a fresh air source.
Deer Ticks      0.6       3 hours          Yes         70%      All ticks searched for an exit
                ppm       60 hours                     100%     until they succumbed.
Fruit Flies     0.3       72 hours      Not noted      100%
                ppm
                                               IQ

    House       Fly   0.5         7 days           N/A        100%      100 pupae expected to hatch
    Pupae             ppm                                               within 3 days. Did not hatch
                                                                        at all within one week.
    Tarantula         0.6        24 hours          No           0%      Appeared resistant. Did not
                      ppm                                               react to the gas, suggesting
                                                                        possession of protective
                                                                        enzymes.
    Termites          0.1        24 hours         Yes,         100%     Very low exposure caused
                      ppm                       Then went               the termites to cease activity
                                                 dormant                and seek shelter, where they
                                                                        went dormant. Larger
                                                                        concentrations should kill.
    Wolf Spiders      1.0         1 hour           Yes        100%      Very susceptible; and
                      ppm                                               general observation
    Example 3: Real World Testing of PHPG for the Control ofArthropod Species:
    [00118] In November 2012, the effects of PHPG gas treatment according to the present
    disclsure was performed on a 1400 sq ft Pool House that had not been maintained for years.
    Prior to testing, the primary function was for storage and the very occasional guest. Window
  5 seals were cracked and therefore air leakage throughout the space was increased. Initially
    there was some mold present on the wall with an "in window" air conditioning unit. Prior to
    the initiation of testing, the space itself was cleared out and swept clean. No chemicals or
    cleaners were used at any time in this space for weeks prior to testing. There was no cleaning
    or dusting of the exposed rafters, kitchen cabinets, drawers, closets or the HVAC system that
 .0 was not operational for years. A space heater was included to maintain the temperature
    above 60 degrees 'F. Two 14" x 12" by 12" PHPG generating devices comprising a filters,
    fan, bulb, and a PHPG generating sail (See, U.S. Patent No. 8,168,122, U.S. Patent No.
    8,685,329, and U.S. Patent Application No. 61/988, 535). Two PHPG generating devices
    were placed in the space for an initial cleansing and to establish levels. After 27 hours, 109
15  arthropods were confirmed dead including crickets, ants, spiders, and house flies. The
    majority of the kills happened around the outer walls of the space with limited kills in the
    interior portions of the space. Observed concentration of PHPG, measured as provided in
    Example 1, at 27 hours was 0.4ppm. No live insects were observed.
    [00119] The effects of PHPG treatment of human lice was observed. After installing a
20  PHPG generating device, the child subject reported the end of itching within one hour. All
    signs of lice were eliminated and lice free within two days of the initiation of treatment.
                                                      20

  [00120] Additional observations of the effects of PHPG treatment of arthropod species was
  observed during the development of PHPG generating devices for the control of molds,
  bacteria, and viruses. The results and observations of these species is presented in Table 2
  Table 2: Observations on Arthropod Species in Real World Tests
  Organism         PHPG        Exposure      Attempt to    Percent       Observations
                   Level       Time          Flee?         Killed
  Crickets         0.4 ppm     21 hours          Yes         100%       Test conducted in Garden
                                                                        house. Tried to exit through
                                                                        HVAC Vents.
  House Flies      0.2 ppm     24 hours          Yes         100%       Flies exhibited frantic behavior
                                                                        and disorientation within 30
                                                                        minutes. First deaths within
                                                                        one hour. All died within day.
                                                                        TESTINg pupa
  Lice and nits    0.2 ppm     2 days           N/A          100%       Infested child reported end of
                                                                        itching within one hour.
                                                                        Bedding and other exposed
                                                                        items fully treated within two
                                                                        days.
  Mosquitoes       0.2 ppm     2 hours           Yes         100%       All mosquitoes that entered the
                                                                        environment immediately
                                                                        began searching for an exit,
                                                                        became disoriented, frantic,
                                                                        and then died within a couple
                                                                        of hours.
  Stink Bugs       0.3 ppm     24 hours          Yes         100%       Many dead bugs found around
                                                                        device.
  Yellow           0.3 ppm     1 day             Yes         100%       Test in attack where nest was
  Jackets    and                                                        hatching. All yellow jackets
  Nest                                                                  died and unhatched yellow
                                                                       jackets in the nest died.
5
                                                Anl

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method for controlling pests in food processing facility comprising: providing
Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) comprising less than 0.015 parts per million (ppm)
of ozone to said food processing facility at a final concentration of between 0.005 ppm to
5.0 ppm and maintaining said PHPG for a period of time sufficient to control said pests.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said pests are members of a phylogenetic class
selected from the group consisting of Insecta, Arachnida, Diplopoda, and Chilopoda.
3.      The method of claim I or 2, wherein said pests are members of the phylogenetic
orders selected from the group consisting of Diptera, Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, and
Hymenoptera.
4.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said food processing facility is
selected from the group consisting of an abattoir. a fish cannery, a food distribution center, a
food packaging plant, a grocery store, a restaurant, and a rendering plant.
5.      The method of any one of claims I to 4, wherein said food processing facility is a
grocery store and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 4. wherein said food processing facility is a
restaurant and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
7.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said food processing facility is an
abattoir and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
8.      The method of any one of claims I to 4, wherein said food processing facility is a
food packaging plant and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
9.      The method of any one of claims I to 4, wherein said food processing facility is a
rendering plant and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
10.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said food processing facility is a
fish cannery and said pests are members of the orders Diptera or Hymenoptera.
                                               41

11.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said controlling of said pests is
selected from the group consisting of cessation of all activity, regurgitation of a recent meal,
laying of an immature egg, laying of a mature egg, hatching of an immature egg, death of a
nymph, searching for an exit from said PHPG containing environment, exiting from said
PHPG containing environment, searching for a source of non PHPG air, locating to a source
of non PHPG containing air, exhibiting frantic behavior, becoming disoriented, death of a
pest egg, death of a pest pupae, death of a pest larva, death a mature pest, and combinations
thereof.
12.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said pests are of the order Diptera
selected from the group consisting of Asphondylia spp., Bibio hortulanus, Calliphora
erythrocephala, Chironomus spp., Chrysomyia spp., Cordylobia anthropophaga,Culicoides
spp., Culiseta spp., Cuterebraspp., Dacus oleae, Dermatobiahoninis, Echinocnenus spp.,
Glossina spp., Haenatopotaspp., Hydrellia spp., Hyppobosca spp., Hypoderma spp.,
Lucilia spp., Lutzomia spp., Mansonia spp., Nezara spp., Oestrus spp., Pegonvia spp.,
Phlebotonus spp., Phormia spp., Prodiplosisspp., Rhagoletis spp., Sarcophagaspp.,
Sinuliuni spp, Stonoxys spp., Tannia spp., Tetanops spp., and combinations thereof.
13.      The method of any one of claims I to 11, wherein said pests are of the order Diptera
selected from the group consisting of Aedes spp. (mosquitoes), Agronyza spp. (leaf miner
flies), Anastrepha spp. (fruit flies), Anopheles spp. (mosquitoes), Batroceraspp. (fruit flies),
Ceratitisspp. (fruit flies), Chrysops spp. (deer flies), Cochlioinyia spp. (screwworms),
Contariniaspp. (gall midges), Culex spp. (mosquitoes), Dasineuraspp. (gall midges), Delia
spp., Drosophila spp. (vinegar flies), Fanniaspp. (filth flies), Hylem yia spp. (root maggots),
Liriomyza spp. (leafminer flies), Musca spp. (muscid flies), Phorbiaspp., Tabanus spp.
(horse flies), Tipula spp. (crane flies), and combinations thereof.
14.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said pests are of the order Diptera
selected from the group consisting of Anastrepha spp. (fruit flies), Batroceraspp. (fruit
flies), Ceratitisspp. (fruit flies), Drosophilaspp. (vinegar flies), Musca spp. (muscid flies),
and combinations thereof.
15.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein said controlling of said pests is
selected from the group consisting of cessation of all activity, searching for an exit from said
PHPG containing environment, exiting from said PHPG containing environment, searching
                                                42

for a source of non PHPG air, locating to a source of non PHPG containing air, exhibiting
frantic behavior, becoming disoriented, and combinations thereof.
16.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 15, further comprising controlling mold.
17.      A method for controlling insects and molds in a grocery store or a restaurant
comprising:
     providing Purified Hydrogen Peroxide Gas (PHPG) to said grocery store or restaurant to
         prepare an environment having PHPG gas at a final concentration of between 0.005
         and 1.0 parts per million; and
     maintaining said final concentration of PHPG in said environment for a time period
         sufficient to control said insects and molds.
18.      The method of claim 17, wherein said insects are selected from the group consisting
of Diptera, Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, and combinations thereof.
19.      The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein said insects are Diptera selected from the
group consisting of Anastrepha spp. (fruit flies), Batrocera spp. (fruit flies), Ceratitisspp.
(fruit flies), Drosophilaspp. (vinegar flies), Musca spp. (muscid flies), and combinations
thereof.
20.       The method of any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein said controlling of said insects is
selected from the group consisting of cessation of all activity, searching for an exit from said
PHPG containing environment, exiting from said PHPG containing environment, searching
for a source of non PHPG air, locating to a source of non PHPG containing air, exhibiting
frantic behavior, becoming disoriented, and combinations thereof.
21.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein said provided PHPG is prepared
from ambient air having a relative humidity of between 5% and 99%.
22.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein said PHPG is provided to said
environment by a PHPG generating device that is a stand-alone device or is a component of
a climate control system.
23.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said PHPG containing
environment comprises a PHPG concentration of between 0.05 parts-per-million (ppm) and
1.0 ppm.
                                                 43

24.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein said PHPG is provided
continuously to said environment.
25.    The method of any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein said pest comprises two or more
populations of insects.
                                           44

