                                           ABSTRACT
A baccarat game apparatus (200) comprising: a processor (202) for executing a game program
(21 0) for outputting a game interface; arranging game elements into a subset of element
positions; determining (500) which one of Player side and Banker side the player has selected
when placing the wager, thereby determining the player's win prediction; determining (50 4)
which of the Player hand and the Banker hand is a winning hand for a payline; determining
(5 0 8) a number of paylines for which the Player hand is a winning hand, thereby determining
a number of Player hand wins; determining (5 0 8) a number of paylines for which the Banker
hand is the winning hand, thereby determining a number of Banker hand wins; determining
(5 1 0 ) a payout to provide to the player based on (i) the player's win prediction and (ii) one
of the number of the Player hand wins and the number of Banker hand wins.
14266903/P242969D1

                                                   1
                         AN ELECTRONIC GAME OF BACCARAT
 Corresponding Cases
 [0101]       This patent application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
 No. 2015312056, which entered the National Phase on 23 August 2016 from PCT
 Application No. PCT/US2015/048003, which was filed on 1 September 2015 and which
 claims priority both from US 62/044661 which was filed on 2 September 2014, and from US
 62/076660 which was filed on 7 November 2014, all of which applications are herein
 incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
 Copyright Notice
 [0102]      A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is
 subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the
facsimile reproductionby anyone of the patentdocument or the patent disclosure,as it appears
 in the Patentand Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all
 copyright rights whatsoever.
 Brief Description of the Figures
  [0103]      Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a gaming
 system in accordance with one or more embodiments described herein.
  [0104]      Figure 2A is a block diagram of an embodiment of a gaming apparatus
 useful in at least some embodiments described herein.
 [0105]       Figure 2B is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a gaming apparatus
 useful in at least some embodiments described herein.
 [0106]       Figures 3A-3JJ are illustrations of example paylines which may be utilized to
 in one or more embodiments described herein.
 14266723/P242969D1

                                                    2
[01071           Figure 4 is an illustration of an example Graphical User Interface for an electronic
baccarat game utilizing multiple paylines, in accordance with one or more embodiments
described herein.
[0108]           Figure 5 is a flowchart illustrating a process according to one or more
embodiments described herein.
Detailed Description of Example Embodiments
I.       Introduction
[0109]           Described herein are various embodiments of an inventive electronic (e.g., online)
baccarat game which provides for a new kind of betting opportunity, and systems for managing a
graphical user interface (GUI) to facilitate a player's interactions with an application for
facilitating the electronic baccarat game. In accordance with some embodiments, the baccarat
game provides for a plurality of paylines and allows players to place a wager on either a Banker
side or a Player side and receive a payout or award based on the number of Banker or Player
wins among the plurality of paylines. In one embodiments, a total of 288 paylines is provided.
In another embodiment, a total of 239 paylines is provided. However, any number of paylines
may be implemented and the embodiments described herein are not dependent on any particular
number of paylines. However, it should be noted that if more than a handful of paylines is
utilized (e.g., more than three), manually determining the winning side for each payline and the
appropriate payout for the game instance would be impractical within a reasonable amount of
time. However, a specially programmed gaming apparatus may perform such payline
evaluations and payout calculations almost instantaneously for even a significantly large number
of paylines (e.g., over 50 paylines), thus allowing for an exciting game with many winning
possibilities that can be resolved efficiently and allow for a smooth game flow.
[0110]           In one embodiment, each payline comprises its own baccarat hand consisting of a
set of element positions (e.g., six element positions per payline), with a first subset of element
positions of each hand attributable to the Banker side and a second subset of element positions of
each hand attributable to the Player side (e.g., three element positions attributable to the Banker
side and three element positions attributable to the Banker side). In accordance with some
embodiments, a player selects a side when making a wager: Banker or Player. For each hand or

                                                 3
payline, six cards are determined (e.g., in a multiple row configuration in accordance with some
embodiments, such as a three row matrix), with three of the six cards being attributable to the
Player side and three being attributable to the Banker side, the six cards being placed within the
element positions along each payline. In some embodiments or circumstances, less than three
cards for at least one of the Banker side and the Player side may be determined and/or placed, as
explained elsewhere herein. At the resolution of a given game event (when all element positions
have been populated with cards or at least when all elements and positions thereof have been
determined, even if they have not yet been placed or revealed to the player), the number of
Banker wins and the number of Player wins are determined. In accordance with one
embodiment, each payline is individually evaluated for either a Banker win, a Player win or a Tie
and the player is paid based on the number of wins attributable to the side on which the player
wagered on (in some embodiments the player is also rewarded to some extent for Ties, as
described elsewhere herein). In one example embodiment, if a player had selected Banker side
when placing the wager, the player would be paid a first amount if the number of Banker side
wins for a particular game instance was a first number (e.g., a first number within a first range of
numbers, in a tiered payout schedule), a second amount if the number of Banker side wins for the
particular game instance was a second number (e.g., a first number within a second range of
numbers), etc. In one example embodiment, a player may be provided with what is referred to
as a primary payout based on the specific number of wins attributable to the side on which he
selected for the wager (Banker or Player) and then a further bonus payout or other prize based on
what range, tier or level that number of wins fits into (e.g., the higher the number of wins, the
more valuable the prize(s) available). Such an embodiment is described in more detail herein
with reference to Figure 4.
[0111]          Some other bonus wagers (examples of which are described below) may also be
made available in different versions of the game. As described below, the examples of 288
possible wins or the 239 possible wins for a given side as well as the particular numbers of rows
or cards in each row in a game interface are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not
intended to be limiting. The embodiments described herein are not limited to any particular

                                                   4
number of possible wins (i.e., paylines), any particular number of rows of element positions or
any particular number of element positions in a given row.
[0112]            In accordance with one embodiment, a game interface comprises a game symbol
matrix (also referred to as a symbol matrix herein) which includes a plurality of positions, each
position for displaying a respective game element or symbol of the game (e.g., a card of the
baccarat game). The terms "element" and "symbol" are used interchangeably herein to refer to
an image, character or other indicium of the game, used to indicate a result of the game. In
accordance with one embodiment, the symbol matrix may be arranged such that there are three
(3) rows, each row comprising six (6) element positions. In one embodiment, at the initiation of
a new game event (e.g., dealing of a new set of hands of the baccarat game, by populating each
of the symbol positions of the matrix with cards), three (3) rows of cards are dealt, each row
having six (6) cards. Of course, the number of rows and the number of cards in each row may be
modified and the embodiments described herein are not dependent on any particular number of
rows or cards in a row.
[01131            In some hands, not all available card positions (e.g., not all six (6) card positions)
of a given hand may be needed to determine a winning side for the hand. For example, in
accordance with some rules for a baccarat game, initially only two (2) cards are dealt to the
player side and two (2) cards are dealt to the banker side and a third card may not be dealt or
needed in order to determine whether the banker side or the player side wins the hand (e.g., it
may be, based on the initial four (4) cards dealt, that the player side is dealt a natural 8 or 9 and is
the winning side). Or, similarly, although three (3) cards may be dealt face-down for each side,
only two (2) cards of each side may be flipped over or otherwise revealed to determine a point
value for each side and the third card may initially remain face-down. For example, even if three
(3) cards are dealt to each of the player side and the banker side, in some circumstances only two
(e.g., the first two) cards may be utilized to determine a respective value for each side and
therefore a winning side for the hand. In embodiments in which the fifth or sixth card is not
needed or desired to be dealt to complete a hand (or such card(s) is/are dealt but is/are not
utilized to determine a winning side for the hand, and perhaps not initially revealed to the
player), such a position may be utilized to effectuate a bonus or secondary feature for the game.
For example, in accordance with one embodiment, any four or five card hands will be given an
extra card with a value of 0 (10, J, Q, or K) to  complete the six card hand. In another

                                                  5
embodiment, the fifth or sixth card in a hand may be populated with a random value to be
utilized as a multiplier for any prize or payout won as a result of that hand. Other secondary or
bonus features which may be implemented for a game, whether by utilizing such a fifth or sixth
card position which is not being utilized to determine a point value for a banker side or a player
side, are described elsewhere herein.
[0114]           Returning now to a description of the base game (which has a plurality of possible
paylines, such as the example 288 paylines resulting from a three-by-six matrix described above)
players will wager on either Banker or Player (the two different "sides" available in the game)
and will be paid from a paytable based on how many of the wagered side wins there are. For
example, in one embodiment if the number of wins for the side wagered on by the player is
within a first range of numbers, the player's payout is based on a first category of payout,
amounts or odds while if the number of wins for the side wagered on by the player is within a
second range of numbers, the player's payout is based on a second category, amount or odds.
Figures 3A - 3JJ illustrate 288 possible paylines which may be utilized in one embodiment of a
baccarat game and Figure 4 illustrates two example payout schedules which may be utilized to
calculate a payout for a game instance.
[01151           In accordance with some embodiments, a determination of whether, in a hand or
set of cards (e.g., six cards) in a game of baccarat consistent with the embodiments described
herein, the Banker side wins or the Player side wins (or whether there is a Tie) may be based on
a valuation of the cards in accordance with the traditional rules of valuating a hand in baccarat.
For example, each card dealt to the Banker side (i.e., the Banker hand) and each card dealt to the
Player side (i.e., the Player hand) may be attributed a point value as follows: (i) cards having the
numerals two (2) through nine (9) depicted thereon may have their face value in points (e.g., a
card with a "2" on it is worth 2 points towards a final point value of the hand, a card with a "3"
on it is worth 3 points towards a final point value of the hand, etc.); (ii) cards having 1Os, Js, Qs
and Ks may have a zero point value (i.e. are worth zero points); and (iii) Aces may have a 1 point
value (Jokers may, in some embodiments, not be used in the game). Further, each of the Banker
hand and the Player hand may be valued by summing the point value of each card comprising the
respective hand according to the rightmost digit of the sum of their constituent cards: for
example, a hand consisting of 2 and 3 is worth 5, but a hand consisting of 6 and 7 is worth 3 (i.e.
the 3 being the rightmost digit in the combined points total: 13), such that the highest possible

                                                  6
hand value in Baccarat is 9. The hand with the highest point value (or the point value closest to
9) may be considered the winning hand (e.g., if Banker hand has a value of 7 and Player hand
has a value of 9, the Player side is determined to be the winning hand or winning side). Of
course, any desired scheme for valuing hands, point system for attributing value to cards
comprising a hand of other mechanism for determining a winning side or a winning hand may be
implemented. The above methodology is provided as an example only and the embodiments
described herein are not dependent on any particular method for determining whether the Player
side or the Banker side wins a given hand or game event in a game of baccarat.
[01161          It should be noted that, in accordance with some embodiments, the payouts for
Banker side wins and Player side wins may be determined in accordance with odds consistent
with the odds used in traditional games of baccarat. For example, a payout for a Banker side win
may be paid 1:0.95 while a payout for a Player side win may be paid 1:1 in a commission
structure in which the house takes a commission. Or, in a no commission structure, the payout
odds for a Banker side wins may be adjusted such that a Banker side win may be paid 1:1, except
on a Banker side win of 6, in which case the payout odds would be 1: 0.50. The Banker side win
odds are adjusted in a no commission structure such that the odds of the game are not impacted.
Thus, for example, a $100 Banker wager that wins gets paid back the original $100 and an
additional $100 or $100 profit on any Banker win of 1,2,3,4,5,7,8,9 while a Banker wager of
$100 with a win of $100 pays back the original $100 and an additional $50 or $50 profit on a
banker win of 6. Player payouts do not change. It should be understood that any payout odds
may be used in a baccarat game consistent with embodiments described herein; the above odds
scheme are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not to be taken in a limiting fashion.
[01171          The determination of which card to deal into each row or hand of cards may be
based on one or more sources. For example, in one embodiment a random number generator
(comprising software and/or hardware for selecting cards to be dealt for a hand or other game
event on a random or pseudo-random basis) may be utilized to determine the cards to be dealt as
an outcome of a hand, bet or other game event for a video baccarat game as described herein. In
another embodiment, "live game play data" may be a source for determining the cards. Live
game play data may comprise data indicating cards dealt (simultaneously or essentially
simultaneously, such as within the past predetermined period of time, such as within the past
thirty (30) minutes or less) on one or more physical tables (e.g., cards dealt from a physical shoe

                                                    7
at the table or manually dealt by a dealer). The live game play data may include, for example, an
indication of at least one of (i) an outcome determined for a respective one or more hands, bets
or other game events; (ii) a result determined for a respective one or more hands, bets or other
game events (e.g., a payout won, an indication of a winner for a hand, bet or other game event),
(iii) a rank or characteristic of a hand, bet or other game event; (iv) a suit, rank or other
characteristic of a card or other game indicia output for a respective one or more hands, bets or
other game events; (v) the one or more cards or other game indicia output for a respective one or
more hands, bet or other game events. It should be noted that there may be some overlap in the
scope of the examples listed above (e.g., an indication of an outcome in a card game may
comprise an indication of a card comprising the outcome).
[01181           Live table games generally include a live dealer that deals randomly-ordered
physical playing cards to players seated at a physical gaming table, and involves the use of
physical gaming chips for wagering by the players at the gaming table during the play of the
game.     A live table game may also involve an automated system for dealing physical playing
cards to players seated at a physical gaming table but without a live dealer present (e.g., the
physical table may provide for a remote dealer or software which simulates a dealer).
[0119]           In accordance with some embodiments, live game play data may be obtained
through wager detections systems, which may include at least one of hardware and software for
identifying, storing, analyzing and/or transmitting events (e.g., results, outcomes, wagers, etc.)
which have occurred during or in association with a live table game. For example, a wager
detection system may include at least one of (i) RFID tagged gaming chips and corresponding
RFID sensing devices; (ii) one or more card reading devices; (iii) a camera positioned to capture
card images for detection; (iv) an optical reader incorporated in a gaming table; (v) an automated
shuffling device and a playing card shoe (e.g., an electronic shoe which is operable to
communicate with a processor to indicate at least one of an outcome or result of a wager and/or
the game symbols comprising an outcome for a wager); (vi) Near Field Communication (NFC)
protocols; and (vii) proximity card technology. Once received or otherwise determined, the live
game play data may be stored, processed, analyzed, selected and/or communicated as repurposed

                                                     8
game play data for display on one or more player devices through any appropriate wired or
wireless communication hardware and software technology.
[0120]          In one embodiment, a source of live game play data may comprise a table selected
by a player. For example, in one embodiment a player may be requested, upon initiating a new
game, to indicate whether (s)he is wagering on a Player side or a Banker side. The system may
then determine, based on live game play data, a plurality of live tables with active trends on the
selected side, whether Player or Banker. The live game play data may be for tables within a
single gaming establishment or for tables across multiple gaming establishments. A
representation or indication of the identified tables may then be presented to the player (or a
subset of the identified tables, if there is a large number of tables identified as having trends on
the selected side). The player may then be provided with an opportunity to select a specified
number of the tables with active trends (e.g., one, two or three tables, depending on the number
of hands being played in the base game) and the cards dealt in the next hands (or the outcomes of
the next hands dealt) on the selected tables will comprise the cards dealt in the initial game being
played by the player.
[0121]          The systems, processes and articles of manufacture described herein may be
operable to utilize the live game play data as repurposed game play data to provide games or
wagering opportunities at one or more of player devices. The wagering opportunities or games
so provided may be based on, or simulations of, the live game play data of the underlying game
or original game from which the data originated. In one embodiment, the systems, methods and
articles of manufacture described herein may be operable to provide additional wagering games
or opportunities which differ from the underlying or original game based upon which the game
data was determined.
[0122]          In yet another example, a source for cards to be dealt in a virtual baccarat game
may comprise "historical game play data". Historical game play data may comprise, for
example, data indicating cards dealt (or any of the other data types described with respect to live
game play data) which was determined at a physical table (or electronic baccarat device) more
than a predetermined period of time ago (e.g., more than thirty (30) minutes ago, which has been
stored in a database or other memory mechanism. A system controller, which may take any form,
including one or more general purpose computers, specific purpose computers or servers, may
receive, determine, store, analyze, categorize, select and/or repurpose the live game play data for

                                                  9
one or more additional wagering opportunities on a player device (e.g., a dedicated device for
outputting a virtual baccarat game or a non-dedicated device such as a smart phone or tablet
computer, on which software for facilitating the baccarat game has been installed). Various
examples of player devices are described herein with respect to Figure 1.
[0123]          In accordance with some embodiments, one or more bonus games or versions of
the game may be provided. Below are some non-limiting examples of different variations of a
baccarat game consistent with one or more embodiments described herein.
[0124]          In one variation of a baccarat game consistent with embodiments described
herein, for each row of symbol positions in a symbol matrix (e.g., for each of 3 rows), only a
subset of the symbol positions are populated based on cards determined by the system (e.g.,
based on cards determined from an RNG, live game play data or historical game play data). For
example, four or five cards in each row may initially be populated.
[01251          In some embodiments in which only a subset of the symbol positions for a given
row are initially populated, a player may be provided with an opportunity to pick the one or two
cards (which are face down when the player selects them, such that the player is not aware of the
value of the cards) to fill the remaining one or more symbol positions in each row which are not
filled with cards based on an initial dealing of cards for the hand. For example, the player may
be allowed to select the one or two cards needed to complete four and five card hands to make
them six card hands. For example, once the initial deal of the four or five cards is output to the
player the player may be provided with an interface on which is output a matrix of available face
down cards for the player's selection (e.g., the benefit or value of the card may be revealed to the
player after the player selects the card). In some embodiments, the point value of these cards
will be 0, however some of them will also have a benefit (e.g., a multiplier) associated with
them. The benefit (e.g., multiplier) associated with a selected card may be applied to a result of
the hand in which the card is placed or to a total result for the hand or game event. In one
embodiment, the benefit may comprise a value or number to be applied (e.g., multiplied or
added) to a number of wins on the side (e.g., Banker or Player) on which the player wagered.
For example, a player may pick a card revealed to be associated with a 6X multiplier to be
applied to the win count corresponding to the hand(s) or payline(s) in which the card is included,
such that if the player had bet on the Banker side and the Banker side wins for the hand in which
the card associated with the 6X multiplier is included, the player would get a count of 6 extra

                                                  10
wins attributed to the number of Banker side wins to help increase their total payout for the hand
or game event being resolved. Alternatively, a card may be revealed to operate on a win count
by causing a specified number of extra wins to be added to a win count associated with the
payline(s) in which it is included (e.g., the card is revealed to add 5 wins to the hand in which it
is included). In another example, the benefit associated with a card may comprise a multiplier to
be applied to a payout won by the player based on the number of wins on the side (e.g., Banker
or Player) on which the player wagered. For example, if a card selected by a player is associated
with a 2X multiplier and the player is to otherwise receive a payout of 100 credits, the result of
the 2X multiplier being applied is that the player receives a payout of 200 credits.
[0126]          In another variation of a baccarat game consistent with embodiments described
herein, a player may be provided an opportunity to not only wager on a side (e.g., Banker or
Player) but also to wager (e.g., for an additional wager amount) on the exact range of the number
of Banker or Player wins. The range may be customized by the player or selected from a menu
of available predetermined ranges available in the game. If the final outcome of the game event
(e.g., the number of wins for the side wagered on by the player) falls within the range selected by
the player, the player may receive a higher payout than they would have received if merely
placing the basic wager. If the outcome does not fall within the selected range the wager (e.g.,
the entire wager amount or just the wager amount attributable to the selected range) is lost.
[01271          In yet another variation of a baccarat game consistent with embodiments
described herein, a player may be provided an opportunity to place a side wager in addition to
the base game wager, the side wager being on a certain combination of game indicia being
output on one or more paylines. The player may thus may be eligible to receive a given bonus
payout for all pay lines that achieve the bonus pay outcome(s) of the side wager (e.g., Royal
Flush, Straight Flush, 6 of a kind, 5 of a kind, 4 of a kind with a kicker, etc.). In another example
of a side wager which may be made available, a player may be provided an opportunity to make
a side wager in addition to the base game wager and receives a bonus payout for all pay lines that
achieve a 6 of a Kind, with a Progressive win for 6 8's. In yet another example of a side wager
which may be made available, a player may be provided an opportunity to make a side wager in
addition to the base game wager and receives a bonus payout for all pay lines that achieve a 6
Aces and if all 6 Aces are Diamonds they win a Progressive. In yet another example of a side
wager which may be made available, a player may be provided an opportunity to make a side

                                                   11
wager in addition to the base game wager and receives a bonus payout for all pay lines that
achieve a certain criteria such as including a predetermined number of cards comprising a
predetermined characteristic (e.g., for lines which include at least 4 Red Aces or 4 Red 8s); for
example a bonus may be paid for 4, 5, or 6 Red Aces or 4 Red 8s on a payline. In another
variation, a bonus may be paid whenever a predetermined number of dealt cards are of a same
suit and/or color (e.g., if 18 dealt cards of the base game are red (i.e. hearts and/or diamonds). In
one embodiment, a bonus won may be a multiple of a player's total wager (e.g., 5X).
[0128]           In one embodiment, a bonus event may comprise a randomly occurring event or
an event which is triggered upon an occurrence of a qualifying condition, which may be
independent from the base game. For example, the system may determine (e.g., based on a
random, pseudo-random or weighted random algorithm) whether to include a Super Bonus
Multiplier for a game or hand upon an initiation of each new game event (e.g., each time a player
actuates a "deal" mechanism on a game interface, thus initiating a new dealing of cards into the
game interface). Such a Super Bonus Multiplier event may, if it is implemented for a particular
game, hand or card, cause an increase in the player's total win on (i) a given game or (ii) on any
winning combination or payline that includes the particular card or symbol position affected by
the Super Bonus Multiplier. In one embodiment, the multiplier to be applied to the win amount
may comprise a value which is (i) predetermined and the same for all game events in which it is
applied (e.g., it is always a 5X multiplier); (ii) based on one or more characteristics of a wager,
game or player (e.g., based on a wager magnitude, an average wager amount of a player, a rate of
play maintained by the player, a category of a player or a current level of the game); or (iii) is
determined or assigned at random (e.g., randomly selected from a range (e.g., from 2 to 24) or
from an available set of multipliers).
[0129]           In yet another variation of a baccarat game consistent with embodiments
described herein, a player may be provided an opportunity to place a fixed wager which includes
each of the 288 paylines (e.g., as illustrated in Figures 3A through 3JJ), plus a wager for a bonus
multiplier and a wager for a zero lines hit payback.
[0130]           Certain aspects, advantages, and novel features of various embodiments of a
baccarat game are described herein. For example, an electronic baccarat game in accordance
with at least some embodiments described herein allows lower bankroll players to enjoy the
game of baccarat more readily and allows for a baccarat game with more volatility, which may

                                                   12
be attractive to some players who do not currently prefer the low volatility of conventional
baccarat games. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved
in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus, for example, those skilled in the art will
recognize different embodiments may be implemented or carried out in a manner that achieves
one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other
advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.
[01311           Although several embodiments, examples and illustrations are disclosed below, it
will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the invention described herein extends
beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments, examples and illustrations and includes other
uses of the invention and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. Embodiments of the
invention(s) are described with reference to the accompanying figures, wherein like numerals
refer to like elements throughout. The terminology used in the description presented herein is
not intended to be interpreted in any limited or restrictive manner simply because it is being used
in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention(s). In
addition, embodiments of the invention(s) can comprise several novel features and it is possible
that no single feature is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or is essential to practicing
the invention(s) herein described.
[0132]           Throughout the description that follows and unless otherwise specified, the
following terms may include and / or encompass the example meanings provided in this section.
These terms and illustrative example meanings are provided to clarify the language selected to
describe embodiments both in the specification and in the appended claims, and accordingly, are
not intended to be limiting. Other terms are defined throughout the present description.
[01331           A "game", as the term is used herein unless specified otherwise, may comprise
any game (e.g., wagering or non-wagering, electronically playable over a network) playable by
one or more players in accordance with specified rules. A game may be playable on a personal
computer online in web browsers, on a game console or terminal and/or on a mobile device such
as a smart-phone or tablet computer. A game may also be playable on a dedicated gaming
device (e.g., a slot machine-type of device in a brick-and-mortar casino). "Gaming" thus refers
to play of a game.
[0134]           A "wagering game", as the term is used herein, may comprise a game on which a
player can risk a wager or other consideration. A wager may comprise a monetary wager in the

                                                  13
form of an amount of currency or any other tangible or intangible article having some value
which may be risked on an outcome of a wagering game. "Gambling" or "wagering" refers to
play of a wagering game.
[01351           The term "game provider", as used herein unless specified otherwise, refers to an
entity or system of components which provides, or facilitates the provision of, games for play.
For example, a game provider may comprise a designer, manufacturer, supplier or retailer of the
game.
[0136]           The terms "information" and "data" , as used herein unless specified otherwise,
may be used interchangeably and may refer to any data, text, voice, video, image, message, bit,
packet, pulse, tone, waveform, and / or other type or configuration of signal and / or information.
Information may comprise information packets transmitted, for example, in accordance with the
Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) standard as defined by "Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification" RFC 1883, published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), Network
Working Group, S. Deering et al. (December 1995). Information may, according to some
embodiments, be compressed, encoded, encrypted, and / or otherwise packaged or manipulated
in accordance with any method that is or becomes known or practicable.
[01371           The term "indication", as used herein unless specified otherwise, may refer to any
indicia and / or other information indicative of or associated with a subject, item, entity, and / or
other object and / or idea. As used herein, the phrases "information indicative of' and "indicia"
may be used to refer to any information that represents, describes, and / or is otherwise
associated with a related entity, subject, or object. Indicia of information may include, for
example, a code, a reference, a link, a signal, an identifier, and / or any combination thereof and /
or any other informative representation associated with the information. In some embodiments,
indicia of information (or indicative of the information) may be or include the information itself
and / or any portion or component of the information. In some embodiments, an indication may
include a request, a solicitation, a broadcast, and / or any other form of information gathering and
/ or dissemination.
[0138]           The term "network component," as used herein unless specified otherwise, may
refer to a user or network device, or a component, piece, portion, or combination of user or
network devices. Examples of network components may include a Static Random Access

                                                  14
Memory (SRAM) device or module, a network processor, and a network communication path,
connection, port, or cable.
[01391           In addition, some embodiments are associated with a "network" or a
"communication network". As used herein, the terms "network" and "communication network"
may be used interchangeably and may refer to any object, entity, component, device, and / or any
combination thereof that permits, facilitates, and / or otherwise contributes to or is associated
with the transmission of messages, packets, signals, and / or other forms of information between
and / or within one or more network devices. Networks may be or include a plurality of
interconnected network devices. In some embodiments, networks may be hard-wired, wireless,
virtual, neural, and / or any other configuration of type that is or becomes known.
Communication networks may include, for example, one or more networks configured to operate
in accordance with the Fast Ethernet LAN transmission standard 802.3-2002@ published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). In some embodiments, a network may
include one or more wired and / or wireless networks operated in accordance with any
communication standard or protocol that is or becomes known or practicable.
[0140]           The term "player," as used herein unless specified otherwise, may refer to any
type, quantity, and or manner of entity associated with the play of a game. In some embodiments,
a player may comprise an entity (i) conducting play of an online game, (ii) that desires to play a
game (e.g., an entity registered and/or scheduled to play and/or an entity having expressed
interest in the play of the game - e.g., a spectator) and/or may (iii) that configures, manages,
and/or conducts a game. A player may be currently playing a game or have previously played the
game, or may not yet have initiated play - i.e., a "player" may comprise a "potential player"
(e.g., in general and/or with respect to a specific game). In some embodiments, a player may
comprise a user of an interface (e.g., whether or not such a player participates in a game or seeks
to participate in the game).
[0141]           Some embodiments described herein are associated with a "player device" or a
"network device". As used herein, a "player device" is a subset of a "network device". The
"network device", for example, may generally refer to any device that can communicate via a
network, while the "player device" may comprise a network device that is owned and/or
operated by or otherwise associated with a player. Examples of player and/or network devices
may include, but are not limited to: a Personal Computer (PC), a computer workstation, a

                                                   15
computer server, a printer, a scanner, a facsimile machine, a copier, a Personal Digital Assistant
(PDA), a storage device (e.g., a disk drive), a hub, a router, a switch, and a modem, a video game
console, or a wireless or cellular telephone. Player and/or network devices may, in some
embodiments, comprise one or more network components.
[0142]          A "game event", "event instance", "game instance", "hand" or "turn" is triggered
upon an initiation of, or request for, at least one result of the game by a player, such as an
actuation of a "start" or "deal" mechanism, which initiation causes an outcome to be determined
or generated (e.g., a random number generator is contacted or communicated with to identify,
generate or determine a random number to be used to determine a result for the event instance).
An event instance or turn may comprise an event instance or turn of a primary game or an event
instance or turn of a bonus round, mode or feature of the game. For example, actuation by a
player of a "deal" mechanism may cause an appropriate number of cards to be dealt to the player
for a new hand of a baccarat game.
[0143]          "Virtual currency" as the term is used herein unless indicated otherwise, refers to
an in-game currency that may be used as part of a game or one or more games provided by a
game provider as (i) currency for making wagers, and/or (ii) to purchase or access various in
game items, features or powers. References to an "award", "prize" and/or "payout" herein are
intended to encompass such in the form of virtual currency, credits, real currency or any other
form of value, tangible or intangible.
[0144]          A "credit balance", as the term is used herein unless indicated otherwise, refers to
(i) a balance of currency, whether virtual currency or real currency, usable for making wagers or
purchases in the game (or relevant to the game), and/or (ii) another tracking mechanism for
tracking a player's success or advancement in a game by deducting therefrom points or value for
unsuccessful attempts at advancement and adding thereto points or value for successful attempts
at advancement. A credit balance may be increased or replenished with funds external to the
game. For example, a player may transfer funds to the credit balance from a financial account or
a gaming establishment may add funds to the credit balance due to a promotion, award or gift to
the player.
[01451          Referring now to the figures, Figure 1 depicts a block diagram of an example
system 100 according to some embodiments. The system 100 may comprise a plurality of player
devices 102a - 102n in communication with a game server 110 via a network 104. For purposes

                                                 16
of brevity, any or all of the player devices 102a - 102n will be referred to as a player device 102
herein, even though the plurality of player devices 102a - 102n may include different types of
player devices (as described below). The game server 110 may also be operable to communicate
with or access a database 140 (which may comprise one or more databases and/or tables and
which may comprise a storage device distinct from (or be a component of) the game server 110).
It should be noted that in some embodiments database 140 may be stored on a game server 110
while in other embodiments database 140 may be stored on another computing device with
which game server 110 is operable to communicate in order to at least access the data in database
140 (e.g., another server device remote from game server 140, operable to determine outcomes
for an event instance of a game). In some embodiments a processor (e.g., one or more
microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal processors) of a player
device 102 and/or game server 110 may receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like
device), and execute those instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by
those instructions. Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs and /
or one or more scripts.
[0146]           In some embodiments a game server 110 and / or one or more of the player
devices 102 stores and / or has access to data useful for facilitating play of a game. For example,
game server 110 and/or a player device 102 may store (i) one or more probability databases for
determining one or more outcome(s) for an event instance, hand or turn of a game, (ii) a current
state or status of a game or game session (e.g., a number of wins for a particular side of a
baccarat game as compared to which side the player wagered on), (iii) one or more user
interfaces for use in a game, (iv) one or more game themes for a game and/or (v) profiles or other
personal information associated with a player of a game. It should be noted that in some
embodiments such data may be stored on the game server 110 and information based on such
data may be output to a player device 102 during play of a game while in other embodiments a
game program may be downloaded to a local memory of a player device 102 and thus such data
may be stored on a player device 102 (e.g., in encrypted or other secure or tamper-resistant
form).
[01471           A game server 110 may comprise a computing device for facilitating play of a
game (e.g., by receiving an input from a player, determining an outcome for a game, causing an
outcome of a game to be displayed on a player device, facilitating a wager and/or a provision of

                                                 17
a payout for a game). For example, the game server 110 may comprise a server computer
operated by a game provider or another entity (e.g., a social network website not primarily
directed at providing games). In some embodiments, the game server may determine an outcome
for game event of a game by requesting and receiving such an outcome from another remote
server operable to provide such outcomes. In some embodiments, the game server 110 may
further be operable to facilitate a game program for a game (e.g., a wagering game). In
accordance with some embodiments, in addition to administering or facilitating play of a game, a
game server 110 may comprise one or more computing devices responsible for handling online
processes such as, but not limited to: serving a website comprising one or more games to a player
device and/or processing transactions (e.g., wagers, deposits into financial accounts, managing
accounts, controlling games, etc.). In some embodiments, game server 110 may comprise two or
more server computers operated by the same entity (e.g., one server being primarily for storing
states of games in progress and another server being primarily for storing mechanisms for
determining outcomes of games, such as a random number generator).
[0148]           Turning now to a description of a player device 102, in accordance with some
embodiments a player device 102 may comprise a computing device that is operable to execute
or facilitate the execution of a game program and used or useful by an player for accessing an
casino or other electronic (e.g., online) game. For example, a player device 102 may comprise a
computing device dedicated to gaming, a desktop computer, computer workstation, laptop,
mobile device, tablet computer, Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) devices, cellular or other
wireless telephones (e.g., the AppleTM iPhoneTM), video game consoles (e.g., MicrosoftTM
XboxTM, Xbox OneTM, SonyTM PlaystationTM, and/or NintendoTM        WiiTM),  and/or handheld or
portable video game devices (e.g., NintendoTM Game BoyTM or NintendoTM DSTM). A player
device 102 may comprise and/or interface with various components such as input and output
devices (each of which is described in detail elsewhere herein) and, in some embodiments, game
server 110. A player device 102 may be a dedicated gaming device (e.g., a slot machine or video
terminal on a casino floor) or a non-dedicated gaming device (e.g., an iPadTM). It should be
noted that a game server 110 may be in communication with a variety of different types of player
devices 102.
[0149]           A player device 102 may be used to play a wagering or non-wagering game (e.g.,
a baccarat game) over a network and output information relating to the game to players

                                                   18
participating in the game (e.g., outcomes for an event instance of the game, qualifying for a
bonus round of the game, outcomes determined for a bet, a result of a bet, credit balance of
credits available for play of the game, etc.). Any and all information relevant to any of the
aforementioned functions may be stored locally on one or more of the player devices 102 and/or
may be accessed using one or more of the player devices 102 (in one embodiments such
information being stored on, or provided via, the game server 110). In another embodiment, a
player device 102 may store some or all of the program instructions for determining, for
example, (i) that an event instance or game instance (e.g., a dealing of cards for a baccarat game)
has been triggered or initiated (and, in some embodiments, communicating such a trigger or
initiation to game server 110), (ii) a result for a bet (e.g., which may comprise the payout won as
a result of the bet), and/or (iv) modifying a game interface to reflect events within the game. In
some embodiments, the game server 110 may be operable to authorize the one or more player
devices 102 to access such information and/or program instructions remotely via the network
104 and / or download from the game server 110 (e.g., directly or via an intermediary server such
as a web server) some or all of the program code for executing one or more of the various
functions described in this disclosure. In other embodiments, outcome and result determinations
may be carried out by the game server 110 (or another server with which the game server 110
communicates) and the player devices 102 may be terminals for displaying to an associated
player such outcomes and results and other graphics and data related to a game.
[01501           It should be noted that the one or more player devices 102 may each be located at
the same location as at least one other player device 102 (e.g., such as in a casino or internet
caf6) or remote from all other player devices 102. Similarly, any given player device may be
located at the same location as the game server 110 or may be remote from the game server 110.
It should further be noted that while the game server 110 may be useful or used by any of the
player devices 102 to perform certain functions described herein, the game server 110 need not
control any of the player devices 102. For example, in one embodiment the game server 110
may comprise a server hosting a website of an online casino accessed by one or more of the
player devices 102.
[01511           In one embodiment, a game server 110 may not be necessary or desirable. For
example, some embodiments described in this disclosure may be practiced on one or more player
devices 102 without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions described herein

                                                  19
as performed by a game server 110 and / or data described as stored on a game server 110 may
instead be performed by or stored on one or more player devices 102. Additional ways of
distributing information and program instructions among one or more player devices 102, a game
server 110 and / or another server device will be readily understood by one skilled in the art upon
contemplation of the present disclosure.
[0152]          Referring now to Figure 2A, illustrated therein is a block diagram of a gaming
apparatus 200 according to some embodiments. In some embodiments, the gaming apparatus
200 may be similar in configuration and / or functionality to any of the player devices 102
(Figure 1), gaming apparatus 250 (Figure 2B), the game server 110 (Figure 1) and/or another
device operable to facilitate the embodiments described herein. The gaming apparatus 200 may,
for example, execute, process, facilitate, and / or otherwise be associated with any of the
processes described herein (e.g., process 500 of Figure 5). In some embodiments, gaming
apparatus 200 comprises a dedicated gaming device, such as a console on a casino floor or a
handheld console for playing a game consistent with at least some embodiments described
herein. In other embodiments, gaming apparatus 200 may comprise a non-dedicated gaming
device, such as a personal computer or mobile device (e.g., smartphone) via which a player may
play a game consistent with at least some embodiments described herein. In yet other
embodiments, gaming apparatus 200 may comprise a server device operable to facilitate a game
consistent with embodiments described herein and operable to output information of the game
and receive input from the player (e.g., wager selection, request for initiation of a new game
event) via GUI output to a remote player device (e.g., via a web browser of the player device).
[0153]          The gaming apparatus 200 comprises a game controller 201, which may be a
combination of specialized software and/or hardware which together operate to facilitate an
electronic baccarat game in accordance with at least some embodiments described herein. In
accordance with some embodiments, the game controller 201 includes at least one processor 202.
Instructions and data to control operation of the processor 202 in accordance with at least some
embodiments may be stored in a memory 203. Processor 202 may be operable to communicate
with memory 203 in order to implement functionality described herein. The gaming apparatus
also includes an input/output (I/O) interface 204, meters module 206 and / or a Random Number
Generator (RNG) 208.

                                                  20
[01541          Fewer or more components and / or various configurations of the components
202, 203, 204, 206 and/or 208 may be included in the gaming apparatus 200 without deviating
from the scope of embodiments described herein. At least some of the components 202, 203,
204, 206 and/or 208 may be located outside of the game controller 201 in some embodiments.
In some embodiments, at least some of the components of the gaming apparatus 200 may be
distributed. For example, one or more of the components 202, 203, 204, 206 and 208 may be
provided remotely from the game controller 201 and/or gaming device 200.
[01551          In some embodiments, the gaming apparatus 200 may additionally comprise any
type or configuration of communication device (not shown) that is or becomes known or
practicable. For example, the gaming apparatus 200 may include a communication device such
as a Network Interface Controller (NIC), a telephonic device, a cellular network device, a router,
a hub, a modem, and / or a communications port or cable. In some embodiments, the
communication device may be coupled to provide data to a telecommunications device. The
communication device may, for example, comprise a cellular telephone network transmission
device that sends signals (e.g., an initiation of an event instance) to a server (e.g., game server
110) in communication with a plurality of player devices 102. According to some embodiments,
the communication device may also or alternatively be coupled to the processor 202. In some
embodiments, the communication device may comprise an IR, RF, BluetoothTM, and / or Wi-Fi@
network device coupled to facilitate communications between the processor 202 and another
device.
[0156]          According to some embodiments, the processor 202 may be or include any type,
quantity, and / or configuration of processor that is or becomes known. The processor 202 may
comprise, for example, an Intel@ IXP 2800 network processor or an Intel@ XEONTM Processor
coupled with an Intel@ E7501 chipset. In some embodiments, the processor 302 may comprise
multiple inter-connected processors, microprocessors, and / or micro-engines. According to some
embodiments, the processor 202 (and / or the gaming apparatus 200 and / or other components
thereof) may be supplied power via a power supply (not shown) such as a battery, an Alternating
Current (AC) source, a Direct Current (DC) source, an AC/DC adapter, solar cells, and / or an
inertial generator. In some embodiments (e.g., in an embodiment in which the gaming apparatus
202 comprises a server such as a blade server), necessary power may be supplied via a standard
AC outlet, power strip, surge protector, and / or Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) device.

                                                 21
[01571           In some embodiments, the components 203, 204, 206 and/or 206 may be
communicatively coupled to the processor 202 (e.g., via wired and / or wireless connections and
/ or pathways) and they may generally comprise any types or configurations of I/O, meters,
memory and RNG components and / or devices that are or become known, respectively.
[0158]           The memory device 203 may comprise any appropriate information storage
device that is or becomes known or available, including, but not limited to, units and / or
combinations of magnetic storage devices (e.g., a hard disk drive), optical storage devices, and /
or semiconductor memory devices such as Random Access Memory (RAM) devices, Read Only
Memory (ROM) devices, Single Data Rate Random Access Memory (SDR-RAM), Double Data
Rate Random Access Memory (DDR-RAM), Programmable Read Only Memory (PROM)
and/or Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM). Other examples of types of
information storage devices which may be utilized include Magnetoresistive Random Access
Memory (MRAM), flash RAM, Dynamic Access Memory (DRAM), Static Random Access
Memory (SRAM), flash memory and ferroelectric memory (F-RAM).
[0159]           The memory device 203 may, according to some embodiments, store a program
210 for facilitating one or more of the embodiments described herein, which program may
include a primary game program 21 Ga for facilitating a primary aspect of a game and a bonus
game program 210b for facilitating a bonus feature of the game, which may be relevant to some
embodiments. The memory device 203 further stores a game symbols database 212, which may
store individual game symbols (e.g., representations of individual cards for a baccarat game) or
sets of symbols (e.g., representations of possible hands of cards, to place along a payline of the
game). In some embodiments, game symbol database 212, the primary game program 210a
and/or the bonus game program 21Gb may be utilized by the processor 202 to provide output
information via a GUI (e.g., such as GUI 400 of Figure 4), to show to a player progress in a
game event.
[0160]           In some embodiments, additional programs or software modules may be stored in
memory device 208 or otherwise accessible to processor 202. In some embodiments, one or
more of the primary game program 21 Ga and the bonus round program 21Gb may comprise
various sub-programs, sub-routines or software modules for facilitating different functionality.
For example, any of an additional program, program 21 Ga and/or program 21Gb may be a stand
alone program or may be part of a program, or set of programs providing various services to a

                                                 22
user. For example, the gaming apparatus 200 may be facilitating a game event and within a
program 210a or 210b, a section or module is provided to facilitate a determining a result for a
baccarat game comprising a plurality of paylines and/or determining the appropriate payout
amount to provide to the player based on how many paylines had wins on the side (Player or
Banker) selected by the player for the wager, which program section(s) or modules may be
executed at a relevant time. In some embodiments, the memory device 203 may store an
additional program which is called by the primary game program 21 Ga or the bonus game
program 21Gb when required such that the same additional program can be used by multiple
programs. For example, the memory device 203 may store a "game engine" program to provide
core services which are utilized by a number of individual game programs to save duplication of
software code.
[0161]          The memory device 203 may, in accordance with some embodiments, comprise
different types of memory such as RAM, EPROM and/or a mass storage device. Different types
of memory may be utilized for different purposes. For example, (i) RAM may be utilized to
temporarily hold program files for execution by the processor 202 and related data; (ii) EPROM
may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or game related code; and (iii) a
mass storage device may be used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be verified
and/or authenticated by the processor 202 (e.g., by use of a program stored in another type of
memory, such as in EPROM memory).
[0162]          The I/O interface 204 may, in accordance with some embodiments, provide for
communicating with a player interface (e.g., a GUI such as GUI 400 of Figure 4) and/or one or
more peripheral devices of gaming apparatus 200 (in some embodiments, one or more of the
peripheral devices may be components of the player interface and the I/O interface 204 may
communicate with such devices indirectly, via the player interface). In accordance with some
embodiments, the I/O interface 204 and/or peripheral devices of the gaming apparatus 200 may
be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing associated instructions and data for use
with the player interface or the peripheral devices.
[0163]          In accordance with one embodiment, the I/O interface 204 may provide for
communication with an input device of the gaming apparatus 200. Such an input device may
comprise, for example, a keyboard or bank of user-actuatable selector mechanisms or buttons
that allow an operator of the gaming apparatus 200 to interface with the gaming apparatus 200

                                                  23
(e.g., by a player, an employee or other worker affiliated with either an online casino or other
entity operating a system which provides games to players). In some embodiments, such an input
device may comprise a mechanism configured to indicate to a remote server device an initiation
or triggering of an event instance (e.g., that a player has actuated a "deal" mechanism (e.g., a
"soft" or virtual button on an online game interface) and thus initiated a game event of a baccarat
game), such information being provided to the apparatus 200 and / or the processor 202. In such
embodiments, the input device may comprise a key or button on a keyboard or panel of the
gaming apparatus 200, a link or selectable area on a screen which is selectable by a mouse or
other selection mechanism or a touch-sensitive screen of a device. Other examples of input
devices include, but are not limited to: a game controller and/or gamepad, a bar-code scanner, a
magnetic stripe reader, a pointing device (e.g., a computer mouse, touchpad, and/or trackball), a
point-of-sale terminal keypad, a microphone, an infrared sensor, a sonic ranger, a computer port,
a video camera, a motion detector, a digital camera, a network card, a Universal Serial Bus
(USB) port, a GPS receiver, a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID or RF) receiver, a RF
receiver, a thermometer, a pressure sensor, and a weight scale or mass balance.
[0164]          In accordance with one embodiment, the I/O interface 204 may provide for
communication with an output device of the gaming apparatus 200. Such an output device may
comprise, for example, a display screen and / or other practicable output component and / or
device that is operable to output information. Such an output device may, for example, comprise
a display screen via which are output outcomes, instructions, guidance, questions or information
to a player of a game. For example, the output device may output a game interface for a game
which indicates an outcome of an event instance of the game, such as an outcome for a plurality
of hands of a baccarat game and/or a win result for a bet dependent on a result of a plurality of
hands or paylines. Some additional examples of output devices that may be useful in some
embodiments include a Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) monitor, a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)
screen, a Light Emitting Diode (LED) screen, a printer, an audio speaker, an Infra-red Radiation
(IR) transmitter, an RF transmitter, and/or a data port. According to some embodiments, an
input device and an output device may comprise and / or be embodied in a single device such as
a touch-screen display or screen.
[01651          The meters module 206 may comprise software and/or hardware operable to track
and report on player credit with respect to the gaming apparatus 200. Such information may be

                                                 24
desirable to track for various purposes such as ensuring regulatory compliance and determining
profitability of the gaming apparatus.
[0166]           The RNG 208 may comprise hardware and/or software operable to generate
and/or store random or pseudo-random numbers for use by the processor 202. For example, as
described herein, processor 202 may determine a random or pseudo-random number for use in
determining which game elements to place into the game element positions of a game interface
in order to indicate a result of a game event. In some embodiments a single random or pseudo
random number may be determined and used for a particular game instance which includes a
plurality of hands and/or paylines while in other embodiments an individual random or pseudo
random number may be determined and used for each hand or payline of a game instance which
includes a plurality of hands or paylines. For example, in one embodiment RNG 208 comprises
an algorithm which generates random or pseudo-random numbers for use in the game. In other
embodiments, gaming apparatus 200 may not include a local RNG and processor 202 may
instead obtain random or pseudo-random numbers from a remotely located RNG (e.g., an RNG
located at a remote server with which gaming apparatus is operable to communicate).
[01671           The gaming apparatus 200 may function as a computer terminal and / or server of
an online casino or other entity operating to provide online games, receive and/or manage
information related to online games. In some embodiments, the gaming apparatus 200 may
comprise an apparatus that is operable to interact with a player of an online game. In some
embodiments, gaming apparatus 200 may comprise a plurality of devices working together to
accomplish the functionality described herein with respect to Figure 2A.
[0168]           Any or all of the exemplary instructions and data types described herein and other
practicable types of data may be stored in any number, type, and / or configuration of memory
devices that is or becomes known. The memory device 203 may, for example, comprise one or
more data tables or files, databases, table spaces, registers, and / or other storage structures. In
some embodiments, multiple databases and / or storage structures (and / or multiple memory
devices 203) may be utilized to store information associated with the gaming apparatus 200.
According to some embodiments, the memory device 203 may be incorporated into and / or
otherwise coupled to the gaming apparatus 200 (e.g., as shown) or may simply be accessible to
the apparatus 200 (e.g., externally located and / or situated).

                                                   25
[01691           In some embodiments, the game controller 201 may further be operable to
communicate with one or more peripheral devices 209. Examples of such peripheral devices
include displays, touch screens, a bank of physical buttons of a gaming console, a card and/or
ticket reader, a printer, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism, and a currency output
mechanism.
[01701           In some embodiments, gaming apparatus 200 may include additional components
such as a communications interface which functions to allow the gaming apparatus 200 to
communicate with other components of a gaming system. For example, the gaming apparatus
200 may include a network card. The network card may, for example, send to and/or receive
from another device information, instructions and/or data. Such information, instructions and/or
data may relate to, for example, status (e.g., of a player and/or game) or accounting (e.g., for a
particular player and/or the gaming apparatus 200). Such other device may comprise, for
example, a specialized server device of a casino operator. Additional hardware may be included
as part of the gaming apparatus, or hardware may be omitted, as desired for the specific
implementation.
[01711           Referring now to Figure 2B, illustrated therein is an example gaming apparatus
250, which comprises an example of a player device embodied as a dedicated gaming apparatus,
such as may be found on a casino floor, which may specially function to provide at least some of
the embodiments described herein. In one embodiment, gaming apparatus 250 comprises a
player device 102 (Fig. 1) and/or gaming apparatus 200 (Fig. 2A).
[0172]           In accordance with some embodiments, the gaming apparatus 250 may include a
console 252 having a display 254 on which is displayed representations of a game 256 that can
be played by a player in accordance with the embodiments described herein. The display 254
may, in some embodiments, comprise a touch screen operable to receive input from a player. In
accordance with some embodiments, one or more areas of a GUI output to a player may
comprise respective input mechanisms, such as interactive virtual buttons on a touch screen
which allow a player to make selections or provide input to the game. In accordance with some
embodiments, the display 254 may be operable to output a GUI such as the example GUI 400
illustrated in Figure 4.
[0173]           Section 260 of the gaming apparatus 250 includes a set of input mechanisms a
bank of buttons 262. Mechanical buttons 262 comprise another example input mechanism for

                                                  26
enabling a player to interact with the gaming apparatus (e.g., to provide selections or input
during game play, such as selection of a wager and/or request for an initiation of a new game
instance or dealing of a plurality of hands into a game interface). Mechanical buttons 262 may
be used in place of or in addition to input mechanisms on a touch screen. Section 260 may also,
in some embodiment, include at least one monetary input mechanism 264 for allowing a player
to input currency, credit or other information (e.g., financial account information) in order to
establish funds with the gaming apparatus such that the player may wager on the game playable
on the gaming apparatus 250. For example, the at least one monetary input mechanism 264 may
comprise at least one of (i) a coin input chute; (ii) a bill collector; (iii) a card reader for reading a
smart card, debit card or credit card; (iv) am RFID reader device for reading information from an
RFID-enabled currency mechanism of the player (e.g., an RFID-enabled credit or debit card, an
RFID-enabled portable memory device which stores fund information for the player, etc.); and
(v) a ticket-in/ticket-out mechanism for receiving and/or outputting printed receipts or other
printed media which a player may utilize to establish funds with the gaming apparatus. In some
embodiments, section 260 may further include other components, such as a reading device
operable to read a player tracking card or other device (e.g., a magnetic stripe card, flash drive or
any other portable storage medium capable of being read by the reading device).
[0174]           A top portion 260 of the gaming apparatus 250 may output or have displayed
thereon, in area 272, artwork or information regarding the game. In the particular embodiment
of Figure 2B, area 272 is being utilized to output a bonus payout schedule consistent with some
embodiments described herein and corresponding to the example bonus payout schedule
included in area 406 of GUI 400 (Figure 4). Additional information and/or artwork may be
displayed or output on a front panel 280 of the console 252. In some embodiments, the console
252 may include additional components not illustrated in Figure 2B. For example, console 252
may include a coin tray, a ticket or receipt printer and/or a bill dispenser.
[01751           Referring now to Figures 3A through 3JJ, illustrated therein are 288 paylines
which may be utilized in an electronic baccarat game in accordance with one or more
embodiments described herein. Of course any number of paylines or hands greater than one may
be utilized, as desired, and the number 288 is utilized in the present description as merely one
illustrative example. As described herein, in accordance with some embodiments a player's

                                                 27
payout for a game event may be based on how many wins there are attributable to the side the
player wagered on (Player or Banker).
[01761           The paylines of Figures 3A through 3JJ illustrate a mechanism in accordance with
which cards displayed in a symbol matrix may be evaluated to determine, from a plurality of
possible paylines or hands dealt for a given game event or wager, the number of wins for the
Banker Side and the number of wins for the Player side. In accordance with one example
embodiment, each payline of Figures 3A through 3JJ is illustrated in the context of a symbol
matrix comprising six columns and three rows. Each of the rows represents symbol positions for
cards dealt to form a given hand. The first three symbol positions (left-to-right) of each row are
for cards attributable to the Banker side while the last three symbol positions of each row are for
cards attributable to the Player side. Each column may, in accordance with some embodiments,
be considered akin to a reel in a slot machine game, having element positions to be populated
with game elements or indicia comprising cards. In accordance with some embodiments, the
game elements to be placed into each hand or along each payline for a given game instance or
wager: (i) may be associated with their own electronic shoe (e.g., an 8 deck shoe) or RNG from
which the cards are dealt or determined for that hand; (ii) may be determined based on an distinct
output obtained from an electronic shoe or RNG (but the same electronic shoe or RNG may be
used to obtain more than one output for more than one payline); or (iii) may be determined based
on a single output from an electronic shoe or RNG for the whole of the wager or game instance
(e.g., individual hands may be determined based on the single RNG output via a different
process).
[01771           Once all six cards for each hand are determined (and, in some embodiments,
populated into the symbol matrix) in accordance with embodiments described herein, each of the
288 available paylines is evaluated to determine an appropriate payout to provide to the player,
based on the side on which the player wagered and the number of wins attributable to that side
based on the evaluation. Again, it should be noted that while 288 paylines are illustrated, other
numbers of paylines may be utilized, with the appropriate adjustments to the number of rows or
hands.
[01781           As can be appreciated from a review of Figures 3A through 3JJ, each payline 1
288 comprises a hand (consisting of three cards attributable to the Banker side and three cards
attributable to the Player side). To determine whether a hand is a Banker win or a Player win,

                                                 28
the three cards attributable to the Banker side along a given payline may be attributed a point
value (e.g., as described above, in some embodiments this may be done based on a traditional
baccarat game card valuing methodology) and the three cards attributable to the Player side
along a given payline may be attributed a point value. The point values for the Banker side are
then summed, as are the point values for the Player side. The highest point value sum, or the
point value sum closest to 9, may be considered the winning side. As can further be appreciated
from a review of the 288 example paylines illustrated in Figures 3A through 3JJ, although a
payline may comprise element positions which are adjacent to one another or diagonal to one
another (e.g., see paylines 32 - 36), a payline may also consist of element positions which are
not adjacent to one another (e.g., see paylines 287 and 288), thus allowing for a large number of
possible hands or paylines, which may result in a game of higher volatility.
[01791           As described herein, one mechanism for populating a symbol matrix may
comprise populating a single card into each symbol position of the matrix upon a game initiation
event (e.g., a player actuates a "deal" command in a game interface of the game). In such an
embodiment, some or all of the cards placed into symbol positions may initially be dealt face
down. In some embodiments, the values of the face-down cards may be revealed (e.g., the cards
may be virtually flipped over) initially only for a sub-set of the cards (e.g., for the first two cards
of each side). As also described herein, in some embodiments not all symbol positions may
initially be populated. For example, in one embodiment only two of the three symbol positions
attributable to a player side and two of the three symbol positions attributable to the banker side
for a given hand may initially be populated (e.g., an additional third card may be added to the
third available position of each hand if the player or game rules provide for a dealing of the third
card).
[0180]           In other embodiments, a process for populating a symbol matrix may be modified
in various other manners to add different features or interest to the game. For example, in
accordance with some embodiments, not all rows of a symbol matrix may be populated at the
initiation of a game and/or not all symbol positions may be populated based on a random or
pseudo-random algorithm. For example, in one embodiment only the symbol positions in a
subset of the rows may be initially populated with randomly determined cards (e.g., in a symbol
matrix comprising three rows, only the middle row may initially be populated with randomly
determined cards). The player may then be provided an opportunity to select a specified

                                                   29
predetermined number of cards to be held. Such player selection may be allowed after the values
of the dealt cards are revealed to the player or before. The number of cards a player is allowed to
hold may be configurable (e.g., by the game provider and/or based on a characteristic of the
wager, such as a magnitude of the wager). The number of cards a player is allowed to hold may,
in some embodiments, be the same for each of the player side and banker side. In other
embodiments, the number may be different for the player side and the banker side. Once the
player selects which cards are to be held, the held cards (or at least the values thereof) are
replicated into symbol positions of at least one other row of the symbol matrix (e.g., into both
the top row and the bottom row, in a three row matrix). Symbol positions which are not
populated with the held cards (or replications of the held cards) may then be populated via a
random or pseudo-random process. In another variation, a player may be allowed an opportunity
to select one card from all cards which are initially dealt face-down (e.g., nine cards populating
three hands may initially be dealt). In one embodiment, the player may only be allowed to select
a card from the side on which they wagered. The selected card may then be revealed (e.g.,
virtually flipped over) for the hand in which it was placed and also replicated into one or more
additional hands (e.g., all the remaining hands or the hands directly above and below), in the
symbol position in the same vertical column. The remaining cards may then be revealed and the
game outcome determined. In one embodiment, a player may be allowed to modify or switch a
position of a dealt card (e.g., after some or all of the placed cards have been revealed). For
example, in one embodiment a player may be provided with an opportunity to move one or more
cards (e.g., within a single hand or between hands) from a banker side to a player side or vice
versa. In one embodiment a time constraint may be used (limiting the amount of time a player
has to make such changes to card positions).
[01811           Other features may also be added to a baccarat game as described herein, to
provide for additional excitement, anticipation, interest and/or winning opportunities. For
example, in some embodiments one or more special designations for one or more cards or
symbol positions may be employed, the special designations corresponding to specific attributes,
functionalities or benefits to be provided during game play.
[0182]           In one embodiment in which a special card or designation is utilized to provide a
specific attribute, benefit or functionality to be provided during game play, a wild card feature
may be employed. A wild card may comprise a card or other game indicia (which may, in some

                                                  30
embodiments, be one of the regular cards in a deck of cards used in the game or in other
embodiments may be a special card not otherwise used in the deck) which is designated as
"wild", meaning that when this card is included in a hand it will take on the value that is
necessary to cause the hand to have a specified result, such as the value necessary to create a
natural win or a tie. In one embodiment, a wild on each side may be determined to create a tie, 1
wild on one side may be determined to create a win on that side; and in event there are 2 wilds
on one side and 1 wild on the other side, then the side with 2 wilds would win. In some
embodiments a particular card may be designated as a wild card for a game as part of the rules of
the game (e.g., there is a special "wild" card in the deck, all Jokers are "wild", all 4s are "wild"
or "4 of hearts" is "wild"). In other embodiments, which card is designated as wild may be
modified (e.g., a different card may be designated as wild at the beginning of each deal, each
hand, each session or another game event).
[01831          In another embodiment in which a special card or designation is utilized to
indicate a specific attribute, benefit or functionality to be provided during game play, a game
may include a possibility of a "lucky" symbol or designation to appear in some hands (e.g., in a
specific symbol position or otherwise in association with a specific symbol position or card). Of
course, the term "lucky" is utilized herein for illustrative purposes only and any name, term,
symbol or indication may be utilized to indicate that a particular card or symbol position is
associated with a special attribute, functionality or benefit and different terms or names may be
used to indicate different attributes, functionality or benefits. A "lucky" card or designation
may, for example, be an indication that the associated card (whether it be a specified card or any
card which is placed into such a specially designated symbol position) causes a bonus, benefit,
potential benefit, or additional winning opportunity to be provided to the player. For example, in
one embodiment a special symbol which designates a card as a "lucky" card may appear over a
card, on a card or in a symbol position (or otherwise in association with a card or symbol
position), thus indicating that the card in this symbol position corresponds to a special attribute
for purposes of a current hand (or, in other embodiments in which such a designation is
persistent for more than one hand, for purposes of a certain amount of time, a specified number
of hands, or until a certain condition is met).
[0184]          One example of a special attribute which may be indicated by an output of a
"lucky card" designation is that a multiplier n will be applied to any payout or other prize to

                                                 31
which the specially designated card contributes. The value of n may, in accordance with some
embodiments, (i) be a predetermined value; (ii) be a value which may be based on one or more
characteristics of a wager, game or player (e.g., based on a wager magnitude, an average wager
amount of a player, a rate of play maintained by the player, a category of a player or a current
level of the game); or (iii) be assigned at random (e.g., randomly selected from a range (e.g.,
from 2 to 24) or from an available set of multipliers).
[01851           Another example of a special attribute which may be indicated by an output of a
"lucky card" designation is an instant win type of reward, which causes an instant win of a
specified magnitude x to be provided to the player (e.g., regardless of whether the player wins
the hand in which the specially designated card is included or, in other embodiments, only if the
player wins the hand in which the specially designated card is included). The value x of the
instant win may be determined, for example, using any of the methodologies described above
with respect to the multiplier n.
[0186]           Yet another example of a "lucky card" attribute is that an appearance of the
"lucky card" designation causes an addition of value to a meter, progressive award or other
running count. For example, a particular "lucky card" designation may be a "Pot of Gold"
symbol which, when present, causes a deposit of virtual gold coins into a virtual pot (or vault or
virtual account) that is displayed on screen to the player, which the player may eventually win
based on other events in the game. For example, a game outcome may trigger a bonus round in
which the player may select symbols (cards, images, numbers, etc.) in order to determine the
amount of win for the bonus round, which amount may be based on the accumulated value in the
"Pot of Gold" prior to the triggering of the bonus round.
[01871           Another example of a special attribute which may be indicated by an output of a
"lucky card" designation is that the specially designated card functions to modify or adjust a
point value of a hand or side of a hand, as needed to cause the point value to be a specified point
value or within a specified category of hand results. For example, including such a specially
designated card in a hand may function to cause the value of the card to be changed or modified,
or take on a plurality of values (each respective value for purposes of calculating a point value
for a hand in which the card is included), such that every payline that includes the specially
designated card creates a point value of 9 for the side on which the player has placed a wager
(similar to the functionality of a wild card). In accordance with some embodiments, at least one

                                                   32
card is chosen at random from the dealt cards to be associated with such a designated
functionality.
[01881            Other variations and modifications to aspects of a baccarat game as described
herein may be implemented. For example, in one embodiment a game may only provide a
payout or win for a player for only a specified subset of possible winning outcomes. For
example, only natural wins (i.e., a hand with a value of 8 or 9) may qualify towards a payout and
all other outcomes are discarded. In one embodiment of such a variation, each natural win may
pay a multiplier based on the point value of the hand, whether 8 or 9, (such that an 8 might pay a
3 multiplier, and a 9 might pay a 4 multiplier). In some embodiments, there may also be a
payout for the overall number of natural wins or other qualifying wins.
[0189]            In accordance with some embodiments, systems, methods and articles of
manufacture (e.g., non-transitory computer-readable media) provide for: (i) providing an
interface for a game of baccarat, the interface comprising a symbol matrix comprising a plurality
of symbol positions arranged in a grid having a plurality of rows (e.g., three rows) and a plurality
of columns (e.g., six columns), each symbol position for placement of a single card, and further
wherein a predetermined number of symbol positions (e.g., six symbol positions) bearing a
predetermined positional relationship among one another comprise a payline such that a plurality
of paylines (e.g., 239 paylines) are formed within the symbol matrix and wherein a first subset of
the symbol positions along a given payline (e.g., the first three symbol positions left-to-right) are
attributable to a Banker side and a second subset of symbol positions along the given payline
(e.g., the last three symbol positions left-to-right) are attributable to the Player side, all of the
symbol positions along the given payline together constituting a hand of the baccarat game; (ii)
receiving an indication that a player has placed a wager on one of the Banker side and the Player
side; (iii) populating the symbol matrix with cards, such that a single card is placed into a single
symbol position, thereby facilitating a new game event of the game; (iv) evaluating each payline
to determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines, whether the Banker side or the Player
side wins the hand along the payline, thereby determining a first number of wins for the Banker
side in the game event and a second number of wins for the Player side in the game event; and
(v) determining a payout value to provide to the player based on (a) which side (Player or
Banker) the player wagered on, and (b) one of the first number or the second number.

                                                  33
[0190]           In accordance with some embodiments, populating the symbol matrix with cards
may comprise populating the symbol matrix based on data associated with at least one of (i) live
game play data; (ii) historical game play data; and (iii) an RNG. In accordance with some
embodiments, each hand of cards may be associated with at least one of its own electronic shoe
of cards or its own RNG or RNG output. In accordance with some embodiments, evaluating
each payline may comprise determining a first sum point value for the cards in the first subset of
symbol positions of the payline, determining a second sum point value for the cards in the
second subset of symbol positions of the payline and determining a win for the side
corresponding to the higher of the first sum point value and the second sum point value.
[0191]           Referring now to Figure 4, illustrated therein consistent with one embodiment
there is provided a graphical user interface (GUI) 400). The graphical user interface 400 is
arranged to display information regarding a program, software application or other element
associated with a computing device. In accordance with one embodiment, the GUI 400 is
associated with a program comprising one or more sub-routines, modules or functions. In one
embodiment, GUI 400 is associated with a program for facilitating an electronic baccarat game
consistent with at least some embodiments described herein and playable by a user via a player
device (e.g., a dedicated player device such as that illustrated in Figure 2B or a non-dedicated
player device such as a smart phone or tablet computer). For example, GUI 400 may be
associated with program 210 (Figure 2A), as described in more detail herein. In one more
specific example, in some embodiments a player device may access a server device as a client
via a browser on the player device and the player may play a game consistent with at least some
embodiments described herein by accessing the game interface using a browser rather than
having game logic downloaded to the player device. Thus, in some embodiments GUI 400 may
comprise a game interface output in a display of a player device via a web browser of the player
device, the information displayed therein being modified by a server device of a game provider.
[0192]           In accordance with some embodiments, GUI 400 may be arranged to display
information associated with a program for facilitating an electronic baccarat game consistent
with at least some embodiment described herein and permit interaction with (e.g. provide input
to the program), whether directly or indirectly, the computing device which is running or
performing the program. In one embodiment, the GUI 400 comprises a mechanism for one or
more computing devices to output game data to a player via a display of a player device (e.g., by

                                                 34
displaying the GUI 400 via a web browser of the player device) and/or receive data from a
player, and thereby perform one or more programs or sub-routines for facilitating an electronic
baccarat game comprising multiple paylines. For example, some elements of the GUI 400 may
comprise input mechanisms (e.g., virtual buttons or links actuatable by the player via a cursor or
via a touch if the GUI 400 is being displayed via a touchscreen of a player device) and the inputs
provided by the player to the GUI 400 may be transmitted to the computing device (e.g., gaming
apparatus 200) which is operable to determine data and progress in the game based on the inputs
(e.g., a computing device operable to perform process 500, described herein).
[0193]          In accordance with one embodiment, GUI 400 may comprise a plurality of
windows or areas of a variety of shapes and sizes (which shapes and sizes may be modified
during a course of a game event, to allow for clearer representations of information to a player).
In the example of Figure 4, GUI 400 includes a first window 402 in which there is displayed a
symbol matrix comprising eighteen (18) symbol positions into which cards may be placed,
arranged in three rows of six symbol positions. Also displayed in window 402, in the center
section between the first three columns and the last three columns (left-to-right) is information
regarding a result of a given game event, such as (i) an area 402a which summarizes, after cards
are populated into the symbol matrix for a given game instance, the number of Banker Side wins,
the number of Player side wins and the number of Ties; (ii) an area 402b which indicates the
wager amount for the present game instance; (iii) an area 402c which indicates the number of
paylines for which the side the player wagered on for the present wager (Banker or Player) was
the winning side; (iv) an area 402d which indicates the amount of a bonus payout win based on
the number of wins in (iii); (v) an area 402e which indicates the total amount won by the player
for the present game instance, based on (iv) and any additional amounts appropriate for the
wager (e.g., number of ties, an extra bonus payout, etc.); and (vi) an area 402f which indicates
the amount of funds (or credit meter balance) the player currently has as available for wagering
on the electronic baccarat game.
[0194]          Window or area 404a of GIU 400 comprises a player-selectable mechanism for
selecting the Banker side as the side the player would like to wager on for purposes of the
present game event. Window or area 404b comprises a player-selectable mechanism for
selecting the Player side as the side the player would like to wager on for purposes of the present
game event. A player may, in some embodiments, be required to select either Banker (utilizing

                                                 35
player selectable mechanism in area 404a) or Player (utilizing the player-selectable mechanism
in area 404b) before cards are populated (or at least before a sufficient number of cards is
revealed in GUI 400 to provide an information or an advantage to a player as to which side is
likely to have a higher number of wins). The player-selectable mechanisms in areas 404a and
404b may comprise, for example, touch-sensitive areas on a touch screen or areas selectable via
a cursor and mouse mechanism of a player device. In one embodiment in which a player device
comprises a dedicated gaming device, the player-selectable mechanisms for selecting either a
Banker side or a Player side for a given wager may be embodies as physical buttons in a bank of
buttons of a console comprising the gaming device.
[01951           Window 406 is, in accordance with some embodiments, outputting a bonus
payout schedule indicating how many credits a player may win, depending on how many wins
correspond to the side the player wagered on (Banker or Player). In accordance with some
embodiments, the bonus payout schedule in window 406 is utilized irrespective of which side the
player selected for the wager. In other embodiments, a first payout schedule may be utilized to
determine a payout amount for Banker side wins and a second payout schedule may be utilized
to determine a payout amount for Player side wins. In accordance with some embodiments, the
bonus payout schedule in window 406 consists of a plurality of ranges of number of wins and a
corresponding bonus payout amount for each range. It should be noted that, in accordance with
some embodiments, a relatively high payout amount (5,000 credits) will be awarded to the player
if zero (0) paylines correspond to a win on the side the player selected (e.g., if the player
wagered on Banker and none of the paylines result in a Banker side win, the player is awarded
5,000 credits). This is because of the relatively long odds of such an occurrence.
[0196]           Window 408 is, in accordance with some embodiments, outputting a secondary
bonus payout schedule, which specifies particular payout amounts to be awarded to the player if
a specific corresponding number of wins result for the side the player wagered on. In the
example of Figure 4, the secondary bonus payout schedule provides for only the following four
(4) bonus payouts: (i) 500 credits are awarded if a result of a game instance is that exactly 128
paylines have a win for the side the player wagered on; (ii) 888 credits are awarded if a result of
a game instance is that exactly 138 paylines have a win for the side the player wagered on; (iii)
8,888 credits are awarded if a result of a game instance is that exactly 228 paylines have a win
for the side the player wagered on; and (iv) 50,000 credits are awarded if a result of a game

                                                      36
instance is that exactly 238 paylines have a win for the side the player wagered on. In
accordance with some embodiments, the numbers 128, 138, 228 and 238 may have been selected
for additional payout amounts because they are considered lucky numbers in some cultures in
which the game is deployed. Of course, bonuses for particular numbers of wins may be selected
based on any desired premise or factor.
[01971           Returning to window 402, it can be seen that in the example game instance used
for illustrative purposes only, the particular placement of the particular game symbols illustrated
resulted (as indicated in area 402a) in (i) 180 Banker side wins (i.e., 180 paylines resulted in the
Banker side of the hand being the winning side), (ii) 49 Player side wins (i.e., 49 paylines
resulted in the Player side of the hand being the winning side) and (iii) 10 Ties. It may be
assumed, for purposes of the example of Figure 4, that the player who is participating in the
present game instance selected the Banker side when placing his wager. It may further be
assumed that the rules of the game award two (2) credits per wining payline for each credit
wagered and one (1) credit per tie, in addition to any bonus payout the player may win as a result
of either the Bonus Payout schedule of area 406 or the Extra Bonus Payout schedule in area 408.
Accordingly, upon a revealing of the cards placed into the symbol matrix of area 402, GUI 400
indicates that for purposes of the present example: (i) the player wagered 500 credits (area 402b);
(ii) 180 payline wins are attributed to the side the player wagered on (the Banker side in the
present example; area 402c); (iii) the player has won a bonus payout of 1,500 credits (area 402d,
derived using the Bonus Payout schedule shown in area 406, in which it can be seen that 180 is
within the range 180 - 184, which corresponds to a bonus payout of 1,500 credits; and (iv) that
the player has won, as a result of the present game instance, a total of 1,870 credits (area 402e).
The 1, 870 credits is derived, in accordance with some embodiments, as follows:
                                  (180 x 2)* + 1,500** + 10***        =  1,870
                 * two credits for each payline which has a win on the side the player wagered on (Player
                 or Banker), which in this case is 180 wins for the Banker side;
                 * bonus payout from schedule in area 406
                    * one credit per Tie, which in this case is ten (10)

                                                  37
[01981            Area 402f indicates the number of credits the player has available for wagering on
the game (e.g., after the 1,870 credits won as a result of the present game instance are added
thereto).
[0199]            Turning now to Figure 5, illustrated therein is a process 500 for implementing
some of the embodiments described herein. The process 500 may comprise respective processes
for implementing the multi-payline wager for a baccarat game described herein. The process
500 may be performed, for example, by at least one of a server device operable to facilitate an
electronic baccarat game and/or a player device enabling a player to play the electronic baccarat
game. For example, the process 500 may be performed by at least one of (i) a player device 102
(Figure 1); (ii) a game server 110 (Figure 1); (iii) a player device 202 (Figure 2A); and (iv) a
player device 250 (Figure 2B). It should be noted that additional and/or different steps may be
added to those depicted and that not all steps depicted are necessary to any embodiment
described herein. The process 500 is an example process of how some embodiments described
herein may be implemented, and should not be taken in a limiting fashion. A person of ordinary
skill in the art, upon contemplation of the embodiments described herein, may make various
modifications to process 500 without departing from the spirit and scope of the embodiments in
the possession of applicants.
[0200]            The process 500 will be described with reference to Figures 4, which comprises
an example GUI which may be output to a player in accordance with some embodiments
described herein and facilitate the implementation of process 500.
[0201]            Turning now to Figure 5, process 500 begins in step 502 with detecting a
placement of a multi-payline baccarat wager and selection by the player of the Banker or Player
side, which is to be used for calculating the appropriate payout for the game instance. For
example step 502 may comprise determining that a player has selected a wager amount, has
selected (via a player-selectable mechanism) one of the Player or Banker side and has actuated a
mechanism for initiating the dealing of the cards (e.g., determination of the cards to be placed
into the symbol matrix for the game instance). In some embodiments, selection of the Player
side and Banker side and initiation of the dealing of cards may comprise one input (e.g., the
actuation of either a "Player" button or a "Banker" button may cause cards to be dealt into the
symbol matrix). Various manners of receiving an indication of a wager placement by a player
are known and need not be described in detail herein.

                                                  38
[02021          In step 504, at least one output from an RNG is received, for purposes of
determining a result for the wager. In one embodiment, a different number or other output from
an RNG may be received for each payline and/or symbol position. In other embodiments a
single number or other output may be received from the RNG for the game instance and used to
determine particular cards or other symbols to place into the symbol matrix to indicate the result
corresponding to the number or output. An output of an RNG may comprise a random or
pseudo-random number or output determined based on an algorithm. In some embodiments the
RNG may be a component of a gaming apparatus or other computing device performing at least
some steps of process 500 while in other embodiments it may be a component of another device.
For example, upon determining that a new wager has been placed, the apparatus performing
process 500 may be programmed to request at least one output from an RNG, whether local or
remote. As described herein, in some embodiments an electronic shoe and/or live game play
data may be used in place of an RNG to determine at least one output based upon which the
particular cards to place into the symbol matrix of the game are determined.
[0203]          In step 506, particular game symbols (e.g., particular images of cards) are selected
and placed into the symbol positions of the symbol matrix based on the one or more RNG
outputs determined in step 504. In some embodiments all six symbol positions of at least one
given payline may initially be populated while in other embodiments only a subset of the symbol
positions of one or more paylines may initially be populated (e.g., four of the six symbol
positions of at least one of the paylines may be populated). In embodiments in which only a
subset of the symbol positions of at least one payline are initially populated, if it is later
determined that another symbol is to be placed into a symbol position of the at least one payline,
another output from an RNG or other source may be requested and the appropriate symbol to
place may be determined based thereon.
[0204]          In some embodiments, as described herein, only a subset of the symbol positions
for a given row are initially populated and a player may be provided with an opportunity to pick
the one or two cards (which are face down when the player selects them, such that the player is
not aware of the value of the cards) to fill the remaining one or more symbol positions in each
row which are not filled with cards based on an initial dealing of cards for the hand. For
example, the player may be allowed to select the one or two cards needed to complete four and
five card hands to make them six card hands. For example, once the initial deal of the four or

                                                  39
five cards is output to the player the player may be provided with an interface on which is output
a matrix of available face down cards for the player's selection (e.g., the benefit or value of the
card may be revealed to the player after the player selects the card). In some embodiments, the
point value of these cards will be 0, however some of them will also have a benefit (e.g., a
multiplier) associated with them. In such embodiments, process 500 may include at least one
additional step of receiving from the player a selection of the one or more additional cards to
place into the symbol matrix (and may also include additional steps of determining a set of cards
to make available to the player for selection, such as based on an RNG output, and outputting
these cards to the player for selection). Once the player selects the one or more additional cards,
these cards may be placed into the appropriate positions of the symbol matrix.
[02051          In step 508, the paylines of the symbol matrix are evaluated to determine the
number of Player side wins and the number of Banker side wins (and, in some embodiments, the
number of Ties). For example, as described herein, in some embodiments each payline consists
of a baccarat hand which includes at least two cards attributable to a Banker side and at least two
cards attributable to the Player side and evaluating a payline to determine which side is the
winning side may comprise determining a point value for each side in accordance with
traditional baccarat rules, then comparing the values to see which is higher. It should be noted
that step 508 may be performed prior to any of the cards (or at least all of the cards) being
revealed to the player. In other words, the gaming apparatus or other computing device
performing process 500 may determine a result for the current game instance (e.g., how many
Player side wins, how many Banker side wins, how many Ties) prior to revealing the cards
and/or result to the player. In some embodiments, as described herein, there may be a need to
place additional cards into the symbol matrix after an initial evaluation of the paylines (e.g., to
place a third card after two cards have initially been placed into at least one of the Player side or
the Banker side of at least one payline). A placement of an additional card may be due to, for
example, a rule of the baccarat game or to determine a bonus for use in the determination of a
payout of the baccarat game. In such embodiments, process 500 may include an additional step
of placing at least one additional card into the symbol matrix after an initial evaluation of the
paylines.
[02061          In step 510, the total payout for the present game instance is calculated based at
least on which side the player selected for the current wager (Player or Banker) and the number

                                                 40
of wins for that side. For example, as illustrated in Figure 4, in one embodiment a payout for the
game instance may be calculated by summing the following: (i) a predetermined number of
credits (e.g., two) per payline for which the win is attributable to the side the player wagered on;
(ii) a second predetermined number of credits (e.g., one) per Tie; (iii) a first bonus payout based
on which range of numbers from a plurality of number ranges that the number of wins
attributable to the side the player wagered on fits into; and (iv) a second bonus payout amount if
the number of wins attributable to the side the player wagered on is equal to a predetermined
special bonus number (e.g., 238).
[02071           The particular method for calculating a payout based on the number of wins
attributable to the side on which the player wagered on illustrated in Figure 4 is one example
method only. Other methodologies may be used to determine a payout based on the number of
paylines which have wins attributable to the side the player wagered on are contemplated and
described herein. The embodiments described herein are not dependent on any particular
mechanism for awarding payouts based on the number of paylines which have wins
corresponding to the side the player wagered on (Player or Banker) in a multi-payline baccarat
game. For example, in one alternate embodiment, different ranges of number of wins may
correspond to different multipliers which are to be applied to a primary payout for a game
instance. In another alternate embodiment, a bonus wheel game mechanic may be used to award
bonus payouts based on the number of wins corresponding to the side the player wagered on.
For example, different ranges of number of wins may activate different jackpot wheels (e.g., with
increasing prize values or relatively more high value prizes available on the different jackpot
wheels). In one embodiment, one or more bonus wheels may be dynamically populated with
available prizes based on the number of wins achieved by the player (e.g., prizes (or higher value
prizes) may be added to or removed from the wheel(s) depending on the range of number of
wins). A bonus jackpot wheel may then be spun to determine the bonus payout won by the
player, as a secondary feature of the game once the number of wins obtained by the player has
been determined for a given game instance.
[0208]           Provided below is one example bonus payout paytable utilizing different jackpot
wheel levels corresponding to different ranges of wins:

                                                   41
                     Hands Won                        Award
                     287 - 288                        Jackpot Wheel 6
                     280-286                          Jackpot Wheel 5
                     260 - 279                        Jackpot Wheel 4
                     240 - 259                        Jackpot Wheel 3
                     220 - 239                        Jackpot Wheel 2
                     200-219                          Jackpot Wheel 1
                     180 - 199                        1,000 credits
                     170- 179                         800 credits
                     160- 169                         500 credits
                     150- 159                         300 credits
                     140 - 149                        200 credits
                     120- 139                         100 credits
 [0209]          It should be noted that the table above provides a payout schedule which utilizes a
combination of bonus credits (for lower number of wins) and jackpot bonus wheels (for higher
number of wins). In accordance with one embodiment, each level of the jackpot wheel that is
higher than the last includes a relatively larger number of higher value prizes and/or prizes of
relatively higher values. In one example implementation, a GUI may output an indication that
the player has qualifies for a prize to be determined via a jackpot wheel once the count of wins
attributable to the side the player wagered on has been determine to reach at least the threshold
level for the jackpot wheel (200 wins in the example payout schedule of the table above). For
example, an image or other indicator of a jackpot wheel (or a particular level of the jackpot
wheel, if more than one is available) may be lit up or otherwise activated or highlighted on the
GUI. In embodiments in which a jackpot wheel is utilized to determine a bonus payout, process
500 (or an additional process or sub-routine) may be initiated once a player has qualified for the
jackpot wheel bonus payout determination in order to determine the particular bonus payout to
be awarded to the player.
 [0210]          In some embodiments, a bonus payout mechanic may not be utilized for a multi
payline baccarat game as described herein. For example, a simple payout determination may be
employed in which the player is provided a payout based on a predetermined number of credits

                                                   42
(e.g., two) per payline which has a win attributable to the side the player wagered on, without
additional bonus payouts being implemented.
[0211]           Once the appropriate total payout for the present game instance has been
calculated, the payout may be provided to the player (e.g., as an additional step of process 500,
not shown). For example, an appropriate number of credits may be added to a credit meter
balance of the player. In some embodiments, process 500 may also comprise outputting a
message to a player (e.g., via a GUI of the game) to inform the player of how much he has won
as a result of the multi-payline baccarat wager and how this payout was derived.
[0212]           Numerous embodiments are described in this disclosure, and are presented for
illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not intended to be,
limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable to numerous
embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will
recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and
alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although particular
features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or more particular
embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such features are not limited to
usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are
described, unless expressly specified otherwise.
Rules of Interpretation
[0213]           The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments nor a
listing of features of the invention that must be present in all embodiments.
[0214]           The Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of this disclosure) is not to be
taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s).
[02151           The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of
matter as contemplated by 35 U.S.C.  101, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0216]           The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
"the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "one embodiment" and
the like mean "one or more (but not all) disclosed embodiments", unless expressly specified
otherwise.

                                                   43
[02171          The terms "the invention" and "the present invention" and the like mean "one or
more embodiments of the present invention."
[02181          A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0219]          The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but
not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0220]          The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[0221]          The term "and/or", when such term is used to modify a list of things or
possibilities (such as an enumerated list of possibilities) means that any combination of one or
more of the things or possibilities is intended, such that while in some embodiments any single
one of the things or possibilities may be sufficient in other embodiments two or more (or even
each of) the things or possibilities in the list may be preferred, unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[0222]          The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0223]          The term "herein" means "in the present disclosure, including anything which
may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0224]          The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things (such
as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things, unless
expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase at least one of a widget, a car and a wheel
means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget and a
wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel.
[02251          The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based at
least on".
[0226]          Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have an
inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term. Accordingly,
any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.

                                                  44
[02271           When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as
an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise)
merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from another
feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first widget" may
be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the
ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of
either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second"
before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other
in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any
other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a
numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage
of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate that there
must be no more than two widgets.
[02281           When a single device, component or article is described herein, more than one
device, component or article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place
of the single device, component or article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is
described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one
device, component or article (whether or not they cooperate).
[0229]           Similarly, where more than one device, component or article is described herein
(whether or not they cooperate), a single device, component or article may alternatively be used
in place of the more than one device, component or article that is described. For example, a
plurality of computer-based devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device.
Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one
device, component or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device, component or
article.
[02301           The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are described but are not explicitly
described as having such functionality and / or features. Thus, other embodiments need not

                                                   45
include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices which
would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality/features.
[02311          Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous
communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary, such
devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may actually refrain from
exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in communication with another
machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for weeks at a time. In
addition, devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
[0232]          A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not
imply that all or even any of such components and / or features are required. On the contrary, a
variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible
embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component
and / or feature is essential or required.
[02331          Further, although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described in a
sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words,
any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a
requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein
may be performed in any order practical. Further, some steps may be performed simultaneously
despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously (e.g., because one step is
described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration of a process by its depiction in a
drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and
modifications thereto, does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary
to the invention, and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
[0234]          Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does
not indicate that all or even any of the steps are essential or required. Various other embodiments
within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that omit some or all of the
described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is essential or required.
[02351          Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that all of the plurality

                                                   46
are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described
invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
[02361           An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that
any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified otherwise.
For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of
the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three
items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
[02371           Headings of sections provided in this disclosure are for convenience only, and are
not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.
[02381           "Determining" something can be performed in a variety of manners and therefore
the term "determining" (and like terms) includes calculating, computing, deriving, looking up
(e.g., in a table, database or data structure), ascertaining, recognizing, and the like.
[02391           A "display" as that term is used herein is an area that conveys information to a
viewer. The information may be dynamic, in which case, an LCD, LED, CRT, Digital Light
Processing (DLP), rear projection, front projection, or the like may be used to form the display.
The aspect ratio of the display may be 4:3, 16:9, or the like. Furthermore, the resolution of the
display may be any appropriate resolution such as 480i, 480p, 720p, 1080i, 1080p or the like.
The format of information sent to the display may be any appropriate format such as Standard
Definition Television (SDTV), Enhanced Definition TV (EDTV), High Definition TV (HDTV),
or the like. The information may likewise be static, in which case, painted glass may be used to
form the display. Note that static information may be presented on a display capable of
displaying dynamic information if desired. Some displays may be interactive and may include
touch screen features or associated keypads as is well understood.
[0240]           The present disclosure may refer to a "control system" or program. A control
system or program, as that term is used herein, may be a computer processor coupled with an
operating system, device drivers, and appropriate programs (collectively "software") with
instructions to provide the functionality described for the control system. The software is stored
in an associated memory device (sometimes referred to as a computer readable medium or an
article of manufacture, which may be non-transitory in nature). While it is contemplated that an

                                                  47
appropriately programmed general purpose computer or computing device may be used, it is also
contemplated that hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware (e.g., an application specific
integrated circuit (ASIC)) may be used in place of, or in combination with, software instructions
for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus, embodiments are not limited
to any specific combination of hardware and software.
[0241]           A "processor" means any one or more microprocessors, Central Processing Unit
(CPU) devices, computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices.
Exemplary processors are the INTEL PENTIUM or AMD ATHLON processors.
[0242]           The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any statutory medium that
participates in providing data (e.g., instructions) that may be read by a computer, a processor or a
like device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to non-volatile
media, volatile media, and specific statutory types of transmission media. Non-volatile media
include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media
include DRAM, which typically constitutes the main memory. Statutory types of transmission
media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a
system bus coupled to the processor. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for
example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a
CD-ROM, Digital Video Disc (DVD), any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any
other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH
EEPROM, a USB memory stick, a dongle, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave,
or any other medium from which a computer can read. The terms "computer-readable memory",
"article of manufacture" and / or "tangible media" specifically exclude signals, waves, and wave
forms or other intangible or non-transitory media that may nevertheless be readable by a
computer.
[0243]           Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying
sequences of instructions to a processor. For example, sequences of instruction (i) may be
delivered from RAM to a processor, (ii) may be carried over a wireless transmission medium,
and / or (iii) may be formatted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols. For a
more exhaustive list of protocols, the term "network" is defined below and includes many
exemplary protocols that are also applicable here.

                                                    48
[02441            It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described
herein may be implemented by a control system and / or the instructions of the software may be
designed to carry out the processes of the present invention.
[02451            Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and
(ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or
descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored
representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides
those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated
entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will
understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described
herein. Further, despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including
relational databases, object-based models, hierarchical electronic file structures, and / or
distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein.
Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes,
such as those described herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored
locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database. Furthermore, while
unified databases may be contemplated, it is also possible that the databases may be distributed
and / or duplicated amongst a variety of devices.
[02461            As used herein a "network" is an environment wherein one or more computing
devices may communicate with one another. Such devices may communicate directly or
indirectly, via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet (or IEEE
802.3), Token Ring, or via any appropriate communications means or combination of
communications means. Exemplary protocols include but are not limited to: Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID), Bluetooth TM, Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), Code Division
Multiple Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile communications (GSM), Enhanced Data
rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Wideband CDMA
(WCDMA), Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS), Digital AMPS (D-AMPS), IEEE 802.11
(WI-FI), IEEE 802.3, SAP, , the best of breed (BOB), system to system (S2S), or the like. Note
that if video signals or large files are being sent over the network, a broadband network may be
used to alleviate delays associated with the transfer of such large files, however, such is not

                                                  49
strictly required. Each of the devices is adapted to communicate on such a communication
means. Any number and type of machines may be in communication via the network. Where the
network is the Internet, communications over the Internet may be through a website maintained
by a computer on a remote server or over an online data network including commercial online
service providers, bulletin board systems, and the like. In yet other embodiments, the devices
may communicate with one another over RF, cable TV, satellite links, and the like. Where
appropriate encryption or other security measures such as logins and passwords may be provided
to protect proprietary or confidential information.
[02471          Communication among computers and devices may be encrypted to insure
privacy and prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art. Appropriate
cryptographic protocols for bolstering system security are described in Schneier, APPLIED
CRYPTOGRAPHY, PROTOCOLS, ALGORITHMS, AND SOURCE CODE IN C, John Wiley
& Sons, Inc. 2d ed., 1996, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0248]          The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words
that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is previously
and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the clause or other
words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim
or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
[0249]          It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described
herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general purpose computers and
computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors) will receive
instructions from a memory or like device, and execute those instructions, thereby performing
one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further, programs that implement such
methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer
readable media) in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom
hardware may be used in place of, or in combination with, software instructions for
implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus, embodiments are not limited to
any specific combination of hardware and software. Accordingly, a description of a process
likewise describes at least one apparatus for performing the process, and likewise describes at
least one computer-readable medium and / or memory for performing the process. The apparatus
that performs the process can include components and devices (e.g., a processor, input and

                                               50
output devices) appropriate to perform the process. A computer-readable medium can store
program elements appropriate to perform the method.

                                                  51
What is claimed is:
1.       An apparatus for facilitating an electronic baccarat game, the apparatus comprising:
         a processor,
         a display device operable to output an electronic game interface,
         an input device, and
         a game controller comprising:
                 a processor, and
                 a first non-transitory memory operable to communicate with the processor, the
first memory storing a game program comprising instructions for directing the processor to
manage the electronic baccarat game, wherein the processor is operable with the game program
to:
                 output, on the display device, an electronic game interface comprising a plurality
of element positions arranged in a matrix comprising a plurality of rows and a plurality of
columns, the matrix available for placement of game elements and including a plurality of
paylines, each payline consisting of a specified subset of the element positions and including a
first plurality of element positions corresponding to a Player hand and a second plurality of
element positions corresponding to a Banker hand;
                 arrange, for a game instance on which a player has placed a wager, game elements
into at least a subset of the plurality of element positions;
                 determine which one of Player side and Banker side the player has selected when
placing the wager, thereby determining the player's win prediction for the game instance;
                 determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines, which of the Player hand
and the Banker hand is a winning hand for that payline;
                 determine a number of paylines of the plurality of paylines for which the Player
hand is a winning hand, thereby determining a number of Player hand wins for the game
instance;
                 determine a number of paylines of the plurality of paylines for which the Banker
hand is the winning hand, thereby determining a number of Banker hand wins for the game
instance;

                                                  52
                determine a payout to provide to the player for the game instance based on (i) the
player's win prediction and (ii) one of the number of the Player hand wins and the number of
Banker hand wins.
2.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a selection by the player of the Player side indicates
that the player is predicting there will be more Player hand wins than Banker side wins as a result
of the game instance and a selection by the player of the Banker side indicates that the player is
predicting there will be more Banker hand wins than Player side wins as a result of the game
instance;
3.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor further stores in the non-transitory
memory a plurality of symbol images for use in the electronic baccarat game, and wherein the
processor being operable with the program to arrange, for a game instance on which a player has
placed a wager, game elements into at least a subset of the plurality of element positions
comprises the processor being operable with the program to place symbol images from the
plurality of symbol images into the element positions.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input device comprises a wager initiation mechanism
and wherein the processor is further operable with the program to detect when the player has
actuated the wager initiation mechanism.
5.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
        compare the number of Player hand wins and the number of Banker hand wins;
        provide a payout to the player if (i) the number of Player hand wins is greater than the
number of Banker hand wins and (ii) the player's win prediction comprises a selection of the
Player side; and
        provide a payout to the player if (ii) the number of Banker hand wins is greater than the
number of Player hand wins and (ii) the player's win prediction comprises a selection of the
Banker side.
6.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:

                                                  53
        determine a value of the payout to be provided to the player by:
                determining a payout schedule which defines a plurality of payout values, each
value corresponding to a respective range of number of wins;
                determine, based on the player's win prediction, one of the number of Player hand
wins and the number of Banker hand wins to utilize for determining the value of the payout to be
provided to the player, thereby determining the player's number of wins;
                select one value of the plurality of payout values from the payout schedule by
selecting the payout value which corresponds to a range of numbers within which the player's
number of wins fits, thereby determining at least a portion of the value of the payout to be
provided to the player.
7.      The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor being operable with the program to
determine the value of the payout further comprises:
        determining a wager amount
8.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
        identify the game elements to be arranged into the at least a subset of the element
positions.
9.      The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is operable with the program to identify
the game elements to be arranged into the at least a subset of the element positions in accordance
with an algorithm for determining a result of the game instance.
10.     The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is operable with the program to identify
the game elements to be arranged into the at least a subset of the element positions based on
game elements which were dealt in a live baccarat game conducted at a table for facilitating the
live baccarat game.
11.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each payline comprises three element positions
corresponding to the Player hand and three different element positions corresponding to the
Banker hand such that each payline consists of at least six element positions.

                                                  54
12.     The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor being operable with the program to
arrange, for a game instance on which a player has placed a wager, game elements into at least a
subset of the plurality of element positions, comprises the processor being operable with the
program to:
        arrange, for each payline, a game element into each of two of the three element positions
corresponding to the Player hand of the payline; and
        arrange, for each payline, a game element into each of two of the three element positions
corresponding to the Banker hand of the payline.
13.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
        determine, based on the two cards arranged into element positions of a Player hand of a
given payline, whether a third element is to be placed into a third element position of the payline.
14.             The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further operable with the
program to:
        determine, for a given payline and based on an algorithm, a preliminary set of game
elements sufficient to populate only a subset of the at least six element positions of the payline,
thereby leaving at least one remaining element position of the at least six element positions of the
payline into which game elements of the preliminary set of game elements are not populated;
        determine, for the payline and based on a second methodology different from the
algorithm, at least one game element to be placed into the at least one remaining element
position of the at least six element positions of the payline; and
        populate the at least six element positions with a combination of the game elements
determined based on the algorithm and the at least one game element determined based on the
second methodology.
15.     The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor being operable with the program to
determine, for the payline and based on a second methodology different from the algorithm, at
least one game element to be placed into the at least one remaining element position of the at

                                                  55
least six element positions of the payline comprises the processor being operable with the
program to:
         receive from the player a selection of the at least one game element to be placed into the
at least one remaining element position of the at least six element positions of the payline.
16.      The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
         output to the player a game interface in which a plurality of player-selectable game
elements are arranged,
                 wherein the processor being operable with the program to receive a selection of at
least one game element to be placed into the at least one remaining element position comprises
the processor being operable with the program to receive the selection of at least one game
element of the plurality player-selectable of game elements output in the game interface.
17.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of player-selectable game elements are
output in the game interface in a manner that does not allow the player to know a respective
value of any of the plurality of player-selectable game elements prior to selection.
18.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor being operable with the program to
determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines, which of the Player hand and the Banker
hand is a winning hand for that payline comprises the processor being operable with the program
to:
         determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines and based on the combination of
the game elements determined based on the algorithm and the at least one game element
determined based on the second methodology, which of the Player hand and the Banker hand is a
winning hand for that payline.
19.      The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor being operable with the program to
determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines, which of the Player hand and the Banker
hand is a winning hand for that payline comprises the processor being operable with the program
to:

                                                 56
        determine, for each payline of the plurality of paylines and based on the game elements
determined based on the algorithm but not on the at least one game element determined based on
the second methodology, which of the Player hand and the Banker hand is a winning hand for
that payline.
20.     The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
        determine, for a given payline, a benefit defined by the at least one game element
determined based on the second methodology; and
        apply, for the given payline, the benefit to the one of the Player hand and the Banker
hand that is determined to be the winning hand for the payline.
21.     The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the benefit is a multiplier value and the processor
being operable with the program to apply the benefit comprises the processor being operable
with the program to multiply a payout the player wins as a result of the given payline by the
multiplier.
22.     The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the benefit is a third number and the processor being
operable with the program to apply the benefit comprises the processor being operable with the
program to add, prior to determining a value of a payout to provide to the player, the third
number to one of (i) the number of Player hand wins and (ii) the number of Banker hand wins,
such that the value of the payout is determined based on a sum of the third number and one of the
number of Player hand wins and the number of Banker hand wins.
23.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable with the program to:
        receive a side wager from the player for the game instance; and
        determine whether the player wins the side wager as a result of the game instance.
24.     The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the side wager comprises a wager that one of the
number of Player hand wins and the number of Banker hand wins will be within a specified
range of numbers.

                                                 57
25.    The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the side wager comprises a wager that at least one
payline of the plurality of paylines will achieve a predetermined criteria.
                            Walker Digital Table Systems, LLC
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Persons
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
