ABSTRACT
A flow of air through a diffuser (10) is controlled by controlling the volumetric flow rate of
the flow of air in a control passage, directing the air through a diffusion flow passage,
and then either diffusing the air in a first, normal direction, or occasionally diffusing it in
a second direction, to dump the air into a room. The air is dumped by operating a dump
mechanism (26) to displace a dump element (28,46) from a first diffusion position in
which the flow of air is directed in the first diffusion direction, along a ceiling, to a
second diffusion position in which the dump element (28,46) redirects the flow of air to
dump it.
Fig 18
                                               21

       16
  FIGURE 1
o FIGURE 2Z3

                                          AIR DIFFUSION
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   This invention relates to air diffusers for use in air conditioning systems.
 5
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   Air diffusers are used to reduce velocity and increase static pressure of air as it is
   distributed from a heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system to a space
   such as an air-conditioned room. (The space targeted by an HVAC system is referred
 0 to as a "room" herein, for the sake of brevity, but the space can take any other form.)
   Variable volume air diffusers can regulate the flow-rate of air distributed to the room and
   the flow-rate can be adjusted manually or automatically, to achieve desired ventilation
   and/or temperature conditioning.
 5
   Many HVAC systems can operate in a "heating mode", to supply hot air to the room, or
   in a "cooling mode" to supply cold air to the room and the room temperature can be
   controlled by controlling the volumetric flow of air through a diffuser.
 o Further to these functions, air diffusers are also often used to distribute air evenly in
   desired directions as it enters the room - especially to cause a jet of air from the
   diffuser to attach to a ceiling, taking advantage of the Coanda effect. However, in some
   instances, it would be desirable to depart from these benefits imparted on the HVAC air
   supply by the diffuser. In particular, in some instances it may be desirable for air from
25 the HVAC system to flow downwardly into a room. One example is when a cold room
   needs to be heated rapidly, despite the tendency of hot air to rise. A conventional
   diffuser would cause hot air from the HVAC system to be accumulate immediately
   below the ceiling and only gradually to fill the room.
30 The present invention seeks to provide for selective supply of air to a room with air
   diffusion, or with air-flow that flows directly into the room with reduced or no diffusion.
   The invention seeks to provide said selective supply of air in a cost effective manner,
   while allowing volumetric control of air flow.
                                                  2

   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an air diffuser
   including:
 5       a body defining at least one control flow passage;
         a volume control mechanism including at least one movable element that is
              displaceable relative to the body, to adjust the size of the control flow passage;
         said body defining at least one diffusion flow passage that is in communication with
              the control flow passage and that is configured to direct flow from the control
 0            flow passage in a first diffusion direction; and
         a dump mechanism including at least one dump element that is displaceable
              between a first diffusion position in which the diffusion flow passage is directed
              in the first diffusion direction, and a second diffusion position in which the dump
              element redirects the diffusion flow passage to deviate from the first diffusion
 5            direction.
   The second diffusion position of the dump element may be within the diffusion flow
   passage.
 O The first diffusion position may be a retracted position in which the dump element is
   substantially clear from the diffusion flow passage and the second diffusion position
   may be an extended position in which the dump element protrudes at least partly into
   the diffusion flow passage. The dump element may be retracted into the body in the
   first diffusion position and may protrude from the body in the second diffusion position.
25
   The dump element may be disposed inside the diffuser body and may be pivotally
   supported to pivot between its first diffusion position and its second diffusion position.
   The dump element may close a second flow passage at least in part, and restrict a flow
30 of air to the diffusion flow passage when the dump element is in the first diffusion
   position, and may open the second flow passage and permit the flow of air to deviate, at
   least in part, from the diffusion flow passage to the second flow passage when the
   dump element is in the second diffusion position.
                                                     3

   The dump mechanism may include a dump actuator that is configured to displace the
   dump element between the first diffusion position and the second diffusion position and
   the dump element may be biased to the first diffusion position.
 5
       According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
            controlling a flow of air through a diffuser, said method including:
        supplying a flow of air to a diffuser;
        directing the flow of air through a control flow passage;
 0      controlling the volumetric flow rate of the flow of air;
        directing the flow of air through a diffusion flow passage;
        directing the flow of air from the diffusion flow passage in a first diffusion direction;
        selectively operating a dump mechanism to displace a dump element from a first
            diffusion position in which the flow of air is directed in the first diffusion
 5          direction, to a second diffusion position in which the dump element redirects the
            flow of air to deviate from the first diffusion direction.
   The first diffusion direction may extend in the proximity of a ceiling and the step of
   operating the dump mechanism may include displacing the dump element to the
 O second diffusion position to redirect the flow of air away from the ceiling.
   The method may include controlling the volumetric flow rate while the flow of air is
   deviated from the first diffusion direction by the dump element.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   For a better understanding of the present invention, and to show how it may be carried
   into effect, the invention will now be described by way of non-limiting example, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
30 Figure 1 shows a top three-dimensional view of a first embodiment of an air diffuser
        according to the present invention;
   Figure 2 shows a side view of the diffuser of Figure 1;
   Figure 3 shows a top view of the diffuser of Figure 1;
                                                  4

   Figure 4 shows a detail top view of a support assembly of the diffuser of Figure 1;
   Figure 5 shows a sectional view of the support assembly of Figure 4, taken at V-V;
   Figure 6 shows a top view of a dump mechanism of a second embodiment of an air
       diffuser according to the present invention, in a first diffusion condition;
 5 Figure 7 shows a sectional side view of a the second embodiment of an air diffuser
       according to the present invention, in the first diffusion condition;
   Figure 8 shows a top view of the dump mechanism of Figure 6, in a second diffusion
       (dumping) condition;
   Figure 9 shows a sectional side view of a the diffuser of Figure 7, in the second
 0     diffusion (dumping) condition;
   Figure 10 shows a three-dimensional top view of a third embodiment of an air diffuser
       according to the present invention;
   Figure 11 shows a three-dimensional top view of a volume control mechanism and
       dump mechanism of the diffuser of Figure 10;
 5 Figure 12 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 10, in a first diffusion
       condition;
   Figure 13 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 10, in a second diffusion
       (dumping) condition;
   Figure 14 shows a three-dimensional bottom view of a fourth embodiment of an air
 0     diffuser according to the present invention;
   Figure 15 shows a three-dimensional top view of a volume control mechanism and
       dump mechanism of the diffuser of Figure 14;
   Figure 16 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 14, in a first diffusion
       condition, with its volume control open;
25 Figure 17 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 14, in a first diffusion
       condition, with its volume control closed;
   Figure 18 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 14, in a second diffusion
       (dumping) condition;
   Figure 19 shows a three-dimensional top view of a blade sub-assembly of a fifth
30     embodiment of an air diffuser according to the present invention, including a detail
       view;
   Figure 20 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 19, in a first diffusion
       condition, with its volume control open;
                                               5

   Figure 21 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 19, in a first diffusion
        condition, with its volume control closed;
   Figure 22 shows a sectional side view of the diffuser of Figure 19, in a second diffusion
        (dumping) condition;
 5 Figure 23 shows a top three-dimensional view of a sixth embodiment of an air diffuser
        according to the present invention;
   Figure 24 shows a top three-dimensional view of a dump mechanism of the diffuser of
        Figure 23;
   Figure 25 shows a sectional view of the diffuser of Figure 23 with dump elements in
 0      their diffuser positions;
   Figure 26 shows a sectional view of the diffuser of Figure 23 with dump elements in
        their second diffusion positions;
   Figure 27 shows a top three-dimensional view of a dump mechanism of a seventh
        embodiment of an air diffuser according to the present invention;
 5 Figure 28 shows a sectional view of the diffuser of Figure 27 with dump elements in
        their diffuser positions; and
   Figure 29 shows a sectional view of the diffuser of Figure 27 with dump elements in
        their second diffusion positions.
 O DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Referring to the drawings, an air diffuser in accordance with the present invention is
   generally indicated by reference numeral 10. Features that are common between
   different embodiments of diffusers according to the invention are identified by the same
   reference numbers and where applicable, different embodiments of the diffusers or
25 features are identified by suffixes.
   Referring to Figures 1 to 5, the air diffuser 10.1 includes a body in the form of a casing
   12 that is configured to be supported as part of a suspended ceiling, receiving air from
   an HVAC system above the ceiling. The casing 12 defines an internal control flow
30 passage that extends from a central inlet 14, which forms a truncated cylindrical neck at
   the top of the casing, downwards to an outlet on the underside of the casing (not visible
   in the drawings). The outlet is typically defined around the periphery of a central trim
   plate (not visible in the drawings), which is generally flush with the underside of the
                                                 6

   casing.
   The diffuser 10.1 includes a volume control mechanism that includes a movable
   element such as a baffle or control disc (not visible in the drawings) that is displaceable
 5 inside the casing 12 to increase or decrease the size of the control flow passage, to
   control the flow of air from the HVAC system, that flows from the inlet 14 and is
   discharged to the room below, through the outlet of the diffuser 10.1.
   On the underside of the casing 12, the diffuser 10.1 defines a diffusion flow passage,
 0 which extends from the outlet (around the periphery of the trim plate), outwards in a first
   diffusion direction along the underside of the casing. Air that exits the diffuser 10.1
   along this diffusion flow passage would tend to continue flowing outwards beyond the
   periphery of the diffuser, along the underside of an adjacent ceiling, by operation of the
   Coanda effect.
 5
   Above each corner of the casing 12, a support mechanism 16 is provided, which
   includes a base 18 that is attached to the casing and a hanger 20 that is supported
   above the base. The base 18 has an upstanding hollow pin 22 on which the hanger 20
   is received and the hanger is supported by a compression helical spring (not shown)
 0 that extends between the pin and the hanger. A passage 24 is defined inside the base
   18 and pin 22, along which a cable (not shown) can extend to be attached to the hanger
   20, so that tension on the cable would pull the hanger downwards relative to the base
   18, against the upward bias of the spring.
25 Cables that extend to each of the four support mechanisms 16 are connected together
   to form a harness that is connected to a dump actuator in the form of a stepper motor
   26.1, so that rotation of the stepper motor causes a cable from the harness to be wound
   around a pulley and to apply tension to the entire harness. Tension in the harness is
   transferred to the cables in the passages 24 of each of the support assemblies 16 and
30 causes them to pull the hangers 20 downwards, simultaneously.
   Four dump elements in the form of narrow blades 28.1 are each supported at their
   opposing ends, by two of the hangers 20. The stepper motor 26.1, harness of cables,
                                                7

   hangers 20 and blades 28.1 operate as a dump mechanism, such that the blades move
   up and down in unison with the hangers, when the stepper motor 26.1 applies tension
   to the cable harness.
 5 The casing 12 defines four slots along its periphery and each of the blades 28.1 is
   configured to slide vertically in its associated slot between a retracted or first diffusion
   position, in which each blade is substantially above the underside of the casing 12, and
   an extended or second diffusion position in which most of each blade protrudes below
   the underside of the casing, as shown in Figure 2.
 0
   During normal operation of the diffuser 10.1, the cable harness is not under tension and
   the springs bias the hangers 20 and blades 28.1 upwards, so that the blades are in their
   retracted positions, in which they are clear of the diffusion flow passage and allow the
   air in the diffusion flow passage to flow in the first diffusion direction, outwardly from the
 5 underside of the casing 12 and along the underside of the adjacent ceiling. The diffuser
   10.1 operates in this condition, in a conventional manner, with volumetric control of the
   air flow-rate and with diffusion of the air.
   In the event that a downward flow of air from the diffuser 10.1 is required, the stepper
 0 motor 26.1 is operated to pull the cable harness and to pull the hangers 20 and blades
   28.1 downwards into their extended positions, with the blades protruding below the
   underside of the casing 12, along the periphery of the casing. The lower edges of the
   blades 28.1 protrude into the diffusion flow passage and disrupts the outward flow of air
   along the undersides of the casing 12 and ceiling and instead, redirects the air to
25 deviate from the first diffusion direction and to flow downwards in a second diffusion
   direction.
   The redirection of the air flow by the blades 28.1 in their extended positions, is
   enhanced by rib formations 30 along the bottom edges of the blades.                      In the
30 embodiment illustrated in Figures 1 to 5, the rib formations 30 extend continuously
   along the entire lower edge of each blade 28.1, while the upper part of the blade is
   discontinuous and defines two gaps 32.
                                                  8

   When the downward (dumping) flow of air is no longer required, the stepper motor 26.1
   is operated to relieve tension on the cable harness and the bias in the springs causes
   the hangers 20 to lift and to retract the blades into their retracted positions
   substantially retracted into the underside of the casing 12.
 5
   Referring to Figures 6 to 9, the second embodiment of a diffuser 10.2 according to the
   present invention includes a casing 12 with an inlet 14, where it receives a supply of air
   from an HVAC system. At the bottom of the casing, a fixed central trim plate 34.2 is
   supported generally flush with the underside of the casing and with the adjacent ceiling,
 0 with an outlet 36 defined around the circumference of the trim plate. A control disc (not
   shown) can be supported inside the casing 12, above the trim plate 34 and form part of
   a volume control mechanism of the diffuser 10.2, the trim plate being moveable up and
   down inside the casing to adjust the size of the control flow passage that extends from
   the inlet 14 to the circumference of the control disc. Instead, the diffuser 10.2 could
 5 include a rotating control disc 40.2 inside the casing 12, below the inlet 14, which
   rotates to adjust the size of the flow passage by varying the extent to which apertures in
   a fixed plate and in the control disc, overlap.
   At the outlet 36, the diffuser 10.2 defines a diffusion flow passage, which extends from
 0 the circumference of the control disc and trim plate 34.2, outwards in a first diffusion
   direction along the underside of the casing. Air that exits the diffuser 10.2 along this
   diffusion flow passage would tend to continue flowing outwards beyond the periphery of
   the diffuser, along the underside of an adjacent ceiling, by operation of the Coanda
   effect, as shown in Figure 7.
25
   The diffuser 10.2 includes a dump mechanism including four dump elements in the form
   of blades 28.2 that are each supported transversely at the end of a bar 38. The dump
   mechanism includes an actuator in the form of stepper motor 26.2 with a pinion (not
   shown) that meshes with linear gear teeth on each of the bars 38 in rack-and-pinion
30 fashion, so that rotation of the stepper motor drives each of the bars 38 to travel
   longitudinally inwards or outwards, simultaneously, in directions oriented at right angles
   relative to one another.
                                                9

   During normal operation of the diffuser 10.2, the blades 28.2 are in first diffusion
   positions or retracted positions as shown in Figures 6 and 7, in which they are retracted
   behind the trim plate 34.2 and are substantially clear of the diffusion flow passage, so
   that they allow the air in the diffusion flow passage to flow in the first diffusion direction,
 5 outwardly from the underside of the casing 12 and along the underside of the adjacent
   ceiling, as shown in Figures 6 an 7. The diffuser 10.2 operates in this condition, in a
   conventional manner, with volumetric control of the air flow-rate by operation of the
   control disc 40.2, and with diffusion of the air.
 0 In the event that a downward flow of air from the diffuser 10.2 is required, the stepper
   motor 26.2 is operated to push the bars 38 outwards and push the blades 28.2
   outwards into second diffusion or extended positions in which the blades protrude
   beyond the periphery of the trim plate 34.2, as shown in Figures 8 and 9. The blades
   28.2 protrude into the diffusion flow passage and disrupts the outward flow of air as it
 5 exits the outlet 36 and redirects the air to deviate from the first diffusion direction and to
   flow downwards in a second diffusion direction, as shown in Figures 8 and 9.
   While the diffuser 10.2 is in this second diffusion or dumping condition, the volumetric
   control of air flow-rate continues in the conventional manner by operation of the control
 0 disc 40.2.
   Once the need for downward flow or air from the diffuser 10.2 ceases, the stepper
   motor 26.2 is operated to draw the bars 38 and the blades 28.2 inwards to return the
   blades to their retracted positions as shown in Figures 6 and 7, and normal operation of
25 the diffuser 10.2 can resume.
   Referring to Figures 10 to 13, the third embodiment of a diffuser 10.3 according to the
   present invention includes some features that are very similar to those of the second
   embodiment, shown in Figures 6 to 9, including: a casing 12 with an inlet 14, a volume
30 control mechanism including a rotating control disc 40.3, an outlet 36 around a trim
   plate 34.3 (although the trim plate is quite different - see below), where the diffuser
   10.3 defines a diffusion flow passage, which extends from the circumference of the trim
   plate 34.3, outwards in a first diffusion direction along the underside of the casing. An
                                                 10

   internal casing 42 is also shown in Figures 10 to 13, which supports the control disc
   40.3, with windows 44 in the internal casing, through which air can flow.
   Figures 10 and 11 shows the volume control mechanism of the diffuser 10.3, in which
 5 the control disc 40.3 is in register with a stationary plate in an open condition, with
   apertures defined in the control disc and the stationary plate, in register. Each aperture
   is almost twice the width of the adjacent solid part of the control disc 40.3 and an
   intermediary disc (not visible) is provided between the control disc and stationary disc,
   which is shaped similarly to the control disc and stationary disc. When the control disc
 0 40.3 rotates to a closed position, the intermediate disc rotates with it for a part of the
   rotation, so that the apertures in the stationary plate are partly closed by the control disc
   and partly by the intermediary disc.
   The diffuser 10.3 includes a dump mechanism including a perforated trim plate 34.3
 5 and an array of blades 28.3 that extend in a radial arrangement above the trim plate.
   Each of the blades 28.3 is pivotally supported above the trim plate 34.3 to pivot
   between a first or closed position in which the blades lie flat against the trim plate in a
   side-by-side arrangement, blocking the perforations in the trim plate as shown in
   Figures 10 and 12, and a second or open position in which the blades extend upwards
 0 and do not obstruct the perforations of the trim plate, as shown in Figures 11 and 13.
   The dump mechanism includes an actuator in the form of stepper motor (not shown)
   that is configured to pivot the blades 28.3 in unison between their open and closed
   positions.
25 During normal operation of the diffuser 10.3, the blades 28.3 are in their closed
   positions as shown in Figures 10 and 12, in which they obstruct the perforations in the
   trim plate 34.3, so that air flows in the diffusion flow passage in the first diffusion
   direction, outwardly from the underside of the casing 12 and along the underside of the
   adjacent ceiling, as shown in Figure 12. The diffuser 10.3 operates in this condition, in
30 a conventional manner, with volumetric control of the air flow-rate by operation of the
   control disc 40.3, and with diffusion of the air.
   In the event that a downward flow of air from the diffuser 10.3 is required, the stepper
                                                 11

   motor is operated to pivot the blades 28.3 upwards to their open positions as shown in
   Figures 11 and 13. The apertures in the trim plate 34.3 are thus no longer obstructed
   by the blades 28.3 and the outward flow of air as it exits the outlet 36 is disrupted, at
   least in part, because the air is redirected by the blades to deviate from the first
 5 diffusion direction and to flow downwards in a second diffusion direction, through the
   perforations of the trim plate, as shown in Figure 13.
   While the diffuser 10.3 is in this second diffusion or dumping condition, the volumetric
   control of air flow-rate continues in the conventional manner by operation of the control
 0 disc 40.3.
   Once the need for downward flow or air from the diffuser 10.3 ceases, the stepper
   motor is operated to pivot the blades 28.3 downwards to return them to their closed
   positions as shown in Figures 10 and 12, and normal operation of the diffuser 10.3 can
 5 resume.
   Referring to Figures 14 to 18, the fourth embodiment of a diffuser 10.4 according to the
   present invention includes some features that are very similar to those of the third
   embodiment shown in Figures 10 to 13, such as: a casing 12 with an inlet 14, a
 0 perforated trim plate 34.4 and an outlet 36 around a trim plate, where the diffuser 10.4
   defines a diffusion flow passage, which extends from the circumference of the trim
   plate, outwards in a first diffusion direction along the underside of the casing.
   The diffuser 10.4 also includes a volume control mechanism including a control disc
25 40.4 that is moved up and down inside the casing 12 in the control flow passage,
   between that inlet 14 and the trim plate 34.4, to control the size of the flow passage and
   thus control the volume of air flow through the diffuser.
   As best seen in Figure 15, the control disc 40.4 also includes a dump mechanism
30 including a dump disc 46 that is rotatable relative to the control disc. Each of the control
   disc 40.4 and dump disc 46 defines apertures in them and the dump disc can rotate
   between a first or closed position in which the apertures of the control disc are closed
   by the dump disc, and a second or open position in which the apertures of the control
                                                 12

   disc and dump disc are in register and are open. The dump mechanism includes an
   actuator in the form of stepper motor (not shown) that is configured to rotate the dump
   disc 46 relative to the control disc 40.4.
 5 During normal operation of the diffuser 10.4, the dump disc 46 is in its closed position
   as shown in Figures 16 and 17, in which it obstructs the apertures in the control disc
   40.4, so that air flows in the diffusion flow passage in the first diffusion direction,
   outwardly from the underside of the casing 12 and along the underside of the adjacent
   ceiling, as shown in Figure 16.       The diffuser 10.4 operates in this condition, in a
 0 conventional manner, with diffusion of the air and with volumetric control of the air flow
   rate by operation of the control disc 40.4, which moves between an open position as
   shown in Figure 16, where air passes between the casing 12 and the circumference of
   the control disc, and a closed position as shown in Figure 17, in which the
   circumference of the control disc seals against the casing 12.
 5
   In the event that a downward flow of air from the diffuser 10.4 is required, the control
   disc 40.4 is moved upwards to its closed position and the dump disc 46 is rotated to
   open the apertures in the control disc and allow air to flow downward through these
   apertures, as shown in Figure 18. The air is thus no longer only directed to a gap
 0 between the circumference of the control disc 40.4 and the casing 12 and to flow
   outwards through the outlet 36 in a first diffusion direction, but a large part of this flow is
   disrupted and the air is redirected to flow downwards in a second diffusion direction,
   through the apertures in the control disc and through the perforations of the trim plate
   34.4.
25
   While the diffuser 10.4 is in this second diffusion or dumping condition, the volumetric
   control of air flow-rate is achieved by controlled rotation of the dump disc 46 in relation
   to the control disc 40.4, to regulate the degree by which the apertures in these two discs
   overlap.
30
   Once the need for downward flow or air from the diffuser 10.4 ceases, the dump disc 46
   is rotated to return to its closed positions as shown in Figures 16 and 17, and normal
   operation of the diffuser 10.4 can resume.
                                                 13

   Referring to Figures 19 to 22, the fifth embodiment of a diffuser 10.5 according to the
   present invention includes a casing 12.5 that differs somewhat from the first four
   embodiments, although it also has an inlet 14 or neck at its top and at its bottom, the
 5 casing defines an outlet 36.5 that is partially closed by a blade sub-assembly 48.
   The blade sub-assembly 48 includes a base plate 50 that extends across the outlet
   36.5 of the casing 12.5 and that is typically installed generally aligned with the ceiling.
   An array of radial outlet apertures 52 are defined in the base plate 50 in a radial pattern
 0 and an array of blades 28.5 are pivotally mounted on the base plate and are each
   pivotable between a closed condition in which each blade closes its associated outlet
   aperture as shown in Figure 21, an intermediate position in which each blade extends at
   an acute angle relative to the base plate and its associated outlet aperture is open as
   shown in Figure 20, and a fully open position in which each blade extends generally
 5 upright relative to the base plate and its associated outlet aperture is open, as shown in
   Figure 22.
   Each of the blades 28.5 is attached to a central disc 54 by a crank arm 56, so that up
   and-down movement of the central disc pivots all the blades in unison, in crank-fashion
 0 between their closed, intermediate and open positions. Up and down movement of the
   central disc 54 is affected by operation of a stepper motor (not shown).
   The diffuser 10.5 includes a volume control mechanism and a dump mechanism, but
   both these mechanisms comprise of the same equipment, operated in different modes.
25 The stepper motor, central disc 54, crank arms 56, blades 28.5 and base plate 50 with
   its apertures 52, make up the volume control mechanism and the dump mechanism.
   During normal operation of the diffuser 10.5, the volume control mechanism is operated
   to pivot each of the blades 28.5 between its closed position as shown in Figure 21 and
30 an intermediate position, e.g. the position shown in Figure 20. The pivoting movement
   of each blade 28.5 in relation to its associated aperture 52 opens and closes the
   aperture to restrict and thus control the volumetric flow rate of air through the aperture.
   The angle of each blade 28.5 relative to the base plate 50 is at a small enough angle for
                                                14

   the flow passage along the blade and through its aperture 52 to serve as a diffusion
   flow passage and for air to leave the aperture in a first diffusion direction and to travel
   along the underside of the ceiling, as shown in Figure 20.
 5 In the event that a downward flow of air from the diffuser 10.5 is required, the central
   disc 54 is lifted further off the base plate 50 so that the blades 28.5 deflect the air flow
   so that it no longer travels along the ceiling in the first diffusion direction, but air is
   redirected to flow downwards in a second diffusion direction.
 0 Once the need for downward flow or air from the diffuser 10.5 ceases, central disc 54 is
   lowered again to pivot the blades 28.5 back to their normal operating positions between
   their close and intermediate positions, so that normal operation of the diffuser 10.5 can
   resume.
 5 Referring to Figures 23 to 26, the sixth embodiment of an air diffuser 10.6 includes a
   body in the form of an elongate, rectangular casing 64 with a bottom flange 66 that can
   be integrated in a ceiling. The top of the casing 64 is open and can receive air from an
   HVAC system - typically from a box that extends upwards above the casing, but
   possibly also from a plenum. The inside of the casing 64 forms a control flow passage
 0 in which air from the HVAC system flows downwards through outlets 68 on the
   underside of the casing, into a room below.
   The diffuser 10.6 includes a volume control mechanism in the form of a volume control
   actuator 70 that is configured to slide a moveable element with a series of vanes 72 in
25 relation to stationary vanes (not visible in the drawings) that form part of the casing 64,
   to adjust the size of the control flow passage, by adjusting control apertures 74 defined
   between the movable vanes 72 and the stationary vanes.
   Below the volume control mechanism, the casing 64 defines a diffusion flow passage,
30 extending from the volume control mechanism, inside the casing and into the room
   below, through the outlets 68. The casing 64 includes rounded lips 76 that extend
   along lateral edges of the outlets 68 and two blades 78 are provided inside the casing
   64, immediately above the outlets. The blades 78 are normally slanted as shown in
                                                 15

   Figure 25, so that air flowing downward in the diffusion flow passage, is directed to flow
   downwards around the lower edges of the blades and is urged by the lips 76 to exit the
   outlets 68 in a first diffusion direction that extends generally along the underside of the
   flange 66 - as shown by arrows in Figure 25.
 5
   The blades 78 also serve as dump elements of a dump mechanism, which includes a
   dump actuator 80 in the form of a stepper motot that is configured to pivot the blades
   via a connecting bracket 82 between the slanted, first diffusion position shown in Figure
   25 and a vertical, second diffusion position, shown in Figure 26.
 0
   During normal operation of the diffuser 10.6, the blades 78 are kept in their first
   diffusion position and the air leaves the diffuser in the first diffusion direction, along the
   underside of the adjacent ceiling as shown in Figure 25. However, if a downward flow
   of air is required, e.g. if rapid heating of a cold room is required, or if the diffuser is
 5 required to provide an air curtain or provide heating immediately inside a cold window,
   then the dump actuator 80 operates to pivot the blades 78 to the second diffusion
   position shown in Figure 26.         The blades 78 redirect the air to deviate from the
   horizontal first diffusion direction and to flow downwards into the room in a second
   diffusion direction.
 0
   To cease downward dumping of air, the dump actuator 80 simply pivots the blades 78
   to return them to their slanted first diffusion positions.
   Referring to Figures 27 to 29, the seventh embodiment of an air diffuser according to
25 the present invention is substantially similar to the sixth embodiment shown in Figures
   23 to 26, except that the dump actuator is not connected to the blades 78 via a bracket,
   but instead, the dump mechanism includes a dump actuator 80.7 in the form of a
   stepper motor with a shaft that is directly connected to one of the blades 78 to serve as
   pivot axle for the blade and upper edges of the blades are connected with a link 84 to
30 link the blades to pivot together.
   The operation of the diffuser of the seventh embodiment is also practically the same as
   the sixth embodiment, with the blades 78 being slanted during normal operation and air
                                                  16

  being directed by the lips 76 to exit the outlets 68 in a first diffusion direction, along the
  ceiling, as shown in Figure 28, and the blades being pivoted upwards when dumping is
  required, to direct the air flow downwards in a second diffusion direction as shown in
  Figure 29.
5
                                               17

CLAIMS:
1.   An air diffuser including:
        a body defining at least one control flow passage;
        a volume control mechanism including at least one movable element that is
           displaceable relative to the body, to adjust the size of the control flow
           passage;
        said body defining at least one diffusion flow passage that is in
           communication with the control flow passage and that is configured to
           direct flow from the control flow passage in a first diffusion direction; and
        a dump mechanism including at least one dump element that is displaceable
           between a first diffusion position in which the diffusion flow passage is
           directed in the first diffusion direction, and a second diffusion position in
           which the dump element redirects the diffusion flow passage to deviate
           from the first diffusion direction.
2.   The air diffuser according to claim 1, in which the second diffusion position of the
     dump element is within the diffusion flow passage.
3.   The air diffuser according to claim 2, in which the first diffusion position is a
     retracted position in which the dump element is substantially clear from the
     diffusion flow passage and the second diffusion position is an extended position
     in which the dump element protrudes at least partly into the diffusion flow
     passage.
4.   The air diffuser according to claim 3, in which the dump element is retracted into
     the body in the first diffusion position and protrudes from the body in the second
     diffusion position.
5.   The air diffuser according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the dump
     element is disposed inside the diffuser body and is pivotally supported to pivot
     between its first diffusion position and its second diffusion position.
                                            18

6.  The diffuser according to claim 5, in which the dump element closes a second
    flow passage at least in part, and restricts a flow of air to the diffusion flow
    passage when the dump element is in the first diffusion position, and opens the
    second flow passage and permits the flow of air to deviate, at least in part, from
    the diffusion flow passage to the second flow passage when the dump element
    is in the second diffusion position.
7.  The air diffuser according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the dump
    mechanism includes a dump actuator that is configured to displace the dump
    element between the first diffusion position and the second diffusion position.
8.  The air diffuser according to claim 7, in which the dump element is biased to the
    first diffusion position.
9.  A method of controlling a flow of air through a diffuser, said method including:
        supplying a flow of air to a diffuser;
        directing the flow of air through a control flow passage;
        controlling the volumetric flow rate of the flow of air;
        directing the flow of air through a diffusion flow passage;
        directing the flow of air from the diffusion flow passage in a first diffusion
           direction;
        selectively operating a dump mechanism to displace a dump element from
           a first diffusion position in which the flow of air is directed in the first
           diffusion direction, to a second diffusion position in which the dump
           element redirects the flow of air to deviate from the first diffusion
           direction.
10. The method according to claim 9 in which the first diffusion direction extends in
    the proximity of a ceiling and the step of operating the dump mechanism
    includes displacing the dump element to the second diffusion position to redirect
    the flow of air away from the ceiling.
11. The method according to claim 9 or claim 10, which includes controlling the
                                            19

    volumetric flow rate while the flow of air is deviated from the first diffusion
    direction by the dump element.
12. The air diffuser according to claim 1, substantially as described herein with
    reference to any of the drawings.
13. The method of controlling a flow of air through a diffuser according to claim 9,
    substantially as described herein with reference to any of the drawings.
                                       20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
