  ABSTRACT
  The present invention relates to the discovery of flavour or taste modifiers, such as
  flavouring or flavouring agents and flavour or taste enhancers. In particularly, savoury or
5 sweet taste modifiers, savoury or sweet flavouring agents and savoury or sweet flavour
  enhancers, for foods, beverages, and other comestible or orally administered medicinal
  products or compositions.
  10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     NOVEL FLAVORS, FLAVOR MODIFIERS, TASTANTS, TASTE ENHANCERS,
     UMAMI OR SWEET TASTANTS, AND/OR ENHANCERS AND USE THEREOF
   This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. <removed-apn>,
 5 which is a divisional application of Australian patent no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian patent no. 2014202646, which claims the priority of
   U.S. provisional patent application serial number 60/494,071 filed on August 06, 2003, and
   also claims the priority of U.S. provisional patent application serial number 60/552,064,
   filed March 09, 2004. The disclosure of AU2014202646, AU<removed-apn> and
10 AU<removed-apn> and the US provisional applications are hereby incorporated herein by
   reference. Most of the disclosure of the ultimate parent and parent applications is also
   included herein, however, reference may be made to the specification of either of those
   applications as filed or accepted to gain further understanding of the invention claimed
   herein.
15 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to the discovery of flavor or taste modifiers, such as a
   flavoring or flavoring agents and flavor or taste enhancers, more particularly, savory
   ("umami") or sweet taste modifiers, - savory or sweet flavoring agents and savory or sweet
   flavor enhancers, for foods, beverages, and other comestible or orally administered
20 medicinal products or compositions.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   For centuries, various natural and unnatural compositions and/or compounds have been
   added to comestible (edible) foods, beverages, and/or orally administered medicinal
   compositions to improve their taste. Although it has long been known that there are only a
25 few basic types of "tastes," the biological and biochemical basis of taste perception was
   poorly understood, and most taste improving or taste modifying agents have been
   discovered largely by simple trial and error processes.
   There has been significant recent progress in identifying useful natural flavoring agents,
   such as for example sweeteners such as sucrose, fructose, glucose, erythritol, isomalt,
30 lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, certain known natural terpenoids, flavonoids, or protein
   sweeteners. See for example a recent article entitled "Noncariogenic Intense Natural
   Sweeteners" by Kinghorn et al. (Med Res Rev 18 (5) 347-360, 1998), which discussed
                                                    1
   10392499_1 (GHM~et-) P59273.AJ.5

   recently discovered natural materials that are much more intensely sweet than common
   natural sweeteners such as sucrose, fructose, and the like. Similarly, there has been recent
   progress in identifying and commercializing new artificial sweeteners, such as aspartame,
   saccharin, acesulfame-K, cyclamate, sucralose, and alitame, etc., see a recent article by
 5 Ager, et al.(Angew Chem Int. Ed. 1998, 37, 1802-1817). The entire disclosure of the two
   references identified above are hereby incorporated herein by reference, for the purpose of
   describing at least in part the knowledge of those of ordinary skill in the art regarding
   known sweetening agents.
   However, there remains in the art a need for new and improved flavoring agents. For
10 example, one of the five known basic tastes is the "savory" or "umami" flavor of
   monosodium glutamate ("MSG"). MSG is known to produce adverse reactions in some
   people, but very little progress has been made in identifying artificial substitutes for MSG.
   It is known that a few naturally occurring materials can increase or enhance the
   effectiveness of MSG as a savory flavoring agent, so that less MSG would be needed for a
15 given flavoring application. For example the naturally occurring nucleotide compounds
   inosine monophosphate (IMP) or guanosine monophosphate (GMP) are known to have a
   multiplier effect on the savory taste of MSG, but IMP and GMP are very difficult and
   expensive to isolate and purify from natural sources, or synthesize, and hence have only
   limited practical application to most commercial needs in food or medicinal compositions.
20 Less expensive compounds that would provide the flavor of MSG itself, or enhance the
   effectiveness of any MSG that is present could be of very high value. Similarly, discovery
   of compounds that are either new "High Intensity" sweetners (i.e. they are many times
   sweeter than sucrose) would be of value, or any compounds that significantly increase the
   sweetness of known natural or artificial sweeteners, so that less of those caloric or non
25 caloric sweeteners would be required, would be of very high utility and value.
   In recent years substantial progress has been made in biotechnology in general, and in
   better understanding the underlying biological and biochemical phenomena of taste
   perception. For example, taste receptor proteins have been recently identified in mammals
   which are involved in taste perception. Particularly, two different families of G protein
30 coupled receptors believed to be involved in taste perception, T2Rs and Ti Rs, have been
   identified. (See, e.g., Nelson, et al., Cell (2001) 106(3):381-390; Adler, et al., Cell (2000)
   100(6):693-702; Chandrashekar, et al., Cell (2000) 100:703-711; Matsunami, et al.,
                                                    2
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Number (2000) 404:601-604; Li, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (2002) 99:4962-4966;
   Montmayeur, et al., Nature Neuroscience (2001) 4(S):492-498: U.S. Patent 6,462,148; and
   PCT publications WO 02/06254, WO 00/63166 art, WO 02/064631, and WO 03/001876,
   and U.S. Patent publication US 2003-0232407 Al). The entire disclosures of the articles,
 5 patent applications, and issued patents cited immediately above are hereby incorporated
   herein by reference, for all purposes, including their disclosures of the identities and
   structures of T2Rs and TIRs mammalian taste receptor proteins and methods for
   artificially expressing those receptors in cell lines and using the resulting cell lines for
   screening compounds as potential "savory" or "sweet" flavoring agents.
10 Whereas the T2R family includes a family of over 25 genes that are involved in bitter taste
   perception, the TIRs only includes three members, TIRI, TlR2 and TlR3. (see Li, et al.,
   Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (2002) 99:4962-4966.) Recently it was disclosed in WO
   02/064631 and/or WO 03/001876 that certain TIR members, when co-expressed in
   suitable mammalian cell lines, assemble to form functional taste receptors. Particularly it
15 was found that co-expression of TIRI and TlR3 in a suitable host cell results in a
   functional T1R1/T1R3 savory ("umami") taste receptor that responds to savory taste
   stimuli, including monosodium glutamate. Similarly, it was found that co-expression of
   TlR2 and TlR3 in a suitable host cell results in a functional TlR2/TlR3 "sweet" taste
   receptor that responds to different taste stimuli including naturally occurring and artificial
20 sweeteners. (See Li, et al. (Id.). The references cited above also disclosed assays and/or
   high throughput screens that measure TlR1/TlR3 or TlR2/TlR3 receptor activity by
   fluorometric imaging in the presence of the target compounds. We employed the above
   described assays and/or high throughput screening methods to identify initial "lead"
   compounds that modulate the activity of TlR1/TlR3 "savory" taste receptors, or
25 TlR2/TlR3 "sweet" taste receptors, then embarked on a long, complex and iterative
   process of investigation, evaluation, and optimization, so as to arrive at the various
   inventions described below.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The invention has many aspects, all of which relate in some fashion to certain non
30 naturally occurring amide compounds and/or amide derivative compounds having the
   generic structure shown below in Formula (I):
                                                   3
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                          0
                R1            N"IR2
                             R3
                      (I)
   wherein R 1, R 2 and R' can be and are independently further defined in various ways, as is
   further detailed below. In all the embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (I) the
   Ri group is an organic residue comprising at least three carbon atoms, with a variety of
 5 alternative limits on the size and/or chemical characteristics of the R 1 group, as will be
   further described below. In many but not all embodiments, the amide compounds of
   Formula (I) are "primary" amides, i.e. one of R 2 and R' is an organic group comprising at
   least three carbon atoms, while the other of R 2 and R' is hydrogen.
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) also comprise certain sub-classes of amide
10 derivatives or classes of derivatives related to amides, such as for example ureas,
   urethanes, oxalamides, acrylamides, and the like, as will be further described below.
   Many of the subgenuses and species of the "amide" compounds of Formula (I) are shown
   below to bind to and/or activate one or both of the TlR1/TlR3 "savory" ("umami")or
   TlR2/TlR3 sweet receptors in-vitro, at relatively low concentrations on the order of
15 micromolar or lower concentrations. The amide compounds are also believed to similarly
   interact with savory or sweet flavor receptors of animals or humans in vivo, as has been
   confirmed by actual human taste tests of some of compounds of Formula (I).
   Accordingly, many of the subgenuses and species of the "amide" compounds of Formula
   (I) further described hereinbelow can, at surprisingly low concentrations be used as savory
20 or sweet flavoring agents, or savory or sweet agent enhancers. Accordingly, in some
   embodiments, the invention relates to methods for modulating the savory taste of a
   comestible or medicinal product comprising:
                a)          providing at least one comestible or medicinal product, or a precursor
                            thereof, and
25              b)          combining the comestible or medicinal product or precursor thereof with at
                            least a savory flavor modulating amount, or a sweet flavor modulating
                            amount, of at least one non-naturally occurring amide compound, or a
                            comestibly acceptable salt thereof, so as to form a modified comestible or
                            medicinal product;
                                                           4
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   wherein the amide compound has the formula:
                         0
                                N   R2
                R4
                                13
                                R
                            wherein R1 comprises an organic or hydrocarbon residue having at least
                            three carbon atoms and optionally one or more heteroatoms independently
 5                          selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, halogens, or phosphorus; and
                            wherein optionally one of R2 and R3 is H, and wherein at least one of the
                            other of R2 and R comprises an organic or hydrocarbon residue having at
                            least three carbon atoms and optionally one or more heteroatoms
                            independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, halogens, or
10                          phosphorus.
   Additional optional limitations on the chemical and physical characteristics of the R', R2,
   and R3 groups will be described below. Some of the amide compounds of Formula (I)
   have been synthesized by methods known in the prior art for various purposes, but to the
   knowledge of the inventors it has not been previously recognized that such amides can be
15 utilized at very low concentrations as savory or sweet flavoring agents, or savory or sweet
   taste enhancers. Moreover many of the amide compounds of Formula (I) disclosed herein
   are novel compounds that have not been previously synthesized at all, and are effective
   savory or sweet taste flavoring agents or taste enhancers.
   The invention also relates to the comestible or medicinal products produced by the
20 processes mentioned above, and to comestible or medicinal products or compositions, or
   their precursors that contain the amide compounds of Formula (I), which include but are
   not necessarily limited to food, drink, medicinal products and compositions intended for
   oral administration, and the precursors thereof
   In many embodiments, one or more of the amide compounds of Formula (I) further
25 identified, described, and/or claimed herein, or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof, can be
   used in mixtures or in combination with other known savory or sweet compounds, or used
   as flavor enhancers in comestible food, beverage and medicinal compositions, for human
   or animal consumption.
                                                          5
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In some embodiments, the amide compounds of Formula (I), while having little or perhaps
   even no sweet or savory flavor when tasted in isolation, can be employed at very low
   concentrations in order to very significantly enhance the effectiveness of other savory or
   sweet flavor agents in a comestible or medicinal composition, or a precursor thereof. The
 5 inventions described herein also relate to the flavor-modified comestible or medicinal
   products that contain flavor modulating amounts of one or more of the amide compounds
   disclosed herein.
   Many of the amide compounds of Formula (I) and/or its various subgenuses of amide
   compounds, when used together with MSG or alone, increase or modulate a response in
10 vitro, and savory taste perception in humans at surprisingly low concentrations. In some
   embodiments, the amide compounds of the invention are TlR1/TlR3 receptor agonists and
   accordingly can induce or enhance savory taste perception in humans. These compounds
   can enhance, potentiate, modulate or induce other natural and synthetic savory flavoring
   agents.
15 In related embodiments, many of the amide compounds within the scope of Formula (I) are
   TlR2/TlR3 receptor agonists and accordingly can induce sweet taste perception in humans
   at surprisingly low concentrations. These compounds can enhance, potentiate, modulate or
   induce other natural, semi-synthetic, or synthetic sweet flavoring agents, such as for
   example sucrose, fructose, glucose, erythritol, isomalt, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol,
20 certain known natural terpenoids, flavonoids, or protein sweeteners, aspartame, saccharin,
   acesulfame-K, cyclamate, sucralose, and alitame, and the like, or a mixture thereof.
   Unexpectedly, it has also been discovered that in many embodiments of the compounds of
   Formula (I) there are significant structural similarities and/or overlaps between the amide
   compounds that can produce or enhance the sweet and savory tastes of comestible or
25 medicinal compositions, even though it is believed that the relevant biological taste
   receptor proteins are significantly different. Even more unexpectedly, it has been
   discovered that at least some of the amide compounds of Formula (I) disclosed herein can
   induce or enhance both the sweet and savory tastes of the comestible or medicinal
   products. Therefore in some aspects the invention is related to compounds of Formula (I)
30 or its various subgenuses and species compounds that modulate (e.g., induce, enhance or
   potentiate) the flavor of known natural or synthetic sweetener agents.
                                                  6
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In some embodiments, the invention relates to novel compounds, flavoring agents, flavor
   enhancers, flavor modifying compounds, and/or compositions containing the compounds
   of Formula (I), and its various subgenuses and species compounds.
   In other embodiments, the invention is directed to compounds of Formula (I) or its various
 5 subgenuses and species compounds that modulate (e.g., induce, enhance or potentiate) the
   flavor of monosodium glutamate (MSG), or synthetic savory flavoring agents.
   In some embodiments, the invention relates to comestible or medicinal compositions
   suitable for human or animal consumption, or precursors thereof, containing at least one
   compound of Formula (I), or a comestibly or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
10 These compositions will preferably include comestible products such as foods or
   beverages, medicinal products or compositions intended for oral administration, and oral
   hygiene products, and additives which when added to these products modulate the flavor
   or taste thereof, particularly by enhancing (increasing) the savory and/or sweet taste
   thereof.
15 The present invention also relates to novel genuses and species of amide compounds
   within the scope of the compounds of Formula (I), and derivatives, flavoring agents,
   comestible or medicinal products or compositions, including savory or sweet flavoring
   agents and flavor enhancers containing the same.
   The foregoing discussion merely summarizes certain aspects of the inventions and is not
20 intended, nor should it be construed, as limiting the invention in any way.
   In the present application, a first aspect of the present invention provides acrylamide
   compound of Formula (VI)
                                     0
            (R")m-A '                      N
                                           H
                                                      (VI),
          or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof; wherein
25        A is 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl ring;
          m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4;
          each Rl' is independently selected from alkoxyl and alkoxy-alkyl;
                                                    7
   10392499_1 (GHMatters)P59273.AU.5

          R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy
   alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, -R40H,      -R4CO2H,     and -R4C02R5,      or optionally
   substituted groups thereof;
          each R4 and R5 are independently an alkyl or cycloalkyl;
                                                                                      -o
                                                                                          -0
                                                                                    HN
 5        wherein the acrylamide compound is not selected from:       S
                              0
                                   H
   or
   A second aspect of the present invention provides an acrylamide compound, or a
   comestibly acceptable salt thereof, which is:
                                     N
10
   A third aspect of the present invention provides an ingestible composition comprising a
   compound of Formula (VI):
                                       0
            (R")--A                      H R2
                                         H
                                                (VI),
          or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof; wherein
15        A is 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl ring;
          m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4;
          each Rl' is independently selected from alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, and halogen;
          R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy
   alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, -R40H,      -R4CO2H,     and -R4C02R5,      or optionally
20 substituted groups thereof; and
                                                    8
   10392499_1(GHMatters) P59273.AU.5

          each R4 and R5 are independently an alkyl or cycloalkyl;
   and a comestibly acceptable excipient.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention can be understood more readily by reference to the following
 5 detailed description of various embodiments of the invention and the Examples included
   therein and to the chemical drawings and Tables and their previous and following
   description. Before the present compounds, compositions, and/or methods are disclosed
   and described, it is to be understood that unless otherwise specifically indicated by the
   claims, the invention is not limited to specific foods or food preparation methods, specific
10 comestibles or pharmaceutical carriers or formulations, or to particular modes of
   formulating the compounds of the invention into comestible or medicinal products or
   compositions intended for oral administration, because as one of ordinary skill in relevant
   arts is well aware, such things can of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the
   terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and
15 is not intended to be limiting.
   DEFINITIONS
   As used herein, the term "medicinal product" includes both solids and liquid compositions
   which are ingestible non-toxic materials which have medicinal value or comprise
   medicinally active agents such as cough syrups, cough drops, aspirin and chewable
20 medicinal tablets.
   An oral hygiene product includes solids and liquids such as toothpaste or mouthwash.
   A "comestibly, biologically or medicinally acceptable carrier or excipient" is a solid or
   liquid medium and/or composition that is used to prepare a desired dosage form of the
   inventive compound, in order to administer the inventive compound in a dispersed/diluted
25 form, so that the biological effectiveness of the inventive compound is maximized. A
   comestibly, biologically or medicinally acceptable carrier includes many common food
   ingredients, such as water at neutral, acidic, or basic pH, fruit or vegetable juices, vinegar,
   marinades, beer, wine, natural water/fat emulsions such as milk or condensed milk, edible
   oils and shortenings, fatty acids, low molecular weight oligomers of propylene glycol,
30 glyceryl esters of fatty acids, and dispersions or emulsions of such hydrophobic substances
   in aqueous media, salts such as sodium chloride, wheat flours, solvents such as ethanol,
   solid edible diluents such as vegetable powders or flours, or other liquid vehicles;
                                                   9
   10392499_1 (GHMatters)P59273.AU.5

   dispersion or suspension aids; surface active agents; isotonic agents; thickening or
   emulsifying agents, preservatives; solid binders; lubricants and the like.
   A "flavor" herein refers to the perception of taste and/or smell in a subject, which include
   sweet, sour, salty, bitter, umami, and others. The subject may be a human or an animal.
 5 A "flavoring agent" herein refers to a compound or a biologically acceptable salt thereof
   that induces a flavor or taste in a animal or a human.
   A "flavor modifier" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt thereof that
   modulates, including enhancing or potentiating, and inducing, the tastes and/or smell of a
   natural or synthetic flavoring agent in a animal or a human.
10 A "flavor enhancer" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt thereof
   that enhances the tastes or smell of a natural or synthetic flavoring agent.
   "Savory flavor" herein refers to the savory "umami" taste typically induced by MSG
   (mono sodium glutamate) in a animal or a human.
   "Savory flavoring agent," "savory compound" or "savory receptor activating compound"
15 herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt thereof that elicits a detectable
   savory flavor in a subject, e.g., MSG (mono sodium glutamate) or a compound that
   activates a TlR1/TlR3 receptor in vitro. The subject may be a human or an animal.
   "Sweet flavoring agent," "sweet compound" or "sweet receptor activating compound"
   herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt thereof that elicits a detectable
20 sweet flavor in a subject, e.g, sucrose, fructose, glucose, and other known natural
   saccharide-based sweeteners, or known artificial sweeteners such as saccharine, cyclamate,
   aspartame, and the like as is further discussed herein, or a compound that activates a
   TlR2/TlR3 receptor in vitro. The subject may be a human or an animal.
   A "savory flavor modifier" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt
25 thereof that modulates, including enhancing or potentiating, inducing, and blocking, the
   savory taste of a natural or synthetic savory flavoring agents, e.g., monosodium glutamate
   (MSG) in a animal or a human.
   A "sweet flavor modifier" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt
   thereof that modulates, including enhancing or potentiating, inducing, and blocking, the
30 sweet taste of a natural or synthetic sweet flavoring agents, e.g., sucrose, fructose, glucose,
   and other known natural saccharide-based sweeteners, or known artificial sweeteners such
   as saccharine, cyclamate, aspartame, and the like, in a animal or a human.
                                                   10
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   A "savory flavor enhancer" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt
   thereof that enhances or potentiates the savory taste of a natural or synthetic savory
   flavoring agents, e.g., monosodium glutamate (MSG) in a animal or a human.
   A "sweet flavor enhancer" herein refers to a compound or biologically acceptable salt
 5 thereof that enhances or potentiates the sweet taste of a natural or synthetic sweet flavoring
   agents, e.g., sucrose, fructose, glucose, and other known natural saccharide-based
   sweeteners, or known artificial sweeteners such as saccharine, cyclamate, aspartame, and
   the like as is further discussed herein in an animal or a human.
   An "umami receptor activating compound" herein refers to a compound that activates an
10 umami receptor, such as a TlR1/TlR3 receptor.
   A "sweet receptor activating compound" herein refers to a compound that activates a sweet
   receptor, such as a TlR2/TlR3 receptor.
   An "umami receptor modulating compound" herein refers to a compound that modulates
   (activates, enhances or blocks) an umami receptor.
15 A "sweet receptor modulating compound" herein refers to a compound that modulates
   (activates, enhances or blocks) a sweet receptor.
   An "umami receptor enhancing compound" herein refers to a compound that enhances or
   potentiates the effect of a natural or synthetic umami receptor activating compound, e.g.,
   monosodium glutamate (MSG).
20 A "sweet receptor enhancing compound" herein refers to a compound that enhances or
   potentiates the effect of a natural or synthetic sweet receptor activating compound, e.g.,
   sucrose, fructose, glucose, and other known natural saccharide-based sweeteners, or known
   artificial sweeteners such as saccharine, cyclamate, aspartame, and the like as is further
   discussed herein.
25 A "savory flavoring agent amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
   sufficient to induce savory taste in a comestible or medicinal product or composition, or a
   precursor thereof. A fairly broad range of a savory flavoring agent amount can be from
   about 0.001 ppm to 100 ppm, or a narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm.
   Alternative ranges of savory flavoring agent amounts can be from about 0.01 ppm to about
30 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or
   from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
                                                   11
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   A "sweet flavoring agent amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
   sufficient to induce sweet taste in a comestible or medicinal product or composition, or a
   precursor thereof. A fairly broad range of a sweet flavoring agent amount can be from
   about 0.001 ppm to 100 ppm, or a narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm.
 5 Alternative ranges of sweet flavoring agent amounts can be from about 0.01 ppm to about
   30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or
   from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   A "savory flavor modulating amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound of
   Formula (I) that is sufficient to alter (either increase or decrease) savory taste in a
10 comestible or medicinal product or composition, or a precursor thereof, sufficiently to be
   perceived by a human subject. A fairly broad range of a savory flavor modulating amount
   can be from about 0.001 ppm to 100 ppm, or a narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about
   10 ppm. Alternative ranges of savory flavor modulating amounts can be from about 0.01
   ppm to about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about
15 5 ppm, or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   A "sweet flavor modulating amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound of Formula
   (I) that is sufficient to alter (either increase or decrease) sweet taste in a comestible or
   medicinal product or composition, or a precursor thereof, sufficiently to be perceived by a
   human subject. A fairly broad range of a sweet flavor modulating amount can be from
20 about 0.001 ppm to 100 ppm, or a narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm.
   Alternative ranges of sweet flavor modulating amounts can be from about 0.01 ppm to
   about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm,
   or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   A "savory flavor enhancing amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
25 sufficient to enhance the taste of a natural or synthetic flavoring agents, e.g., monosodium
   glutamate (MSG) in a comestible or medicinal product or composition. A fairly broad
   range of a savory flavor enhancing amount can be from about 0.001 ppm to 100 ppm, or a
   narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm. Alternative ranges of savory flavor
   enhancing amounts can be from about 0.01 ppm to about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to
30 about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   A "sweet flavor enhancing amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
   sufficient to enhance the taste of a natural or synthetic flavoring agents, e.g., sucrose,
                                                     12
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   fructose, glucose, and other known natural saccharide-based sweeteners, or known
   artificial sweeteners such as saccharine, cyclamate, aspertame, and the like as is further
   discussed herein) in a comestible or medicinal product or composition. A fairly broad
   range of a sweet flavor enhancing amount can be from about 0.00 1 ppm to 100 ppm , or a
 5 narrow range from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm. Alternative ranges of sweet flavor
   enhancing amounts can be from about 0.01 ppm to about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to
   about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   An "umami receptor modulating amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
   sufficient to modulate (activate, enhance or block) an umami receptor. A preferable range
10 of an umami receptor modulating amount is 1 pM to 100 mM and most preferably 1 nM to
   100 pM and most preferably InM to 30 pM. A fairly broad range of a umami flavor
   enhancing amount can be from about 0.00 1 ppm to 100 ppm , or a narrow range from
   about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm. Alternative ranges of umami flavor enhancing amounts
   can be from about 0.01 ppm to about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from
15 about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
   A "TlR1/TlR3 receptor modulating or activating amount" is an amount of compound that
   is sufficient to modulate or activate a TlR1/TlR3 receptor. These amounts are preferably
   the same as the umami receptor modulating amounts.
   An "umami receptor" is a taste receptor that can be modulated by a savory compound.
20 Preferably an umami receptor is a G protein coupled receptor, and more preferably the
   umami receptor is a TlR1/TlR3 receptor.
   Compounds of the invention modulate an umami receptor and preferably are agonists of
   the TlR1/TlR3 receptor. An agonist of this receptor has the effect of activating the G
   protein signaling cascade. In many cases, this agonist effect of the compound on the
25 receptor also produces a perceived savory flavor in a taste test. It is desirable, therefore,
   that such inventive compounds serve as a replacement for MSG, which is not tolerated by
   some in, for example, comestible products.
   In addition, this agonist effect also is responsible for the synergistic savory taste effect,
   which occurs when a compound of the invention is combined with another savory
30 flavoring agent such as MSG. The nucleotides, IMP or GMP, are conventionally added to
   MSG, to intensify the savory flavor of MSG, so that relatively less MSG is needed to
   provide the same savory flavor in comparison to MSG alone. Therefore, it is desirable
                                                   13
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   that combining compounds of the invention with another savory flavoring agent such as
   MSG advantageously eliminates the need to add expensive nucleotides, such as IMP, as a
   flavor enhancer, while concomitantly reducing or eliminating the amount of a savory
   compound such as MSG needed to provide the same savory flavor in comparison to the
 5 savory compound or MSG alone.
   A "sweet receptor modulating amount" herein refers to an amount of a compound that is
   sufficient to modulate (activate, enhance or block) a sweet receptor. A preferable range of
   an sweet receptor modulating amount is 1 pM to 100 mM and most preferably 1 nM to 100
   pM and most preferably InM to 30 pM.
10 A "TlR2/TlR3 receptor modulating or activating amount" is an amount of compound that
   is sufficient to modulate or activate a TlR2/TlR3 receptor. These amounts are preferably
   the same as the sweet receptor modulating amounts.
   A "sweet receptor" is a taste receptor that can be modulated by a sweet compound.
   Preferably an sweet receptor is a G protein coupled receptor, and more preferably the
15 umami receptor is a TlR2/TlR3 receptor.
   Many compounds of Formula (I) can modulate a sweet receptor and preferably are agonists
   of the TlR2/TlR3 receptor. An agonist of this receptor has the effect of activating the G
   protein signaling cascade. In many cases, this agonist effect of the compound on the
   receptor also produces a perceived sweet flavor in a taste test. It is desirable, therefore,
20 that such inventive compounds serve as a replacement for sucrose, fructose, glucose, and
   other known natural saccharide-based sweeteners, or known artificial sweeteners such as
   saccharine, cyclamate, aspartame, and the like, or mixtures thereof as is further discussed
   herein.
   A "synergistic effect" relates to the enhanced savory and/or sweet flavor of a combination
25 of savory and/or or sweet compounds or receptor activating compounds, in comparison to
   the sum of the taste effects or flavor associated effects associated with each individual
   compound. In the case of savory enhancer compounds, a synergistic effect on the
   effectiveness of MSG may be indicated for a compound of Formula (I) having an EC50
   ratio (defined hereinbelow) of 2.0 or more, or preferably 5.0 or more, or 10.0 or more, or
30 15.0 or more. An EC50 assay for sweet enhancement has not yet been developed, but in
   the case of both savory and sweet enhancer compounds, a synergistic effect can be
   confirmed by human taste tests, as described elsewhere herein.
                                                  14
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   When the compounds described here include one or more chiral centers, the
   stereochemistry of such chiral centers can independently be in the R or S configuration, or
   a mixture of the two. The chiral centers can be further designated as R or S or R,S or d,D,
   1,L or d,1, D,L. Correspondingly, the amide compounds of the invention, if they can be
 5 present in optically active form, can actually be present in the form of a racemic mixture of
   enantiomers, or in the form of either of the separate enantiomers in substantially isolated
   and purified form, or as a mixture comprising any relative proportions of the enantiomers.
   Regarding the compounds described herein, the suffix "ene" added to any of the described
   terms means that the substituent is connected to two other parts in the compound. For
10 example, "alkylene " is (CH2)n, "alkenylene" is such a moiety that contains a double bond
   and "alkynylene" is such a moiety that contains a triple bond.
   As used herein, "hydrocarbon residue" refers to a chemical sub-group within a larger
   chemical compound which has only carbon and hydrogen atoms. The hydrocarbon residue
   may be aliphatic or aromatic, straight-chain, cyclic, branched, saturated or unsaturated.
15 The hydrocarbon residue, when so stated however, may contain or be substituted with
   heteroatoms such as 0, S or N, or the halogens (fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine), or
   substituent groups containing heteroatoms (OH, NH2, N02, SO3H, and the like) over and
   above the carbon and hydrogen atoms of the substituent residue. Thus, when specifically
   noted as containing such heteroatoms, or designated as "substituted," the hydrocarbon
20 residue may also contain carbonyl groups, amino groups, hydroxyl groups and the like, or
   contain heteroatoms inserted into the "backbone" of the hydrocarbon residue.
   As used herein, "inorganic residue" refers to a residue that does not contain carbon, but
   contains at least some heteroatoms, including 0, N, S, one or more halogens, or alkali
   metal or alkaline earth metal ions. Examples include, but are not limited to H, Na+, Ca++
25 and K+, halo, hydroxy, N02 or NH2.
   As used herein, the term "alkyl," "alkenyl" and "alkynyl" include straight- and branched
   chain and cyclic monovalent substituents that respectively are saturated, unsaturated with
   at least one double bond, and unsaturated with at least one triple bond.
   "Alkyl" refers to a hydrocarbon group that can be conceptually formed from an alkane by
30 removing hydrogen from the structure of a hydrocarbon compound having straight or
   branched carbon chains, and replacing the hydrogen atom with another atom or substitutent
   group. In some embodiments of the invention, the alkyl groups are "C1 to C6 alkyl" such
                                                 15
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, amyl, tert-amyl,
   hexyl and the like. In some embodiments of the invention "C1 to C4 alkyl" groups
   (alternatively termed "lower alkyl" groups are methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl t
   butyl, and iso-propyl. Some of the preferred alkyl groups of the invention have three or
 5 more carbon atoms preferably 3 to 16 carbon atoms, 4 to 14 carbon atoms, or 6 to 12
   carbon atoms.
   Preferred alkenyl groups are "C2 to C7 alkenyl" such as vinyl, allyl, 2-butenyl, 3-butenyl,
   2-pentenyl, 3-pentenyl, 4-pentenyl, 2-hexenyl, 3-hexenyl, 4-hexenyl, 5-hexenyl,
   2-heptenyl, 3-heptenyl, 4-heptenyl, 5-heptenyl, 6-heptenyl, as well as dienes and trienes of
10 straight and branched chains.
   Preferred alkynyl groups are "C2 to C7 alkynyl" such as ethynyl, propynyl, 2-butynyl,
   2-pentynyl, 3-pentynyl, 2- hexynyl, 3-hexynyl, 4-hexynyl, 2-heptynyl, 3-heptynyl, 4
   heptynyl, 5-heptynyl as well as di- and tri-ynes of straight and branched chains including
   ene-ynes.
15 Hydrocarbon residues may be optionally substituted. Two of said optional substituents on
   adjacent positions can be joined to form a fused, optionally substituted aromatic or
   nonaromatic, saturated or unsaturated ring which contains 3-8 members. Optional
   substituents are generally hydrocarbon residues that may contain one or more heteroatoms
   or an inorganic residue such as H, Na+, Ca 2 + or K+.
20 The terms "substituted alkyl," "substituted alkenyl," "substituted alkynyl," and
   "substituted alkylene" denote that the alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl and alkylene groups are
   substituted by one or more, and preferably one or two substituents, preferably halogen,
   hydroxy, C1 to C7 alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, oxo, C3 to C7 cycloalkyl, naphthyl, amino,
   (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, guanidino, heterocycle, substituted
25 heterocycle, imidazolyl, indolyl, pyrrolidinyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro,
   carboxy, carbamoyl, carboxamide, N-(Cl to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N,N-di(Cl to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, cyano, methylsulfonylamino, thiol, C1 to C4 alkylthio or C1 to C4
   alkylsulfonyl groups. The substituted alkyl groups may be substituted once or more, and
   preferably once or twice, with the same or with different substituents. In many
30 embodiments of the invention, a preferred group of substituent groups include hydroxy,
   fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl,
   vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups. In
                                                  16
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   many embodiments of the invention that comprise the above lists of substituent groups, an
   even more preferred group of substituent groups include hydroxy, SEt, SCH3, methyl,
   ethyl, isopropyl, methoxy, and ethoxy groups.
   Examples of the above substituted alkyl groups include the 2-oxo-prop-1-yl,
 5 3-oxo-but-1-yl, cyanomethyl, nitromethyl, chloromethyl, hydroxymethyl,
   tetrahydropyranyloxymethyl, trityloxymethyl, propionyloxymethyl, aminomethyl,
   carboxymethyl, allyloxycarbonylmethyl, allyloxycarbonylaminomethyl, methoxymethyl,
   ethoxymethyl, t-butoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, chloromethyl, trifluoromethyl,
   6-hydroxyhexyl, 2,4-dichloro(n-butyl), 2-aminopropyl, 1-chloroethyl, 2-chloroethyl, 1
10 bromoethyl, 2-chloroethyl, 1-fluoroethyl, 2-fluoroethyl, 1- iodoethyl, 2-iodoethyl,
   1-chloropropyl, 2-chloropropyl, 3- chloropropyl, 1-bromopropyl, 2-bromopropyl,
   3-bromopropyl, 1-fluoropropyl, 2-fluoropropyl, 3-fluoropropyl, 2-aminoethyl, 1
   aminoethyl, N-benzoyl-2-aminoethyl, N-acetyl-2-aminoethyl, N-benzoyl-1-aminoethyl,
   N-acetyl- 1-aminoethyl and the like.
15 Examples of the above substituted alkenyl groups include styrenyl, 3-chloro-propen-1-yl,
   3-chloro-buten-1-yl, 3-methoxy-propen-2-yl, 3-phenyl-buten-2-yl, 1-cyano-buten-3-yl and
   the like. The geometrical isomerism is not critical, and all geometrical isomers for a given
   substituted alkenyl can be used.
   Examples of the above substituted alkynyl groups include phenylacetylen-1-yl,
20 1-phenyl-2-propyn-1-yl and the like.
   The term "oxo" denotes a carbon atom bonded to two additional carbon atoms substituted
   with an oxygen atom doubly bonded to the carbon atom, thereby forming a ketone moiety.
   "Alkoxy" refers to an OR group, wherein R is an alkyl or substituted alkyl.
   "Alkoxy-alkyl" refers to an alkyl group containing an alkoxy.
25 Preferred alkoxy groups are "C1 to C7 alkoxy" such as methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy,
   isopropoxy, n-butoxy, t-butoxy and like groups. The term "C1 to C7 substituted alkoxy"
   means the alkyl portion of the alkoxy can be substituted in the same manner as in relation
   to C1 to C6 substituted alkyl. Similarly, the term "C1 to C7 phenylalkoxy" as used herein
   means "C1 to C7 alkoxy" bonded to a phenyl radical.
30 "Acyloxy" refers to an OR group where R is an acyl group. Preferred acyloxy groups are
   "C1 to C7 acyloxy" such as formyloxy, acetoxy, propionyloxy, butyryloxy, pivaloyloxy,
   pentanoyloxy, hexanoyloxy, heptanoyloxy and the like.
                                                 17
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   As used herein, "acyl" encompasses the definitions of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl and the
   related hetero-forms which are coupled to an additional residue through a carbonyl group.
   Preferred acyl groups are "C1 to C7 acyl" such as formyl, acetyl, propionyl, butyryl,
   pentanoyl, pivaloyl, hexanoyl, heptanoyl, benzoyl and the like. More preferred acyl
 5 groups are acetyl and benzoyl.
   The term "substituted acyl" denotes the acyl group substituted by one or more, and
   preferably one or two, halogen, hydroxy, oxo, alkyl, cycloalkyl, naphthyl, amino,
   (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, guanidino, heterocyclic ring, substituted
   heterocyclic ring, imidazolyl, indolyl, pyrrolidinyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to
10 C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl ester, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl,
   carbamoyl, carboxamide, N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N,N-di(C 1 to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, cyano, methylsulfonylamino, thiol, C1 to C4 alkylthio or C1 to C4
   alkylsulfonyl groups. The substituted acyl groups may be substituted once or more, and
   preferably once or twice, with the same or with different substituents.
15 Examples of C1 to C7 substituted acyl groups include 4-phenylbutyroyl, 3-phenylbutyroyl,
   3 phenylpropanoyl, 2- cyclohexanylacetyl, cyclohexanecarbonyl, 2-furanoyl and 3
   dimethylaminobenzoyl.
   Cycloalkyl residues are hydrocarbon groups within a molecule that comprise at least one
   ring having 3 to 8 carbon atoms linked into a ring. Examples of such cyclalkyl residues
20 include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl rings,
   and saturated bicyclic or fused polycyclic cycloalkanes such as decalin groups, norbornyl
   groups, and the like.
   Preferred cycloalkyl groups include "C3 to C7 cycloalkyl" such as cyclopropyl,
   cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl rings. Similarly, the term "C5 to C7
25 cycloalkyl" includes the cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl rings.
   "Substituted cycloalkyl" indicates the above cycloalkyl rings are substituted preferably by
   one or two halogen, hydroxy, , C1 to C4 alkylthio, C1 to C4 alkylsulfoxide, C1 to C4
   alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C4 substituted alkylthio, C1 to C4 substituted alkylsulfoxide, C1 to C4
   substituted alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C1
30 to C7 alkoxy-alkyl, oxo (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, trifluoromethyl,
   carboxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylthio, phenylsulfoxide, phenylsulfonyl, amino.
   In many embodiments of substituted cycloalkyl groups, the substituted cycloalkyl group
                                                  18
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   will have 1, 2, 3, or 4 substituent groups independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro,
   chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
   trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   The term "cycloalkylene" means a cycloalkyl, as defined above, where the cycloalkyl
 5 radical is bonded at two positions connecting together two separate additional groups.
   Similarly, the term "substituted cycloalkylene" means a cycloalkylene where the
   cycloalkyl radical is bonded at two positions connecting together two separate additional
   groups and further bearing at least one additional substituent.
   The term "cycloalkenyl" indicates preferably a 1,2, or 3-cyclopentenyl ring, a 1,2,3 or
10 4-cyclohexenyl ring or a 1,2,3,4 or 5-cycloheptenyl ring, while the term "substituted
   cycloalkenyl" denotes the above cycloalkenyl rings substituted with a substituent,
   preferably by a C1 to C6 alkyl, halogen, hydroxy, C1 to C7 alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl,
   trifluoromethyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl oxo, (monosubstituted)amino,
   (disubstituted)amino, phenyl, substituted phenyl, amino, or protected amino.
15 The term "cycloalkenylene" is a cycloalkenyl ring, as defined above, where the
   cycloalkenyl radical is bonded at two positions connecting together two separate additional
   groups. Similarly, the term "substituted cycloalkenylene" means a cycloalkenylene further
   substituted preferably by halogen, hydroxy, C1 to C4 alkylthio, C1 to C4 alkylsulfoxide,
   C1 to C4 alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C4 substituted alkylthio, C1 to C4 substituted alkylsulfoxide,
20 C1 to C4 substituted alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C6 substituted
   alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy-alkyl, oxo, (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino,
   trifluoromethyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylthio,
   phenylsulfoxide, phenylsulfonyl, amino, or substituted amino group.
   The term "heterocycle" or "heterocyclic ring" denotes optionally substituted 3 to 8
25 membered rings having one or more carbon atoms connected in a ring that also have 1 to 5
   heteroatoms, such as oxygen, sulfur and/or nitrogen inserted into the ring. These 3 to
   8-membered rings may be saturated, unsaturated or partially unsaturated, but are preferably
   saturated. An "amino-substituted heterocyclic ring" means any one of the above-described
   heterocyclic rings is substituted with at least one amino group. Preferred heterocyclic
30 rings include furanyl, thiofuranyl, piperidyl, pyridyl, morpholino, aziridinyl, piperidinyl,
   piperazinyl, tetrahydrofurano, pyrrolo, and tetrahydrothiophen-yl.
                                                   19
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   The term "substituted heterocycle" or "substituted heterocyclic ring" means the
   above-described heterocyclic ring is substituted with, for example, one or more, and
   preferably one or two, substituents which are the same or different which substituents
   preferably can be halogen, hydroxy, thio, alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7
 5 alkoxy, C1 to C7 substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy,
   carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, alkoxy-alkyl amino,
   monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino carboxamide, N-(C 1to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-di(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl, N-((C 1 to C6
   alkyl)sulfonyl)amino, N-(phenylsulfonyl)amino groups, or substituted with a fused ring,
10 such as benzo-ring. In many embodiments of substituted heterocyclic groups, the
   substituted cycloalkyl group will have 1, 2, 3, or 4 substituent groups independently
   selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3,
   methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
   trifluoromethoxy groups.
15 An "aryl" groups refers to a monocyclic aromatic, linked bicyclic aromatic or fused
   bicyclic aromatic moiety comprising at least one six membered aromatic "benzene" ring,
   preferably comprising between 6 and 12 ring carbon atoms, such as phenyl, biphenyl or
   naphthyl groups, which may be optionally substituted with various organic and/or
   inorganic substitutent groups, wherein the substituted aryl group and its substituents
20 comprise between 6 and 18, or preferably 6 and 16 total carbon atoms. Preferred optional
   substituent groups include 1, 2, 3, or 4 substituent groups independently selected from
   hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy
   groups.
25 The term "heteroaryl" means a heterocyclic aryl derivative which preferably contains a
   five-membered or six-membered conjugated and aromatic ring system having from 1 to 4
   heteroatoms, such as oxygen, sulfur and/or nitrogen, inserted into the unsaturated and
   conjugated heterocyclic ring. Heteroaryl groups include monocyclic heteroaromatic,
   linked bicyclic heteroaromatic or fused bicyclic heteroaromatic moieties. Examples of
30 heteroaryls include pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl, and pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl,
   thiofuranyl, oxazoloyl, isoxazolyl, phthalimido, thiazolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl,
   indolyl, or a furan or thiofuran directly bonded to a phenyl, pyridyl, or pyrrolyl ring and
                                                  20
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   like unsaturated and conjugated heteroaromatic rings. Any monocyclic, linked bicyclic, or
   fused bicyclic heteroaryl ring system which has the characteristics of aromaticity in terms
   of electron distribution throughout the ring system is included in this definition. Typically,
   the heteroaromatic ring systems contain 3-12 ring carbon atoms and 1 to 5 ring
 5 heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur atoms.
   The term "substituted heteroaryl" means the above-described heteroaryl is substituted with,
   for example, one or more, and preferably one or two, substituents which are the same or
   different which substituents preferably can be halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, thio,
   alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 substituted alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to
10 C7 substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 substituted acyl, C1 to C7
   acyloxy, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, amino,
   (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, carboxamide, N-(Cl to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-di(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl, N-((C 1 to C6
   alkyl)sulfonyl)amino or N-(phenylsulfonyl)amino groups. In many embodiments of
15 substituted heteroaryl groups, the substituted cycloalkyl group will have 1, 2, 3, or 4
   substituent groups independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3,
   N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
   ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   Similarly, "arylalkyl" and "heteroarylalkyl" refer to aromatic and heteroaromatic systems
20 which are coupled to another residue through a carbon chain, including substituted or
   unsubstituted, saturated or unsaturated, carbon chains, typically of 1-6C. These carbon
   chains may also include a carbonyl group, thus making them able to provide substituents as
   an acyl moiety. Preferably, arylalkyl or heteroarylalkyl is an alkyl group substituted at any
   position by an aryl group, substituted aryl, heteroaryl or substituted heteroaryl. Preferred
25 groups also include benzyl, 2-phenylethyl, 3-phenyl-propyl, 4-phenyl-n-butyl, 3-phenyl
   n-amyl, 3-phenyl-2-butyl, 2-pyridinylmethyl, 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl, and the like.
   The term "substituted arylalkyl" denotes an arylalkyl group substituted on the alkyl portion
   with one or more, and preferably one or two, groups preferably chosen from halogen,
   hydroxy, oxo, amino, (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, guanidino,
30 heterocyclic ring, substituted heterocyclic ring, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl,
   C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C7 substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7
   substituted acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, carbamoyl,
                                                 21
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   carboxamide, N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-(C 1 to C6 dialkyl)carboxamide,
   cyano, N-(C 1 to C6 alkylsulfonyl)amino, thiol, C1 to C4 alkylthio, C1 to C4 alkylsulfonyl
   groups; and/or the phenyl group may be substituted with one or more, and preferably one
   or two, substituents preferably chosen from halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, thio,
 5 alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to
   C7 substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 substituted acyl, C1 to C7
   acyloxy, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, amino,
   (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, carboxamide, N-(Cl to C6 alkyl)
   carboxamide, N, N-di(Cl to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl, N-((Cl to C6
10 alkyl)sulfonyl)amino, N-(phenylsulfonyl)amino, cyclic C2 to C7 alkylene or a phenyl
   group, substituted or unsubstituted, for a resulting biphenyl group. The substituted alkyl or
   phenyl groups may be substituted with one or more, and preferably one or two,
   substituents which can be the same or different.
   Examples of the term "substituted arylalkyl" include groups such as
15 2-phenyl- 1-chloroethyl, 2-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethyl, 4-(2,6-dihydroxy phenyl)-n-hexyl,
   2-(5-cyano-3-methoxyphenyl)-n-pentyl, 3-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)propyl,
   4-chloro-3-aminobenzyl, 6-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3-carboxy-n-hexyl,
   5-(4-aminomethylphenyl)- 3-(aminomethyl)-n-pentyl, 5-phenyl-3-oxo-n-pent-1-yl and the
   like.
20 The term "arylalkylene" specifies an arylalkyl, as defined above, where the arylalkyl
   radical is bonded at two positions connecting together two separate additional groups. The
   definition includes groups of the formula: -phenyl-alkyl- and alkyl-phenyl-alkyl-.
   Substitutions on the phenyl ring can be 1,2, 1,3 or 1,4. The term "substituted arylalkylene"
   is an arylalkylene as defined above that is further substituted preferably by halogen,
25 hydroxy, protected hydroxy, C1 to C4 alkylthio, C1 to C4 alkylsulfoxide, C1 to C4
   alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C4 substituted alkylthio, C1 to C4 substituted alkylsulfoxide, C1 to C4
   substituted alkylsulfonyl, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C1
   to C7 alkoxy-alkyl, oxo, (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, trifluoromethyl,
   carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylthio, phenylsulfoxide,
30 phenylsulfonyl, amino, or protected amino group on the phenyl ring or on the alkyl group.
   The term "substituted phenyl" specifies a phenyl group substituted with one or more, and
   preferably one or two, moieties preferably chosen from the groups consisting of halogen,
                                                 22
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   hydroxy, protected hydroxy, thio, alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C6
   substituted alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C7 substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7
   acyl, C1 to C7 substituted acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl,
   carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, amino, (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino,
 5 carboxamide, N-(Cl to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-di(Cl to C6 alkyl)carboxamide,
   trifluoromethyl, N-((C 1 to C6 alkyl)sulfonyl)amino, N-(phenylsulfonyl)amino or phenyl,
   wherein the phenyl is substituted or unsubstituted, such that, for example, a biphenyl
   results. In many embodiments of substituted phenyl groups, the substituted cycloalkyl
   group will have 1, 2, 3, or 4 substituent groups independently selected from hydroxy,
10 fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl,
   vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   The term "phenoxy" denotes a phenyl bonded to an oxygen atom. The term "substituted
   phenoxy" specifies a phenoxy group substituted with one or more, and preferably one or
   two, moieties preferably chosen from the groups consisting of halogen, hydroxy, protected
15 hydroxy, thio, alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C7
   substituted alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, carboxy,
   alkoxycarbonyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, amino, (monosubstituted)amino,
   (disubstituted)amino, carboxamide, N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-di(C 1 to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl, N-((Cl to C6 alkyl)sulfonyl)amino and
20 N-phenylsulfonyl)amino.
   The term "substituted phenylalkoxy" denotes a phenylalkoxy group wherein the alkyl
   portion is substituted with one or more, and preferably one or two, groups preferably
   selected from halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, oxo, amino, (monosubstituted)amino,
   (disubstituted)amino, guanidino, heterocyclic ring, substituted heterocyclic ring, C1 to C7
25 alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, nitro, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl,
   carbamoyl, carboxamide, N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-(C 1 to C6
   dialkyl)carboxamide, cyano, N-(C 1 to C6 alkylsulfonyl)amino, thiol, C1 to C4 alkylthio,
   C1 to C4 alkylsulfonyl groups; and/or the phenyl group can be substituted with one or
   more, and preferably one or two, substituents preferably chosen from halogen, hydroxy,
30 protected hydroxy, thio, alkylthio, cyano, nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, alkoxy
   alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl carboxymethyl,
   hydroxymethyl, amino, (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino, carboxamide,
                                                 23
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl) carboxamide, N, N-di(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl,
   N ((Cl to C6 alkyl)sulfonyl)amino, N-(phenylsulfonyl)amino or a phenyl group,
   substituted or unsubstituted, for a resulting biphenyl group. The substituted alkyl or
   phenyl groups may be substituted with one or more, and preferably one or two,
 5 substituents which can be the same or different.
   The term "substituted naphthyl" specifies a naphthyl group substituted with one or more,
   and preferably one or two, moieties either on the same ring or on different rings chosen
   from the groups consisting of halogen, hydroxy, protected hydroxy, thio, alkylthio, cyano,
   nitro, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 acyloxy,
10 carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethyl, amino, (monosubstituted)amino,
   (disubstituted)amino, carboxamide, N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide, N, N-di(C 1 to C6
   alkyl)carboxamide, trifluoromethyl, N-((C 1 to C6 alkyl)sulfonyl)amino or
   N (phenylsulfonyl)amino.
   The terms "halo" and "halogen" refer to the fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo atoms. There
15 can be one or more halogen, which are the same or different. Preferred halogens are chloro
   and fluoro. Although many of the compounds of the invention having halogen atoms as
   substituents are very effective in binding to the relevant taste receptors, such halogenated
   organic compounds can often have undesirable toxicological properties when administered
   to an animal in vivo. Therefore, in many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), if
20 a halogen atom (including a fluoro or chloro atom) is listed as a possible substitutent atom,
   an alternative preferred group of substitutents would NOT include the halogen, fluorine, or
   chlorine groups.
   The term "(monosubstituted)amino" refers to an amino group with one substituent
   preferably chosen from the group consisting of phenyl, substituted phenyl, C1 to C6 alkyl,
25 C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C7 substituted acyl, C2 to C7 alkenyl, C2
   to C7 substituted alkenyl, C2 to C7 alkynyl, C2 to C7 substituted alkynyl, C7 to C12
   phenylalkyl, C7 to C12 substituted phenylalkyl and heterocyclic ring. The
   (monosubstituted)amino can additionally have an amino-protecting group as encompassed
   by the term "protected (monosubstituted)amino."
30 The term "(disubstituted)amino" refers to an amino group substituted preferably with two
   substituents chosen from the group consisting of phenyl, substituted phenyl, C1 to C6
   alkyl, C1 to C6 substituted alkyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C2 to C7 alkenyl, C2 to C7 alkynyl, C7 to
                                                  24
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   C12 phenylalkyl, and C7 to C12 substituted phenylalkyl. The two substituents can be the
   same or different.
   The term "amino-protecting group" as used herein refers to substituents of the amino group
   commonly employed to block or protect the amino functionality while reacting other
 5 functional groups of the molecule. The term "protected (monosubstituted)amino" means
   there is an amino-protecting group on the monosubstituted amino nitrogen atom. In
   addition, the term "protected carboxamide" means there is an amino-protecting group on
   the carboxamide nitrogen. Similarly, the term "protected N-(C 1 to C6 alkyl)carboxamide"
   means there is an amino-protecting group on the carboxamide nitrogen.
10 The term "alkylthio" refers to sulfide groups such as methylthio, ethylthio, n-propylthio,
   isopropylthio, n-butylthio, t-butylthio and like groups.
   The term "alkylsulfoxide" indicates sulfoxide groups such as methylsulfoxide,
   ethylsulfoxide, n-propylsulfoxide, isopropylsulfoxide, n-butylsulfoxide, sec-butylsulfoxide
   and the like.
15 The term "alkylsulfonyl" encompasses groups such as methylsulfonyl, ethylsulfonyl,
   n-propylsulfonyl, isopropylsulfonyl, n-butylsulfonyl, t-butylsulfonyl and the like.
   The terms "substituted alkylthio," "substituted alkylsulfoxide," and "substituted
   alkylsulfonyl," denote the alkyl portion of these groups may be substituted as described
   above in relation to "substituted alkyl."
20 The terms "phenylthio," "phenylsulfoxide," and "phenylsulfonyl" specify a thiol, a
   sulfoxide, or sulfone, respectively, containing a phenyl group. The terms "substituted
   phenylthio," "substituted phenylsulfoxide," and "substituted phenylsulfonyl" means that
   the phenyl of these groups can be substituted as described above in relation to "substituted
   phenyl."
25 The term "alkoxycarbonyl" means an "alkoxy" group attached to a carobonyl group. The
   term "substituted alkoxycarbonyl" denotes a substituted alkoxy bonded to the carbonyl
   group, which alkoxy may be substituted as described above in relation to substituted alkyl.
   The term "phenylene" means a phenyl group where the phenyl radical is bonded at two
   positions connecting together two separate additional groups. Examples of "phenylene"
30 includes 1,2-phenylene, 1,3-phenylene, and 1,4-phenylene.
   The term "substituted alkylene" means an alkyl group where the alkyl radical is bonded at
   two positions connecting together two separate additional groups and further bearing an
                                                  25
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   additional substituent. Examples of "substituted alkylene" includes aminomethylene,
   1-(amino)- 1,2-ethyl, 2-(amino)- 1,2-ethyl, 1-(acetamido)-1,2-ethyl,
   2-(acetamido)- 1,2-ethyl, 2-hydroxy- 1,1-ethyl, 1-(amino)- 1,3-propyl.
   The term "substituted phenylene" means a phenyl group where the phenyl radical is
 5 bonded at two positions connecting together two separate additional groups, wherein the
   phenyl is substituted as described above in relation to "substituted phenyl."
   The terms "cyclic alkylene," "substituted cyclic alkylene," "cyclic heteroalkylene," and
   "substituted cyclic heteroalkylene," defines such a cyclic group bonded ("fused") to the
   phenyl radical resulting in a bicyclic ring system. The cyclic group may be saturated or
10 contain one or two double bonds. Furthermore, the cyclic group may have one or two
   methylene or methine groups replaced by one or two oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur atoms
   which are the cyclic heteroalkylene.
   The cyclic alkylene or heteroalkylene group may be substituted once or twice by the same
   or different substituents preferably selected from the group consisting of the following
15 moieties: hydroxy, protected hydroxy, carboxy, protected carboxy, oxo, protected oxo, C1
   to C4 acyloxy, formyl, C1 to C7 acyl, C1 to C6 alkyl, C1 to C7 alkoxy, C1 to C4 alkylthio,
   C1 to C4 alkylsulfoxide, C1 to C4 alkylsulfonyl, halo, amino, protected amino,
   (monosubstituted)amino, protected (monosubstituted)amino, (disubstituted)amino,
   hydroxymethyl or a protected hydroxymethyl.
20 The cyclic alkylene or heteroalkylene group fused onto the benzene radical can contain
   two to ten ring members, but it preferably contains three to six members. Examples of
   such saturated cyclic groups are when the resultant bicyclic ring system is
   2,3-dihydro-indanyl and a tetralin ring. When the cyclic groups are unsaturated, examples
   occur when the resultant bicyclic ring system is a naphthyl ring or indolyl. Examples of
25 fused cyclic groups which each contain one nitrogen atom and one or more double bond,
   preferably one or two double bonds, are when the benzene radical is fused to a pyridino,
   pyrano, pyrrolo, pyridinyl, dihydropyrrolo, or dihydropyridinyl ring. Examples of fused
   cyclic groups which each contain one oxygen atom and one or two double bonds are when
   the benzene radical ring is fused to a furo, pyrano, dihydrofurano, or dihydropyrano ring.
30 Examples of fused cyclic groups which each have one sulfur atom and contain one or two
   double bonds are when the benzene radical is fused to a thieno, thiopyrano, dihydrothieno
   or dihydrothiopyrano ring. Examples of cyclic groups which contain two heteroatoms
                                                  26
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   selected from sulfur and nitrogen and one or two double bonds are when the benzene
   radical ring is fused to a thiazolo, isothiazolo, dihydrothiazolo or dihydroisothiazolo ring.
   Examples of cyclic groups which contain two heteroatoms selected from oxygen and
   nitrogen and one or two double bonds are when the benzene ring is fused to an oxazolo,
 5 isoxazolo, dihydrooxazolo or dihydroisoxazolo ring. Examples of cyclic groups which
   contain two nitrogen heteroatoms and one or two double bonds occur when the benzene
   ring is fused to a pyrazolo, imidazolo, dihydropyrazolo or dihydroimidazolo ring or
   pyrazinyl.
   The term "carbamoyl" means a -NCO- group where the radical is bonded at two positions
10 connecting two separate additional groups.
   One or more of the compounds of the invention, may be present as a salt. The term "salt"
   encompasses those salts that form with the carboxylate anions and amine nitrogens and
   include salts formed with the organic and inorganic anions and cations discussed below.
   Furthermore, the term includes salts that form by standard acid-base reactions with basic
15 groups (such as amino groups) and organic or inorganic acids. Such acids include
   hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, trifluoroacetic, sulfuric, phosphoric, acetic, succinic, citric,
   lactic, maleic, fumaric, palmitic, cholic, pamoic, mucic, D-glutamic, D-camphoric,
   glutaric, phthalic, tartaric, lauric, stearic, salicyclic, methanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic,
   sorbic, picric, benzoic, cinnamic, and like acids.
20 The term "organic or inorganic cation" refers to counter-ions for the carboxylate anion of a
   carboxylate salt. The counter-ions are chosen from the alkali and alkaline earth metals,
   (such as lithium, sodium, potassium, barium, aluminum and calcium); ammonium and
   mono-, di- and tri-alkyl amines such as trimethylamine, cyclohexylamine; and the organic
   cations, such as dibenzylammonium, benzylammonium, 2-hydroxyethylammonium,
25 bis(2-hydroxyethyl)ammonium, phenylethylbenzylammonium,
   dibenzylethylenediammonium, and like cations. See, for example, "Pharmaceutical Salts,"
   Berge, et al., J.Pharm. Sci. (1977) 66:1-19, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Other cations encompassed by the above term include the protonated form of procaine,
   quinine and N-methylglucosamine, and the protonated forms of basic amino acids such as
30 glycine, ornithine, histidine, phenylglycine, lysine and arginine. Furthermore, any
   zwitterionic form of the instant compounds formed by a carboxylic acid and an amino
   group is referred to by this term. For example, a cation for a carboxylate anion will exist
                                                      27
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   when R2 or R3 is substituted with a (quaternary ammonium)methyl group. A preferred
   cation for the carboxylate anion is the sodium cation.
   The compounds of the invention can also exist as solvates and hydrates. Thus, these
   compounds may crystallize with, for example, waters of hydration, or one, a number of, or
 5 any fraction thereof of molecules of the mother liquor solvent. The solvates and hydrates
   of such compounds are included within the scope of this invention.
   The term "amino acid" includes any one of the twenty naturally-occurring amino acids or
   the D-form of any one of the naturally-occurring amino acids. In addition, the term
   "amino acid" also includes other non-naturally occurring amino acids besides the D-amino
10 acids, which are functional equivalents of the naturally-occurring amino acids. Such
   non-naturally-occurring amino acids include, for example, norleucine ("Nle"), norvaline
   ("Nva"), L- or D- naphthalanine, ornithine ("Orn"), homoarginine (homoArg) and others
   well known in the peptide art, such as those described in M. Bodanzsky, "Principles of
   Peptide Synthesis," 1st and 2nd revised ed., Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1984 and
15 1993, and Stewart and Young, "Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis," 2nd ed., Pierce Chemical
   Co., Rockford, IL, 1984, both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Amino acids
   and amino acid analogs can be purchased commercially (Sigma Chemical Co.; Advanced
   Chemtech) or synthesized using methods known in the art.
   "Amino acid side chain" refers to any side chain from the above-described "amino acids."
20 "Substituted" herein refers to a substituted moiety, such as a hydrocarbon, e.g., substituted
   alkyl or benzyl wherein at least one element or radical, e.g., hydrogen, is replaced by
   another, e.g., a hydrogen is replaced by a halogen as in chlorobenzyl.
   A residue of a chemical species, as used in the specification and concluding claims, refers
   to a structural fragment, or a moiety that is the resulting product of the chemical species in
25 a particular reaction scheme or subsequent formulation or chemical product, regardless of
   whether the structural fragment or moiety is actually obtained from the chemical species.
   Thus, an ethylene glycol residue in a polyester refers to one or more -OCH2CH20- repeat
   units in the polyester, regardless of whether ethylene glycol is used to prepare the
   polyester. Similarly, a 2,4-thiazolidinedione residue in a chemical compound refers to one
30 or more -2,4-thiazolidinedione moieties of the compound, regardless of whether the
   residue was obtained by reacting 2,4-thiazolidinedione to obtain the compound.
                                                  28
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   The term "organic residue" defines a carbon containing residue, i.e. a residue comprising
   at least one carbon atom, and includes but is not limited to the carbon-containing groups,
   residues, or radicals defined hereinabove. Organic residues can contain various
   heteroatoms, or be bonded to another molecule through a heteroatom, including oxygen,
 5 nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, or the like. Examples of organic residues include but are not
   limited alkyl or substituted alkyls, alkoxy or substituted alkoxy, mono or di-substituted
   amino, amide groups, etc. Organic resides can preferably comprise I to 18 carbon atoms,
   1 to 15, carbon atoms, 1 to 12 carbon atoms, 1 to 8 carbon atoms, or I to 4 carbon atoms.
   By the term "effective amount" of a compound as provided herein is meant a sufficient
10 amount of the compound to provide the desired regulation of a desired function, such as
   gene expression, protein function, or a disease condition. As will be pointed out below, the
   exact amount required will vary from subject to subject, depending on the species, age,
   general condition of the subject, specific identity and formulation of the drug, etc. Thus, it
   is not possible to specify an exact "effective amount." However, an appropriate effective
15 amount can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine
   experimentation.
   It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular
   forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
   otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "an aromatic compound" includes mixtures of
20 aromatic compounds.
   Often, ranges are expressed herein as from "about" one particular value, and/or to "about"
   another particular value. When such a range is expressed, another embodiment includes
   from the one particular value and/or to the other particular value. Similarly, when values
   are expressed as approximations, by use of the antecedent "about," it will be understood
25 that the particular value forms another embodiment. It will be further understood that the
   endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and
   independently of the other endpoint.
   "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or circumstance
   may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where said event or
30 circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. For example, the phrase "optionally
   substituted lower alkyl" means that the lower alkyl group may or may not be substituted
                                                  29
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   and that the description includes both unsubstituted lower alkyl and lower alkyls where
   there is substitution.
   The Amide Compounds of The Invention
 5 The compounds of the invention are all organic (carbon containing) compounds that all
   have at least one "amide" group therein, have the following general structure, which will
   be hereinafter referred to as the amide compounds having Formula (I) shown below:
           0
   R1             N       R
                  R3
          (I).
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) do not include any amide compounds that are known
10 to naturally occur in biological systems or foods, such as peptides, proteins, nucleic acids,
   glycopeptides or glycoproteins, or the like. The amide compounds of Formula (I) of the
   invention are man-made and artificial synthetic amide compounds, although the Applicants
   do not exclude the possibility that compounds of Formula (I) could conceivably be
   purposely prepared, either in their specified form or in the form of a peptide or protein
15 modified "prodrug" form by human beings utilizing one or more of the methods of modern
   biotechnology.
   For the various embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), the R', R2 and R' groups
   can be and are independently further defined in various ways, as will now be further
   detailed, so as to form and/or include a substantial number of subgenuses and/or species of
20 compounds of Formula (I). It is hereby specifically contemplated that any of subgenuses
   and/or species of compounds of Formula (I) described below can, either in their specified
   form or as a comestibly acceptable salt, be combined in an effective amount with a
   comestible or medicinal product or precursor thereof by the processes and/or methods
   described elsewhere herein, or by any such other processes as would be apparent to those
25 of ordinary skill in preparing comestible or medicinal products or precursor thereof, to
   form a savory or sweet flavor modified comestible or medicinal product, or a precursor
   thereof
                                                 30
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In some embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), R 1 is a hydrocarbon residue that
   may contain one or more heteroatoms or an inorganic residue, and R2 and R3 are each
   independently H or a hydrocarbon residue that may contain one or more heteroatoms; more
   preferably, R1 , R2 and R3 are independently selected from the group consisting of
 5 arylalkenyl, heteroarylalkenyl, arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl,
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, -R4 OH, -R4 CN, -R 4 CO2H, -R4 C02R 5, -R 4COR 5 ,
   -R 4 CONR 5R 6, -R 4 NR 5R 6, -R4 N(R 5 )COR6 , -R4 SR 5, -R 4 SOR5 , -R 4 S02R 5, -R 4 SO2NR 5R 6 and
   -R4 N(R 5)S02R 6, or optionally substituted groups thereof and preferably one of R2 or R is
   H; wherein each R4 is independently a hydrocarbon residue that may contain one or more
10 heteroatoms, preferably independently selected from small (Cl -C6) alkylene or (Cl -C6)
   alkoxyalkylene; and wherein each R5 and R6 are independently H or a hydrocarbon residue
   that may contain one or more heteroatoms, preferably independently selected from small
   (C1-C6) alkyl or (Cl-C6) alkoxyalkyl.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), R 1 comprises an organic or
15 hydrocarbon-based residue having at least three carbon atoms and optionally one to 20, 15,
   10, 8, 7, 6, or 5 heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur,
   halogens, or phosphorus.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), one of R 2 and R3 is optionally H,
   and one or both of R 2 and R3 comprises an organic or hydrocarbon-based residue having at
20 least three carbon atoms and optionally one to ten heteroatoms independently selected
   from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, halogens, or phosphorus.
   The compounds of Formula (I) are relatively "small molecules" as compared to many
   biological molecules, and can often have a variety of limitations on their overall absolute
   physical size, molecular weight, and physical characteristics, so that they can be at least
25 somewhat soluble in aqueous media, and are of appropriate size to effectively bind to the
   relevant heterodimeric TlR1/TlR3 or TlR2/TlR3 taste receptors, which share a common
   T1R3 protein subunit.
   While not wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that MSG binds to the TIRI
   subunit of TlR1/TlR3 "savory" taste receptors, and several known sweeteners bind to the
30 TlR2 subunit of TlR2/TlR3 sweet receptors. Accordingly, our unexpected and surprising
   discovery that the amide compounds of Formula (I) can share many overlapping physical
   and chemical features, and can sometimes bind to either one or both of the savory and
                                                     31
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   sweet receptors, is perhaps in retrospect reasonable and/or rational from a chemical/
   biochemical/ biological point of view.
   As an example of the overlapping physical and chemical properties and/or
   physical/chemical limitations on the savory and/or sweet amides of Formula (I), in most
 5 embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), the molecular weight of the compounds of
   Formula (I) should be less than about 800 grams per mole, or in further related
   embodiments less than or equal to about 700 grams per mole, 600 grams per mole, 500
   grams per ole, 450 grams per mole, 400 grams per mole, 350 grams per mole, or 300
   grams per mole.
10 Similarly, the compounds of Formula (I) can have preferred ranges of molecular weight,
   such as for example from about 175 to about 500 grams per mole, from about 200 to about
   450 grams per mole, from about 225 to about 400 grams per mole, from about 250 to about
   350 grams per mole.
   In a related series of embodiments, R 1 has between 3 and 16 carbon atoms or 4 and 14
15 carbon atoms or 5 and 12 carbon atoms, and 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 heteroatoms selected from
   oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, fluorine, or chlorine, and/or at least one of R2 or R3 has been 3
   and 16 carbon atoms and 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 heteroatoms independently selected from
   oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, fluorine, or chlorine; or preferably at least one of R 2 or R3 has
   between 4 and 14 carbon atoms and 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 heteroatoms independently selected
20 from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, fluorine; or even more preferably, at least one of R2 or R'
   has between 5 and 12 carbon atoms and 0, 1, 2, or 3 heteroatoms independently selected
   from oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur.
   In addition to the above described general physical and chemical characteristics and/or
   limitations, which can be shared by the various subgenuses of the sweet and savory
25 compounds of Formula (I), the compounds of Formula (I) can also share more specifically
   definable chemical structural features or chemical groups or residues, as is further
   described below.
   For example, in some embodiments, R1 , R2 , and R3 can be independently selected from the
   group consisting of an arylalkenyl, heteroarylalkenyl, arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl,
30 alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, -R4 OH, -R4 0R 5,-R4 CN,
   R 4 CO2H, -R 4 C02R 5, -R 4COR 5 , -R 4 SR 5, and -R 4 S02R 5, and optionally substituted
                                                     32
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   derivative thereof comprising 1, 2, 3, or 4 carbonyl, amino groups, hydroxyl, or halogen
   groups, and wherein R4 and R 5 are C1-C6 hydrocarbon residues.
   In further related embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (I), R1 , R2 and R3 can
   be independently selected from the group consisting of an arylalkenyl, heteroarylalkenyl,
 5 arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
   heterocycle, aryl and heteroaryl groups, and optionally substituted derivatives thereof
   comprising 1, 2, 3 or 4 carbonyl, amino groups, hydroxyl, or chlorine, or fluorine groups.
   In both of the embodiments just mentioned, an alternative and preferred set of optional
   substituent groups would be substituents independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro,
10 chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
   trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy substituent groups.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and
   the other R 2 or R 3 group is an organic residue or group. For example, in many
   embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one or R 2 and R 3 is a branched or
15 cyclic organic residue having a carbon atom directly bonded to both (a) the amide nitrogen
   atom and (b) two additional carbon atoms from other organic residues, which are branched
   or cyclic organic residues comprising additional hydrogen atoms and up to 10 optional
   additional carbon atoms, and optionally from zero to five heteroatoms independently
   selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, fluorine, and chlorine. Such branched R 2 and R3
20 groups include organic radicals having the formula:
               (R 2 a)na
            C
      -C-H
                 (R 2by
   wherein na and nb are independently selected from 1, 2, and 3, and each R2 a or R 2 b
   substituent residue is independently selected from hydrogen, a halogen, a hydroxy, or a
25 carbon-containing residue optionally having from zero to five heteroatoms independently
   selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and a halogen. In some such embodiments, the R2a
   or R2b are independent substituent groups, but in other embodiments one or more of the R2a
   or R2 bradicals can be bonded together to form ring structures.
                                                  33
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In some such embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of the R2 and R'
   is a branched alkyl radical having 5 to 12 carbon atoms, or at least one of R 2 and R' is a
   cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl ring comprising 5 to 12 ring carbon atoms. In such
   embodiments of R2 and R' the branched alkyl radical or the cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl ring
 5 can be optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, or 4 substituent groups independently selected
   from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy.
   In other embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (I), at least one of the R2 and
   R3 is a "benzylic" radical having the structure
                                       ,Y   Ar(2)
                         CAr-(R 2)m
10                    H2            or R
                wherein Ar is an aromatic or heteraromatic ring such as phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl,
                thiofuranyl, pyrrolyl, or similar aromatic ring systems, m is 0,1, 2, or 3, and each
                R2' is independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2,
                CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
15              ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy, and each R2a substituent group can be
                independently selected from the group consisting of an alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl,
                cycloalkenyl, cycloalkyl, -R40H, -R40 R5 , -R4CN, -R4 CO2H, -R 4 C02R 5, -R4COR 5 ,
                -R4SR 5, and -R4 S02R 5 group.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of R 2 or R3 is a C3-Clo
20 branched alkyl. These C3-Clo branched alkyls have been found to be highly effective R2
   groups for both savory and sweet amide compounds In further embodiments the C3-Cio
   branched alkyl may optionally substituted with one or two substituents independently
   selected from a hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt,
   methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
25 trifluoromethoxy group.
   In further embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of R 2 or R 3 is an a
   substituted carboxylic acid or a-substituted carboxylic acid lower alkyl ester. Preferably,
   at least one of R2 or R3 is an a-substituted carboxylic acid lower alkyl (especially methyl)
   ester. In some such preferred embodiments, the a-substituted carboxylic acid or a
                                                      34
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   substituted carboxylic acid ester residue corresponds to that of a naturally occurring and
   optically active a-amino acid or an ester thereof, or its opposite enantiomer.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of R2 or R is a 5 or 6
   membered aryl or heteroaryl ring, optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituent groups
 5 selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, OH, CN, CO2H, CHO,
   COR 6 , C02R6 , SR 6, halogen, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, and heteroaryl: and R 6
   is Ci-C6 alkyl. Preferably the aryl or heteroaryl ring is substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4
   substituent groups selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2,
   NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl,
10 methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   In some embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of R 2 or R3 is a
   phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiofuranyl, or pyrrolyl ring optionally substituted with one or two
   substituents independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2,
   CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy,
15 isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), at least one of R2 or R3 is a
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, or saturated heterocyclic ring having 3 to 10 ring carbon atoms,
   optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently selected from the group
   consisting of NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, C1-C4 alkyl, C1-C4 haloalkyl,
20 Ci-C4 alkoxy, Ci-C4 haloalkoxy, hydroxy, and halogen. In some further embodiments, at
   least one of R 2 or R 3 is a cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl ring, or piperidyl
   ring optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently selected from the
   group consisting of hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3,
   methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
25 trifluoromethoxy. In some preferred embodiments, at least one of R 2 or R3 is a cyclohexyl,
   optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3 methyl groups. Examples of such methyl substituted
   cyclohexyl rings have the formula
                                    or b
                                                   35
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In many embodiments of the compounds of Formula (I), especially compounds having
   activity for sweet receptors, at least one of R2 or R3 is a 1-(1,2,3,4) tetrahydronapthalene
   ring or an 2,3-dihydro-1H-indene ring having the formula:
                (R 2')m                 or(R 2
                                               )
                                        or (
 5 wherein m is 0,1, 2, or 3, and each R 2' can be bonded to either the aromatic or non
   aromatic ring and is independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3,
   N(CH3)2, CO2CH3 , SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
   ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy. It is to be understood that optical and/or
   diastereomeric isomerism can occur on the cyclohexyl or cyclopentyl rings of these
10 substituent, and differing optical and/or diastereomers can often have at least somewhat
   differing biological activities.
   In some embodiments at least one of R 2 or R 3 is a 1-(1,2,3,4) tetrahydronapthalene ring
   with certain preferred substitution patterns. In particular, at least one of R 2 or R 3 may have
   the formula:
                                         or            or
15                                  R2'      R
                                                                        R2
                                               R 2'
                 R                            or           or   R2
   wherein each R 2' are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy
20 groups. Similarly, in some preferred embodiments, at least one of R 2 or R3 may have the
   formula:
                                                    36
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                            or
                                    rCH3
                                               CH3O
                CH3O                             or
   In some embodiments at least one of R2 or R3 is an unsubstituted 1-(1,2,3,4)
   tetrahydronapthalene ring in racemic or optically active form, as shown below:
                                         or         or
 5
                Aromatic or Heteroaromatic Compounds
   In many preferred embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (I) having one or
                both of savory and sweet receptor agonist activity, there is a preferred subgenus of
                amide compounds having the following formula (II):
                                      0
                                                2
                (R 1 )m-A                  N-R
                                           H
10                                    (11)
   wherein A comprises a 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl ring; m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; each
   R' is independently selected from alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxy-alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, OH, CN,
   CO2H, C02R6 ,CHO, COR, SR 6 , halogen, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycle,
   aryl, and heteroaryl; and R6 is C1-C6 alkyl, and R2 can be any of the embodiments
15 contemplated herein above, or the like.
                In some embodiments, the A group of Formula (II) comprises an aryl ring, i.e. it
   contains at least one six-membered aromatic benzene ring. The aryls include at least
   benzene and napthalene rings, which may not, but in many embodiments are further
   sustituted with at least 1, 2, or 3 R' subtituent groups independently selected from the
                                                    37
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   group consisting of hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt,
   methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
   trifluoromethoxy groups.
                In some preferred embodiments, one or two of the R' substituent groups are
 5 bonded together to form a saturated alkylenedioxy ring on an phenyl ring, as exemplified
   by the following preferred structures (II a) and (Ilb);
                                              o                               0
                                                       2                         N
                                                 N   R
                R1a                              H       or                       H
                                  O           Rib                 O)          Rib
                                      (Ila)                             (Ilb)
   wherein Ria and              Rib are independently hydrogen or a lower alkyl, or alternatively Ria and
   Rib are independently hydrogen or methyl, or alternatively both Ria and Rib are hydrogen.
10              In many embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (II), A is heteroaryl
   ring, and typically a monocyclic or fused bicyclic heteroaryl ring. The fused bicyclic
   heteraryls are typified by the following benzofurans (Formula Ilc) and benzothiofurans
   (Formula (Ild):
                                              0
                                                  N-R     2
                                                                             S          N-R      2
                                                  H                                     H
                (R              -~                             (R
                                       (IeC)                or              (ld)
15 wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3 and each R' can be bonded to either the phenyl or heteroaryl
   rings and each R' is independently selected from, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3,
   N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
   ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy.
                Additional examples of fused bicyclic heteroaryls as A groups are typified by the
20 following benzoxazole compounds (Formula Ile) and (Formula (Ilf):
                                                             38
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                              0                                      0
                                                                                           e-I
                              0
               Ria                  1           bH         or    Ria                   bH      or
                              NI              Rib                        0DI         Rib
                                     (Ile)                                   (hf)
               wherein Ria or        Rib is independently hydrogen or a lower alkyl.
               In many embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (II), A is a monocyclic
  heteroaryl ring. The monocyclic heteroaryls that can be used as an A group in Formula (II)
5 are typified by the following structures:
               (R"$or                                           or    (
                                                                    (RR
                                                     HI
                     RN                 or      (               or
                                                     1        ((R         1)m
                              N                                           X/N
                                        or                      o
                                S                                            S                 (R    rnm
                                         or                      or                     or        NX
                                                or Lr          or
               (RI                                               (R
                               N    ~       or       N~ or            I     N
                                   'N             7
               (R1                           (R                  (
                                                           39
  10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3, and each R' is independently selected from, hydroxy,
                fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl,
                isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                trifluoromethoxy.
 5              In some preferred embodiments of the compounds of Formula (II), A is a
   substituted furan, thiofuran, or oxazole ring, so as to form compounds having Formulas
   (Ig), (IIh) and (IIi):
                                       0                            O
                               0               2
                                                            s
                                0         N-R                 S         N-    R2
                                          H                 I      1    H
                (R                        H(RH
                                    (11g)        or             (IIh)
                          R" 0
                N                     N     R2
                  \'H
                  0H
                                (IIi)
10              wherein m is 0, 1, 2, or 3 and each R' is independently selected from hydroxy,
                fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3,SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl,
                isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                trifluoromethoxy. In some of these embodiments, m is 1 or 2.
   In many embodiments of the compounds of the various subgenuses of Formula (II)
15              described immediately above, at least one of R2 or R3 can be a C3-Clo branched
                alkyl; an a-substituted carboxylic acid or an a-substituted carboxylic acid lower
                alkyl ester; a 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl ring, optionally substituted with 1,
                2, 3 or 4 substituent groups selected from the group consisting of hydroxy, fluoro,
                chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl,
20              vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups;
                a cyclohexyl, optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3 methyl groups; or a 1-(1,2,3,4)
                tetrahydronapthalene ring or an 2,3-dihydro-1H-indene ring having the formula:
                                                       40
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                (Rz')m                    orR(R
                                          orR
                wherein m is 0,1, 2, or 3, and each R 2' can be bonded to either the aromatic or non
                aromatic ring and is independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2,
                NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
 5              trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy; as were
                described hereinabove with respect to the general amide compounds of Formula (I).
   The subgenuses of aromatic or heteroaromatic amide compounds of Formula(II) described
                immediately above contain many excellent agonists of TlR1/TlR3 savory
                ("umami") taste receptors, and/or T1R2/T1R3 sweet taste receptors, at very low
10              concentrations of the amide compound on the order of micromolar concentrations
                or less, and can induce a noticeable sensation of a savory umami flavor in humans,
                and/or can serve as enhancers of the savory umami flavor of MSG, or significantly
                enhance the effectiveness of a variety of known sweeteners, especially saccharide
                based sweeteners.
15 Accordingly, many of the aromatic or heteroaromatic amide compounds of Formula (II)
                can be utilized as savory or sweet flavoring agents or savory or sweet flavor
                enhancers when contacted with a wide variety of comestible products and/or
                compositions, or their precursors, as is described elsewhere herein.
   In another subgenus of the compounds of Formula (I), the amide compound has Formula
20              (III):
                (Ri)m-A                  N-B-(R         2 ')m'
                                         H
                                    (III)
   wherein A comprises a 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl ring; m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; each
   R' is independently selected from alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, OH, CN,
   CO 2 H, CHO, COR 6 , C0 2 R 6                , SH, SR 6, halogen, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
25 and heteroaryl and R6 is C1-C6 alkyl; B is a 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl ring; m' is
                                                                41
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; R 2' is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, OH,
   CN, CO2H, CHO, COR 6 , C02R 6, SR 6, halogen, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, and
   heteroaryl: and R 6 is           Ci-C6 alkyl.
                In the compounds of Formula (III), the optional R' and R2' substituent groups can
 5 also be independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2,
   CO2CH3,SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy,
   isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
                In the compounds of Formula (III), both the A and B rings comprise a five or six
   membered aryl or heteroaryl ring. For the A ring, any of the various embodiments of the A
10 rings recited above for the compounds of Formula (II), including phenyl and the
   monocyclic and bicyclic heteroaryls can be suitable. In some bicyclic embodiments, the A
   ring of the compounds of Formula (III) have the following structures:
                                       o0
                Ria            oj            Rib
                                               1b     or
                                                      or     0               o
                                                                        Ribbor
                               o                               N
                Ria                              b or    Ria                   1b
                               N             Rib               0Rb
15              wherein Ria and Rib are independently hydrogen or a lower alkyl.
                In the compounds of Formula (III), the B rings are typically an optionally
   substituted monocyclic five or six membered aryl or heteroaryl ring, such as a phenyl,
   pyridyl, furanyl, thiofuranyl, pyrrolyl, and like monocycles. In some embodiments
   compounds of Formula (III) wherein B is phenyl, i.e. wherein the amide compound is
20 readily derived from an substituted aniline precursor, can in many cases be previously
   known chemical compounds, but we believe it has been previously unknown that such
   compounds can be used as very effective umami flavorant compounds, at less than
   micromolar concentrations or less, see for example compound Al in Table 1 below.
   Urea Compounds
                                                         42
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                In another subgenus of the amide compounds of Formula (I), the amide compound
   is a urea compound having the Formula (IV):
                                     0
                R7                           R9
                           N            N
                                     IH
                           R8
                                   (IV)
   wherein R7, RI and RI are each a hydrocarbon residue that may contain one or more
 5 heteroatoms or an inorganic residue, and preferably is independently selected from
   arylalkenyl, heteroarylalkenyl, arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl,
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl and heteroaryl groups, each of which may be optionally
   substituted, or one of R 7 or R8 can be and often is H.
                In some embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), R7 and R8 together
10 form a heterocyclic or heteroaryl ring having 5, 6, or 7 ring atoms that may be optionally
   substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro,
   NH-2,     NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
   trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups. Examples of
   such urea compound can have the Formulas (IVa) and (IVb):
15
                                 (R'm             R2)or         (R'mN(R2')n
                                         (IVa)
                                                                                   I1Vb)
                wherein m and n are independently 0, 1, 2, or 3, and each RI'and R2' is
                independently selected from fluoro, chloro, NH-2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt,
20              SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy,
                isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy. In such embodiments, n is preferably 0.
                                                     43
   10392499_1 (GHMatter) P59273.AU.5

    In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), R9 and one of R7 and
                 RI are independently selected from arylalkenyls, heteroarylalkenyls, arylalkyls,
                 heteroarylalkyls, alkyls, alkoxy-alkyls, alkenyls, cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, aryls
                 and heteroaryls, each of which carbon containing groups may be optionally
  5              substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently selected from hydrogen,
                 hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl,
                 ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                 trifluoromethoxy groups.
    In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), R and one of R7 and
10               R' are independently selected from arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, cycloalkyl,
                 aryl, heterocycle, and heteroaryl, each of which may optionally comprise one to
                 five heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, chlorine,
                 and fluorine.
    In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), R9 and one of RI and
15               R8 are independently selected from alkyl, phenyl, cyclohexyl, or pyridyl, each of
                 which may optionally comprise one to four substituents independently selected
                 from hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3,
                 methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                 trifluoromethoxy.
20  In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), at least one of R7 and
                 R8 has one of the heteroaromatic formulas:
                                                              or (R
                       (R         _
                                       0N
                                           or
                                                            \
                                                                          RR
                                     (RIII       I -I--(RIZ
                   (RHN                    or (R              or (
                                            or (               or (                     or       N
25
                                                          44
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                               N                                    (R")
                                        or                  or      N
                 (R                      (R(
                                        or      L           or
                 (R1'N                   (R1                   (R
                                N ~     or       K        \or       K Ni
                (R 1 1                  (R11                  (R1
                wherein m is 0,1, 2, or 3, and each R" independently selected from hydrogen,
 5              hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl,
                ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                trifluoromethoxy groups. In such embodiments, R 9 is preferably a C3-Clo branched
                alkyl, arylalkyl, or a cycloalkyl that can be optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3
                substituents independently selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2,
10              NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
                trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), at least one of R7 and
                R' is a phenyl ring optionally substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently
                selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2,
15              COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
                ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups. In such embodiments, R 9 is
                preferably a C3-Clo branched alkyl, arylalkyl, or a cycloalkyl that can be optionally
                substituted with 1, 2, or 3 substituents independently selected from hydrogen,
                hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl,
20              ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
                trifluoromethoxy groups.
                                                        45
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula (IV), R9 is a C3-Cio
                branched alkyl. In additional embodiments of the urea compounds of Formula
                (IV), R' has the structure
                            B-(R)m        HCBR)
                   HC                     HC      - (R2)
                          R9a         or     R9 a
 5              wherein B is a phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl, thiofuranyl, pyrrole,
                cyclopentyl,cyclohexyl, or piperidyl ring, m is 0,1, 2, or 3, and each R 2' is
                independently selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3,
                N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl,
                methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups, and R9a is a selected
10              from the group consisting of an alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, alkenyl,
                cycloalkenyl,cycloalkyl, -R 4 OH, -R4 0 R' -R4 CN, -R 4 CO2H, -R 4 C02R5 , -R4 COR',
                -R4 SR 5 , and -R4 S02R5 comprising 1 to 12 carbon atoms, or preferably
   Oxalamide Compounds
   In another subgenus of the amide compounds of Formula (I), the amide compound is an
15 oxalamide compound having Formula (V):
                               0      R30
                        RI    2        I
                         R2 0       0
                                (V)
   wherein R 10and R 30 are each independently selected a hydrocarbon residue that may
   contain one or more heteroatoms, or preferably, R 10 and R 30 are independently selected
   from the group consisting of arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, heterocycle-alkyl, or optionally
20 substituted groups thereof, and
   R 20 and R 4 0 are each independently H or a hydrocarbon residue that may contain one or
   more heteroatoms; preferably R 20, and R 4 0 are H or C1-C3 alkyl, or optionally substituted
   groups thereof. More preferably R 2 0 and R 4 0 are H. Moreover, there can be 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4
   optional substituent groups for R 10 and R 30 independently selected from hydroxy, fluoro,
25 chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3,SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
   trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
                                                       46
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In preferred embodiment of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (V), R10and R30 are
   independently selected hydrocarbon residues having at least three carbon atoms and
   optionally one to ten heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur,
   halogens, or phosphorus, and wherein R 20and R40 are independently selected from
 5 hydrogen and a hydrocarbon residue having at least three carbon atoms and optionally one
   to ten heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, halogens, or
   phosphorus.
   In many preferred embodiment of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (V), R20and R4 0
   are hydrogen. In such embodiments, R10 and R30 can be independently selected from the
10 group consisting of arylalkyls, heteroarylalkyls, cycloalkyl-alkyls, and heterocycle-alkyls
   comprising five to 15 carbon atoms, wherein each of R10 and R3 0 can optionally comprise
   one to one to four substituents independently selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro,
   chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
   trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
15 In many embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (V), the oxalamide
   compound has the Formula (Va):
                                    R50      0       R40
                   70
                (R( )m A                             N          B
                                        N                   R60   (R 80)
                                        R2 0     0
                                            (Va)
   wherein A and B are independently an aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or a heterocycle
   comprising 5 to 12 ring atoms; m and n are independently 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4-8; R20and R40 are
20 hydrogen, R5 0 is hydrogen or an alkyl or substituted alkyl residue comprising one to four
   carbon atoms; R6 0 is absent or a C1-C5 alkylene or a C1-C5 substituted alkylene; R70 and
   R' 0 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxyl,
   alkoxy-alkyl, OH, SR 9 , halogen, CN, N02, C02R9 , COR 9 , CONR 9R 10, NR 9R 10,
   NR 9COR 10, SOR 9, S02R 9, S02NR 9R 10 , NR 9SO2R 10, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
25 aryl, heteroaryl, and heterocycle; R9 and R 10 are independently selected from H, C1-C6
   alkyl, C3-C6 cycloalkyl, and              C1-C6 alkenyl.
   In preferred embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (Va), R6 0 is a
   CH2CH2- group, A and B are independently selected from phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl,
                                                             47
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   thiofuranyl and pyrrolyl rings and RI0 and RIO are independently selected from hydroxy,
   fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl,
   vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   In some embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (Va), A and B are
 5 independently a phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl, benzofuranyl, pyrrole, benzothiophene, piperidyl,
   cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, or cycloheptyl ring; m and n are independently 0, 1, 2, or 3;
   R 20and R40 are hydrogen; R 0 is hydrogen or methyl; R60 is a C1-C5 or preferably C2
   alkylene; R70 and RIO are independently selected from hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro,
   NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl,
10 trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
   In many embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (V), the oxalamide
   compound has the Formula (Vb):
                                    R50       0
                               70.           J        H        -(
                (R7 0 )                               N
                               A           N
                                                        1D
                                                           P N
                                           H
                                                  0
                                              (Vb)
   wherein A is a phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl, pyrrole, piperidyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, or
15 cycloheptyl ring; m and n are independently 0, 1, 2, or 3; R5 0 is hydrogen or methyl; P is 1
   or 2; andR 70 and RIO are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
   hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy, or
   two of R70 together form a methylenedioxy ring. In some embodiments of the oxalamide
20 compounds of Formula (Vb), the pyridyl-R80 radical has the structure:
                                                         CH3
                                N                   N
                                        or
   In certain preferred embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (V), the oxalamide
   compound has the Formula (Vc):
                                                          48
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                         R 50          0
                                              H            L(R80)
                                              N
                Ari                N                    N  I
                                   H-1
                                            0
                                         (Vc)
   wherein Ar is a substituted aryl or heteroaryl ring comprising five to 12 carbon atoms; R50
   is hydrogen or methyl; n is 0, 1, 2, or 3; each R 0 is independently selected from the group
   consisting of hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3,
 5 methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
   trifluoromethoxy groups. In some embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula
   (Vc), Ar is a 2-, 3-, or 4-mono-substituted phenyl, 2,4-, 2,3-, 2,5, 2,6, 3,5-, or 3,6
   disubstituted phenyl, 3-alkyl-4-substituted phenyl, a tri-substituted phenyl wherein the
   substituent groups are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
10 hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy, or
   two adjacent substituents together form a methylenedioxy ring on the phenyl ring. In some
   embodiments of the oxalamide compounds of Formula (Vc), Ar is a substituted heteroaryl
   ring comprising 5 to 12 carbon atoms and wherein the substituent groups are independently
15 selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3,
   N(CH3)2, CO2CH3, SEt, SCH3, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy,
   ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy.
   In certain preferred embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (V), the oxalamide
   compound has the Formula (Vd):
                                          R50    0
                          (R70).       AY(80    NN
                                           A  N
20              (Vd)                               (Vd)
   wherein A is a substituted aryl or heteroaryl ring comprising five to 12 carbon atoms; R5 0
   is hydrogen or methyl; n is 0, 1, 2, or 3; each R80 is independently selected from the group
   consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3,
   SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
25 trifluoromethoxy. Preferably, A is a phenyl, pyridyl, furanyl, pyrrole, piperidyl,
                                                          49
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, or cycloheptyl ring ring optionally substituted with 1, 3, or 3
   substituent groups independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy,
   fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3, SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl,
   vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy groups.
 5 In certain preferred embodiments of the amide compounds of Formula (V), the oxalamide
   compound has the Formula (Ve):
                                         0
                (R 7 0 )m,                 0R80)
                                        (Ve)
   wherein m and n are independently 0, 1, 2, or 3; R70 and R 0 are independently selected
   from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, OH, SR 9 , halogen,
10 CN, N02, C02R 9, COR 9 , CONR 9R 0 , NR 9R 10 , NR 9COR10 , SOR 9, S02R 9, S02NR 9R10 ,
   NR 9S02R10 , alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and heterocycle; and R 9
   and R 10 are independently selected from H, C1-C6 alkyl, C3-C6 cycloalkyl, and    C1-C6
   alkenyl groups. Preferably, R70 and R 0 are independently selected from the group
   consisting of hydrogen, hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH2, NHCH3, N(CH3)2, COOCH3, SCH3,
15 SEt, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and
   trifluoromethoxy groups. Preferably, the pyridyl-R 80 radical of the oxalamide compound
   of Formula (Ve) has the structure:
                                                    CH3
                         \   N      or,       N
                                    or\
                As can be noted by inspection of the Examples attached hereinbelow, oxalamide
20 compounds of Formulas (Va)-(Ve) are excellent agonists of TlR1/TlR3 savory ("umami")
   taste receptors at very low concentrations on the order of micromolar concentrations or
   less, induce a noticeable sensation of a savory umami flavor in humans, and/or can serve as
   enhancers of the savory umami flavor of MSG. Accordingly, oxalamide compounds of
   Formulas (Vc), (Vd) and (Ve) can be utilized as savory flavoring agents or savory flavor
25 enhancers when contacted with a wide variety of comestible products and/or compositions,
   or their precursors, as is described elsewhere herein.
                                                     50
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Acrylamide Compounds
                In another subgenus of the amide compounds of Formula (I), the amide compound
   is an acrylamide compound having Formula (VI):
                                         0
                 (R")m                     N R2
                                           H
                                    (VI)
 5 wherein A is a 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl ring; m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; each R' is
   independently selected from alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, OH, CN, CO2H, C02R 6, CHO,
   COR 6 , SR 6, halogen, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, and heteroaryl, and R2 can be
   any of the various embodiments of R2 described hereinabove with respect to the amides of
   Formula (I).
10 In some of the acrylamide compounds of Formula (VI), A is a phenyl ring and m is 1, 2, 3
   or 4, or preferably m is 1 or 2, and R' can be independently selected from hydrogen,
   hydroxy, fluoro, chloro, NH 2 , NHCH 3, N(CH 3 )2 , CO 2CH 3 , SEt, SCH 3, methyl, ethyl,
   isopropyl, vinyl, trifluoromethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, isopropoxy, and trifluoromethoxy
   groups. In some of the acrylamide compounds of Formula (VI), R 2 is a C3-Cio alkyl, or an
15 a-substituted carboxylic acid lower alkyl ester.
   Comestibly or Pharmaceutically Acceptable Compounds
   Many of the amide compounds of Formula (I) or its various enumerated subgenuses
   comprise acidic or basic groups, so that depending on the acidic or basic character ("pH")
   of the comestible or medicinal compositions in which they are formulated, they may be
20 present as salts, which are preferably comestibly acceptable (i.e. designated as generally
   recognized as safe, or GRAS) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts (many of which have
   been recognized by the Federal Food and Drug Administration).
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) having acidic groups, such as carboxylic acids, will
   tend (at near neutral physiological pH) to be present in solution in the form of anionic
25 carboxylates, and therefore will in preferred embodiments have an associate comestibly
   and/or pharmaceutically acceptable cation, many of which are known to those of ordinary
   skill in the art. Such comestibly and/or pharmaceutically acceptable cations include alkali
   metal cations (lithium, sodium, and potassium cations), alkaline earth metal cations
                                                   51
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   (magnesium, calcium, and the like), or ammonium (NH4)* or organically substituted
   ammonium cations such as (R-NH3)* cations.
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) having basic substituent groups, such as amino or
   nitrogen containing heterocyclic groups, will tend (at near neutral physiological pH, or at
 5 the acidic pH common in many foods) to be present in solution in the form of cationic
   ammonium groups, and therefore will in preferred embodiments have an associate
   comestibly and/or pharmaceutically acceptable anion, many of which are known to those
   of ordinary skill in the art. Such comestibly and/or pharmaceutically acceptable anionic
   groups include the anionic form of a variety of carboxylic acids (acetates, citrates, tartrates,
10 anionic salts of fatty acids, etc.), halides (especially fluorides or chlorides), nitrates, and
   the like.
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) and its various subgenuses should preferably be
   comestibly acceptable, i.e. deemed suitable for consumption in food or drink, and should
   also be pharmaceutically acceptable. The typical method of demonstrating that a flavorant
15 compound is comestibly acceptable is to have the compound tested and/or evaluated by an
   Expert Panel of the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association and declared as to be
   "Generally Recognized As Safe" ("GRAS"). The FEMA/GRAS evaluation process for
   flavorant compounds is complex but well known to those of ordinary skill in the food
   product preparation arts, as is discussed by Smith et al. in an article entitled "GRAS
20 Flavoring Substances 21," Food Technology, 57(5), pgs 46-59, May 2003, the entire
   contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
   When being evaluated in the FEMA/GRAS process, a new flavorant compound is typically
   tested for any adverse toxic effects on laboratory rats when fed to such rats for at least
   about 90 days at a concentration 100-fold, or 1000-fold, or even higher concentrations than
25 the proposed maximum allowable concentration of the compound in a particular category
   of food products being considered for approval. For example, such testing of the amide
   compounds of the invention might involve combining the amide compound with rat chow
   and feeding it to laboratory rats such as Crl:CD(SD)IGS BR rats, at a concentration of
   about 100 milligrams/Kilogram body weight/day for 90 days, and then sacrificing and
30 evaluating the rats by various medical testing procedures to show that the amide compound
   of Formula (I) causes no adverse toxic effects on the rats.
   The Compounds of the Invention as Savory or Sweet Taste Enhancers
                                                    52
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   The amide compounds of Formula (I) and its various compound sub-genuses and species,
   as described above are intended to be savory or sweet taste flavorant compounds or flavor
   modifiers for comestible or medicinal products. As is apparent from the teachings and
   Examples herein, many compounds of Formula (I) are agonists of an hTlR1/hTlR3
 5 "savory" receptor, or an hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor, at least at relatively high amide
   compound concentrations, and accordingly many of the amide compounds of Formula (I)
   can have at least some utility as savory or sweet flavorants or flavor enhancers, at least at
   relatively high concentrations.
   Nevertheless, it is preferable to use as little of such artificial flavorants as possible, so as to
10 minimize both cost and any undesirable health side effects of administration of the
   compounds of Formula (I) at high concentration levels. Accordingly, it is desirable to test
   the compounds of Formula (I) for their effectiveness as taste receptor agonists at lower
   concentration levels, so as to identify the best and most effective amide compounds within
   the compounds of Formula (I). As was disclosed in WO 03/001876, and U.S. Patent
15 publication US 2003-0232407 Al, and as described hereinbelow, laboratory procedures
   now exist for measuring the agonist activities of compounds for an hTlR1/hTlR3
   "savory" and hT1R2/hT1R3 sweet receptors. Such measurement methods typically
   measure an "EC5o", i.e. the concentration at which the compound causes 50% activation of
   the relevant receptor.
20 Preferably, the amide compounds of Formula (I) that are savory flavor modifiers have an
   EC5o for the hTlR1/hTlR3 receptor of less than about 10 pM. More preferably, such
   amide compounds have an EC5o for the hTlR1/hTlR3 receptor of less than about 5 piM, 3
   ptM, 2 ptM, 1 ptM, or 0.5 pM.
   Preferably, the amide compounds of Formula (I) that are sweet flavor modifiers or sweet
25 flavor enhancers have an EC5o for the hT 1R2/hT 1R3 receptor of less than about 10 pM.
   More preferably, such amide compounds have an EC5o for the hTlR2/hTlR3 receptor of
   less than about 5 ptM, 3 ptM, 2 ptM, 1 ptM, or 0.5 pM.
   In some embodiments, the amide compounds of Formula (I) are savory flavor modulators
   or enhancers of the agonist activity of monosodium glutamate for an hTlR1/hTlR3
30 receptor. Hereinbelow is described an assay procedure for so-called EC5o ratios, i.e. for
   dissolving a compound of Formula (I) in water containing MSG, and measuring the degree
   to which the amide compound lowers the amount of MSG required to activate 50% of the
                                                    53
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   available hTlR1/hTlR3 receptors. Preferably, the amide compounds of Formula (I), when
   dissolved in a water solution comprising about 1 pM of the amide compound will decrease
   the observed EC5o of monosodium glutamate for an hTlR1/hTlR3 receptor expressed in
   an HEK293-Gat15 cell line by at least 50%, i.e. the amide compound will have an EC50
 5 ratio of at least 2.0, or preferably 3.0, 5.0, or 7.0.
   Although no specific EC5o ratio assays for sweet enhancers have yet been developed, it is
   believed the amide compounds of Formula (I), and more specifically many of the amides
   of Formula (II) can modulate the binding of a known sweetener such as for example
   sucrose, fructose, glucose, erythritol, isomalt, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, a known
10 natural terpenoid, flavonoid, or protein sweetener, aspartame, saccharin, acesulfame-K, a
   cyclamate, sucralose, alitame or erythritol to an hTlR2/hTlR3 receptor. Appropriate
   assays for such sweet enhancement properties can be readily developed by one of ordinary
   skill in the arts by using appropriate cell lines expressing hTlR2/hTlR3 receptors.
   The above identified assays are useful in identifying the most potent of the amide
15 compounds of Formula (I) for savory and/or sweet taste modifier or enhancer properties,
   and the results of such assays are believed to correlate well with actual savory or sweet
   taste perception in animals and humans, but ultimately the results of the assays can be
   confirmed, at least for the most potent of the compounds of Formula (I), by human taste
   testing. Such human taste testing experiments can be well quantified and controlled by
20 tasting the candidate compounds in aqueous solutions, as compared to control aqueous
   solution, or alternatively by tasting the amides of the inventions in actual food
   compositions.
   Accordingly, in order to identify the more potent of the savory taste modifiers or agents, a
   water solution comprising a savory flavor modifying amount of the amide compound
25 should have a savory taste as judged by the majority of a panel of at least eight human taste
   testers.
   Correspondingly, in order to identify the more potent of the savory taste enhancers, a water
   solution, comprising a savory flavor modifying amount of an amide compound of Formula
   (I) and 12 mM monosodium glutamate, would have an increased savory taste as compared
30 to a control water solution comprising 12 mM monosodium glutamate, as determined by
   the majority of a panel of at least eight human taste testers. Preferably, in order to identify
   the more potent of the savory taste enhancers, a water solution comprising a savory flavor
                                                    54
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   modifying amount (preferably about 30, 10, 5, or 2 ppm) of the amide compound of
   Formula (I) and 12 mM monosodium glutamate will have an increased savory taste as
   compared to a control water solution comprising 12 mM monosodium glutamate and 100
   pM inosine monophosphate, as determined by the majority of a panel of at least eight
 5 human taste testers.
   Similar human taste testing procedures can be used to identify which of the compounds of
   Formula (I) are the more effective sweet taste agents or sweet taste enhancing agents.
   Preferred sweet taste modifiers of Formula (I) can be identified when a modified
   comestible or medicinal product has a sweeter taste than a control comestible or medicinal
10 product that does not comprise the amide compound, as judged by the majority of a panel
   of at least eight human taste testers.
   Preferred sweet taste enhancers of Formula (I) can be identified when a water solution
   comprising a sweet tasting amount of a known sweetener selected from the group
   consisting of sucrose, fructose, glucose, erythritol, isomalt, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol,
15 xylitol, a known natural terpenoid, flavonoid, or protein sweetener, aspartame, saccharin,
   acesulfame-K, cyclamate, sucralose, and alitame, and a sweet flavor modifying amount of
   the amide compound (preferably about 30, 10, 5, or 2 ppm) has a sweeter taste than a
   control water solution comprising the sweet tasting amount of the known sweetener, as
   judged by the majority of a panel of at least eight human taste testers. In such taste test
20 experiments, sucrose would preferably be present at a concentration of about 6 grams/100
   milliliters, a 50:50 mixture of glucose and fructose would preferably be present at a
   concentration of about 6 grams/100 milliliters, aspartame would preferably be present at a
   concentration of about 1.6 mM, acesulfame-K would preferably be present at a
   concentration of about 1.5 mM, cyclamate would preferably be present at a concentration
25 of about 10 mM, sucralose would preferably be present at a concentration of about 0.4
   mM, or alitame would preferably be present at a concentration of about 0.2 mM.
   Using the Compounds of Formula (I) to Prepare Comestible Compositions
   Flavors, flavor modifiers, flavoring agents, flavor enhancers, savory ("umami") flavoring
   agents and/or flavor enhancers, according to the invention have application in foods,
30 beverages and medicinal compositions wherein savory or sweet compounds are
   conventionally utilized. These compositions include compositions for human and animal
                                                 55
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   consumption. This includes foods for consumption by agricultural animals, pets and zoo
   animals.
   Those of ordinary skill in the art of preparing and selling comestible compositions (i.e
   edible foods or beverages, or precursors or flavor modifiers thereof) are well aware of a
 5 large variety of classes, subclasses and species of the comestible compositions, and utilize
   well-known and recognized terms of art to refer to those comestible compositions while
   endeavoring to prepare and sell various of those compositions. Such a list of terms of art is
   enumerated below, and it is specifically contemplated hereby that the various subgenuses
   and species of the compounds of Formula (I) could be used to modify or enhance the
10 savory and/or sweet flavors of the following list comestible compositions, either singly or
   in all reasonable combinations or mixtures thereof:
                One or more confectioneries, chocolate confectionery, tablets,
                countlines, bagged selflines/softlines, boxed assortments, standard
                boxed assortments, twist wrapped miniatures, seasonal chocolate,
15              chocolate with toys, alfajores, other chocolate confectionery, mints,
                standard mints, power mints, boiled sweets, pastilles, gums, jellies and
                chews, toffees, caramels and nougat, medicated confectionery,
                lollipops, liquorice, other sugar confectionery, gum, chewing gum,
                sugarised gum, sugar-free gum, functional gum, bubble gum, bread,
20              packaged/industrial bread, unpackaged/artisanal bread, pastries, cakes,
                packaged/industrial cakes, unpackaged/artisanal cakes, cookies,
                chocolate coated biscuits, sandwich biscuits, filled biscuits, savoury
                biscuits and crackers, bread substitutes, breakfast cereals, rte cereals,
                family breakfast cereals, flakes, muesli, other rte cereals, children's
25              breakfast cereals, hot cereals, ice cream, impulse ice cream, single
                portion dairy ice cream, single portion water ice cream, multi-pack
                dairy ice cream, multi-pack water ice cream, take-home ice cream, take
                home dairy ice cream, ice cream desserts, bulk ice cream, take-home
                water ice cream, frozen yoghurt, artisanal ice cream, dairy products,
30              milk, fresh/pasteurised milk, full fat fresh/pasteurised milk, semi
                skimmed fresh/pasteurised milk, long-life/uht milk, full fat long life/uht
                milk, semi skimmed long life/uht milk, fat-free long life/uht milk, goat
                                                        56
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                milk, condensed/evaporated milk, plain condensed/evaporated milk,
                flavoured, functional and other condensed milk, flavoured milk drinks,
                dairy only flavoured milk drinks, flavoured milk drinks with fruit juice,
                soy milk, sour milk drinks, fermented dairy drinks, coffee whiteners,
 5              powder milk, flavoured powder milk drinks, cream, cheese, processed
                cheese, spreadable processed cheese, unspreadable processed cheese,
                unprocessed cheese, spreadable unprocessed cheese, hard cheese,
                packaged hard cheese, unpackaged hard cheese, yoghurt, plain/natural
                yoghurt, flavoured yoghurt, fruited yoghurt, probiotic yoghurt, drinking
10              yoghurt, regular drinking yoghurt, probiotic drinking yoghurt, chilled
                and shelf-stable desserts, dairy-based desserts, soy-based desserts,
                chilled snacks, fromage frais and quark, plain fromage frais and quark,
                flavoured fromage frais and quark, savoury fromage frais and quark,
                sweet and savoury snacks, fruit snacks, chips/crisps, extruded snacks,
15              tortilla/corn chips, popcorn, pretzels, nuts, other sweet and savoury
                snacks, snack bars, granola bars, breakfast bars, energy bars, fruit bars,
                other snack bars, meal replacement products, slimming products,
                convalescence drinks, ready meals, canned ready meals, frozen ready
                meals, dried ready meals, chilled ready meals, dinner mixes, frozen
20              pizza, chilled pizza, soup, canned soup, dehydrated soup, instant soup,
                chilled soup, uht soup, frozen soup, pasta, canned pasta, dried pasta,
                chilled/fresh pasta, noodles, plain noodles, instant noodles, cups/bowl
                instant noodles, pouch instant noodles, chilled noodles, snack noodles,
                canned food, canned meat and meat products, canned fish/seafood,
25              canned vegetables, canned tomatoes, canned beans, canned fruit,
                canned ready meals, canned soup, canned pasta, other canned foods,
                frozen food, frozen processed red meat, frozen processed poultry,
                frozen processed fish/seafood, frozen processed vegetables, frozen meat
                substitutes, frozen potatoes, oven baked potato chips, other oven baked
30              potato products, non-oven frozen potatoes, frozen bakery products,
                frozen desserts, frozen ready meals, frozen pizza, frozen soup, frozen
                noodles, other frozen food, dried food, dessert mixes, dried ready meals,
                                                        57
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                dehydrated soup, instant soup, dried pasta, plain noodles, instant
                noodles, cups/bowl instant noodles, pouch instant noodles, chilled food,
                chilled processed meats, chilled fish/seafood products, chilled processed
                fish, chilled coated fish, chilled smoked fish, chilled lunch kit, chilled
 5              ready meals, chilled pizza, chilled soup, chilled/fresh pasta, chilled
                noodles, oils and fats, olive oil, vegetable and seed oil, cooking fats,
                butter, margarine, spreadable oils and fats, functional spreadable oils
                and fats, sauces, dressings and condiments, tomato pastes and pur6es,
                bouillon/stock cubes, stock cubes, gravy granules, liquid stocks and
10              fonds, herbs and spices, fermented sauces, soy based sauces, pasta
                sauces, wet sauces, dry sauces/powder mixes, ketchup, mayonnaise,
                regular mayonnaise, mustard, salad dressings, regular salad dressings,
                low fat salad dressings, vinaigrettes, dips, pickled products, other
                sauces, dressings and condiments, baby food, milk formula, standard
15              milk formula, follow-on milk formula, toddler milk formula,
                hypoallergenic milk formula, prepared baby food, dried baby food,
                other baby food, spreads, jams and preserves, honey, chocolate spreads,
                nut-based spreads, and yeast-based spreads.
   Preferably, the compounds of Formula (I) can be used to modify or enhance the savory or
20 sweet flavor of one or more of the following sub-genuses of comestible compositions:
   confectioneries, bakery products, ice creams, dairy products, sweet and savory snacks,
   snack bars, meal replacement products, ready meals, soups, pastas, noodles, canned foods,
   frozen foods, dried foods, chilled foods, oils and fats, baby foods, or spreads, or a mixture
   thereof
25 In general an ingestible composition will be produced that contains a sufficient amount of
   at least one compound within the scope of Formula (I) or its various subgenuses described
   hereinabove to produce a composition having the desired flavor or taste characteristics
   such as "savory" or "sweet" taste characteristics.
   Typically at least a savory flavor modulating amount, a sweet flavor modulating amount, a
30 savory flavoring agent amount, or a sweet flavoring agent amount, of one or more of the
   compounds of Formula (I) will be added to the comestible or medicinal product, so that the
   savory or sweet flavor modified comestible or medicinal product has an increased savory
                                                        58
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   and/or sweet taste as compared to the comestible or medicinal product prepared without
   the amide compound, as judged by human beings or animals in general, or in the case of
   formulations testing, as judged by a majority of a panel of at least eight human taste
   testers, via procedures described elsewhere herein.
 5 The concentration of savory or sweet flavoring agent needed to modulate or improve the
   flavor of the comestible or medicinal product or composition will of course vary dependent
   on many variables, including the specific type of ingestible composition, what savory
   compounds are present and the concentrations thereof, and the effect of the particular
   compound on such savory compounds. As noted, a significant application of the
10 compounds of Formula (I) is for modulating (inducing, enhancing or inhibiting) the savory
   or sweet tastes or other taste properties of other natural or synthetic savory tastants. A
   broad but also low range of concentrations of the amide compounds of Formula (I) would
   typically be required, i.e. from about 0.00 1 ppm to 100 ppm , or narrower alternative
   ranges from about 0.1 ppm to about 10 ppm, from about 0.01 ppm to about 30 ppm, from
15 about 0.05 ppm to about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or from about 0.1
   ppm to about 3 ppm.
   Examples of foods and beverages wherein compounds according to the invention may be
   incorporated included by way of example the Wet Soup Category, the Dehydrated and
   Culinary Food Category, the Beverage Category, the Frozen Food Category, the Snack
20 Food Category, and seasonings or seasoning blends.
   "Wet Soup Category" means wet/liquid soups regardless of concentration or container,
   including frozen Soups. For the purpose of this definition soup(s) means a food prepared
   from meat, poultry, fish, vegetables, grains, fruit and other ingredients, cooked in a liquid
   which may include visible pieces of some or all of these ingredients. It may be clear (as a
25 broth) or thick (as a chowder), smooth, pureed or chunky, ready-to-serve, semi-condensed
   or condensed and may be served hot or cold, as a first course or as the main course of a
   meal or as a between meal snack (sipped like a beverage). Soup may be used as an
   ingredient for preparing other meal components and may range from broths consomme6) to
   sauces (cream or cheese-based soups).
30 "Dehydrated and Culinary Food Category" means: (i) Cooking aid products such as:
   powders, granules, pastes, concentrated liquid products, including concentrated bouillon,
   bouillon and bouillon like products in pressed cubes, tablets or powder or granulated form,
                                                  59
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   which are sold separately as a finished product or as an ingredient within a product, sauces
   and recipe mixes (regardless of technology); (ii) Meal solutions products such as:
   dehydrated and freeze dried soups, including dehydrated soup mixes, dehydrated instant
   soups, dehydrated ready-to-cook soups, dehydrated or ambient preparations of ready-made
 5 dishes, meals and single serve entries including pasta, potato and rice dishes; and
   (iii) Meal embellishment products such as: condiments, marinades, salad dressings, salad
   toppings, dips, breading, batter mixes, shelf stable spreads, barbecue sauces, liquid recipe
   mixes, concentrates, sauces or sauce mixes, including recipe mixes for salad, sold as a
   finished product or as an ingredient within a product, whether dehydrated, liquid or frozen.
10 "Beverage Category" means beverages, beverage mixes and concentrates, including but
   not limited to, alcoholic and non-alcoholic ready to drink and dry powdered beverages.
   Other examples of foods and beverages wherein compounds according to the invention
   may be incorporated included by way of example carbonated and non-carbonated
   beverages, e.g., sodas, fruit or vegetable juices, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages,
15 confectionary products, e.g., cakes, cookies, pies, candies, chewing gums, gelatins, ice
   creams, sorbets, puddings, jams, jellies, salad dressings, and other condiments, cereal, and
   other breakfast foods, canned fruits and fruit sauces and the like.
   Additionally, the subject compounds can be used in flavor preparations to be added to
   foods and beverages. In preferred instances the composition will comprise another flavor
20 or taste modifier such as a savory tastant.
   Accordingly, in some embodiments, the inventions relate to methods for modulating the
   savory or sweet taste of a comestible or medicinal product comprising:
                a) providing at least one comestible or medicinal product, or a precursor thereof,
                      and
25              b) combining the comestible or medicinal product or precursor thereof with at
                      least a savory flavor modulating amount or a sweet flavor modulating amount
                      of at least one non-naturally occurring amide compound, or a comestibly
                      acceptable salt thereof, so as to form a modified comestible or medicinal
                      product;
30 wherein the amide compound has the formula:
                                                         60
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

          0
   R1            N       R2
                  1R
                   3
         (I)
                wherein the amide compound is an amide of Formula (I), or any of its various
                subgenuses or species compounds described herein, wherein R', R2 , and R' can be
                defined in the many ways also described hereinabove.
 5 The invention also relates to the modified comestible or medicinal products produced by
   such processes, and similar processes for producing comestible or medicinal products well
   known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
   The amide compounds of Formula (I) and its various subgenuses can be combined with or
   applied to the comestible or medicinal products or precursor thereof in any of innumerable
10 ways known to cooks the world over, or producers of comestible or medicinal products.
   For example, the amide compounds of Formula (I) could be dissolved in or dispersed in or
   one one of many comestibly acceptable liquids, solids, or other carriers, such as water at
   neutral, acidic, or basic pH, fruit or vegetable juices, vinegar, marinades, beer, wine,
   natural water/fat emulsions such as milk or condensed milk, edible oils and shortenings,
15 fatty acids, certain low molecular weight oligomers of propylene glycol, glyceryl esters of
   fatty acids, and dispersions or emulsions of such hydrophobic substances in aqueous
   media, salts such as sodium chloride, vegetable flours, solvents such as ethanol, solid
   edible diluents such as vegetable powders or flours, and the like, and then combined with
   precursors of the comestible or medicinal products, or applied directly to the comestible or
20 medicinal products.
   Making The Amide Compounds of Formula (I)
   The starting materials used in preparing the compounds of the invention, i.e. the various
   structural subclasses and species of the amide compounds of Formula (I) and their
   synthetic precursors, especially the organic carboxylic acids and benzoic acids,
25 isocyanates, and the various amines, anilines, amino acids, etc, were often known
   compounds, or made by known methods of the literature, or are commercially available
   from various sources well known to those of ordinary skill in the art, such as for example,
   Sigma-Aldrich Corporation of St. Louis Missouri USA and their subsidiaries Fluka and
   Riedel-de Ha~n, at their various other worldwide offices, and other well know suppliers
                                                    61
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   such as Fisher Scientific, TCI America of Philadelphia PA, ChemDiv of San Diego CA,
   Chembridge of San Diego CA, Asinex of Moscow Russia, SPECS/BIOSPECS of the
   Netherlands, Maybridge of Cornwall England, Acros, TimTec of Russia, Comgenex of
   South San Francisco CA and ASDI Biosciences of Newark Deleware.
 5 It will be apparent to the skilled artisan that methods for preparing precursors and
   functionality related to the compounds claimed herein are generally described in the
   literature. The skilled artisan given the literature and this disclosure is well equipped to
   prepare any of the necessary starting materials and/or claimed compounds. In some of the
   Examples cited below, starting materials were not readily available, and therefore were
10 synthesized, and the synthesis of the starting materials is therefore exemplified.
   It is recognized that the skilled artisan in the art of organic chemistry can readily carry out
   manipulations without further direction, that is, it is well within the scope and practice of
   the skilled artisan to carry out these manipulations. These include reduction of carbonyl
   compounds to their corresponding alcohols, oxidations, acylations, aromatic substitutions,
15 both electrophilic and nucleophilic, etherifications, esterification, saponification,nitrations,
   hydrogenations, reductive amination and the like. These manipulations are discussed in
   standard texts such as March's Advanced Organic Chemistry (3d Edition, 1985, Wiley
   Interscience, New York), Feiser and Feiser's Reagentsfor Organic Synthesis, Carey and
   Sundberg, Advanced Organic Chemistry and the like, the entire disclosures of which are
20 hereby incorporated by reference in their entirieties for their teachings regarding methods
   for synthesizing organic compounds.
   The skilled artisan will readily appreciate that certain reactions are best carried out when
   other functionality is masked or protected in the molecule, thus avoiding any undesirable
   side reactions and/or increasing the yield of the reaction. Often the skilled artisan utilizes
25 protecting groups to accomplish such increased yields or to avoid the undesired reactions.
   These reactions are found in the literature and are also well within the scope of the skilled
   artisan. Examples of many of these manipulations can be found for example in T. Greene
   and P. Wuts, Protecting Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3 rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons (1999).
   The following abbreviations have the indicated meanings:
30              CH3CN = Acetonitrile
                CHCl3 = Chloroform
                DIC = N,N'-Diisopropylcarbodiimide
                                                    62
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                DIPEA = Diisopropylethylamine
   DMAP = 4-(dimethylamino)-pyridine
                DMF= N,N-dimethylformamide
                             EDCI = 1-(3-Dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochoride
 5              DCM = Dichloromethane
   ESIMS = electron spray mass spectrometry
                Et3N = triethylamine
                EtOAc = ethyl acetate
                EtOH = Ethyl Alcohol
10 Fmoc = N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl
                HCl = Hydrochloric acid
                H2SO4       =   Sulfuric acid
                HOBt       =   1-Hydroxybenzotriazole
                MeOH         =  Methyl Alcohol
15              MgSO4= magnesium sulfate
                NaHCO3 = sodium bicarbonate
                NaOH = Sodium Hydroxide
                Na2SO4        =   Sodium Sulfate
                Ph = phenyl
20              r.t.= room temperature
                SPOS = solid phase organic synthesis
                THF = tetrahydrofuran
                TLC = thin layer chromatography
   Alkyl group abbreviations
25              Me = methyl
                Et = ethyl
                n-Pr = normal propyl
                i-Pr    =  isopropyl
                n-Bu     =   normal butyl
30              i-Bu     =  isobutyl
                t-Bu     =  tertiary butyl
                s-Bu     =   secondary butyl
                                                       63
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                n-Pen      =  normal pentyl
                i-Pen     =  isopentyl
                n-Hex      =   normal hexyl
                i-Hex     =   isohexyl
 5 Polymer supported reagent abbreviations
                PS-Trisamine = Tris-(2-aminoethyl)amine polystyrene
                PS-Chloroacetyl            =
                PS-NCO = methylisocyanate polystyrene
                PS-benzadehyde             =
10              PS-TsNHNH2 = toluensulfonylhydrazone polystyrene
   The following example schemes are provided for the guidance of the reader, and represent
   preferred methods for making the compounds exemplified herein. These methods are not
   limiting, and it will be apparent that other routes may be employed to prepare these
15 compounds. Such methods specifically include solid phase based chemistries, including
   combinatorial chemistry. The skilled artisan is thoroughly equipped to prepare the
   necessary and/or claimed compounds by those methods given the literature and this
   disclosure.
                Scheme la
                                             Method A:               0
                                           R PS-Carbodiimide                2
            1+                      HI '                         R4    N'R
    R          OH                     R3      Method B:
    0           OH                            Carbodiimide             R1 3
20         ||                          lil
   As shown in Scheme 1a, amide derivatives (I) are prepared from the coupling of acid
   derivatives (II) with amines (III) in the presence of a coupling reagent such as 1-ethyl-3-(3
   dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide hydrochloride and a base. In Method A, a polymer
   supported (PS) carbodiimide is used. Method B uses a non-polymer supported
25 carbodiimide.
   Scheme lb - Alternative Method for Preparing Amides
                                                       64
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                       0                   R2           Base                        2
                                    + HN'                              R4     N'3 R
                R          XR3                   '      3
                                                                              R3
                       IV              III                                  I
                                               X = halide
   As shown in Scheme ib, amide derivatives (I) are alternatively prepared from the coupling
   of acid halides, esters, or anhydrides (IV) with amines (III) in the presence of a base.
   Scheme lc - Synthesis of Amides Via Combinatorial Arrays
 5 The following procedure was used and can be used to synthesize amides in combinatorial
   array.
         *      Use acetonitrile as system solvent.
         *      Weigh amines into 8 mL vials.
         *      Using Tecan, dissolve amines to 100 mM in DCM/CH3CN (1:2, from trough).
10       e      Weigh acid into 8 mL vials.
         *      Using Tecan, dissolve acids to 110 mM in DCM/CH3CN (1:2, from trough).
         *      Preload 1.2 mL Greiner plate with 30 mg PS-carbodiimide resin using Peli 1400
                Case Titer plate II. Use acetonitrile as the system solvent for synthesis.
         *      Add 200 mL (20 mmol, 1 equiv.) of amine to each well of the synthesis plates.
15       0      Add 200 mL (22 mmol, 1.1 equiv.) of acid to each well of the synthesis plates.
         *      Add 110 mL (22 mmol, 1.1 equiv.) of HOBt (0.20 M in DMF) to each well of the
                synthesis plates by 8-channel pipette.
         *      Seal plates with cap mat and shake (normal speed) at room temperature overnight.
         *      Load 20 mg/well PS-Trisamine resin into the synthesis plates using Titer plate
20              loader thin-I. Adjust resin amount based on its loading.
         *      Add 200 mL of DCM/CH3CN to plate.
         *      Foil seal plates and shake (fast speed) at room temperature overnight.
         *      Use methanol as system solvent for transfer to storage plate.
         *      Transfer 150 mL to the storage plate then wash 2 times with 150 mL of methanol
25              '(shake slowly for 5 min.). Perform transfers from Top in each well. (Needle
                height -2)
         *      Dry plates in Genevac.
         *      Make up analytical plates (2.5 mM theoretical) and submit for analysis.
                                                        65
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

         *      Dilution plates made up based on analytical results.
                Scheme 1c. Preparation of Oxalamides
                                                                                                                  0  R3
                                                                         O
                                                                                             R3 R4 NH      R         N  4
   R1 R 20 NH      +
                   +
                          CoIR                     -Y                                                           _    NN
                                                                       R2o                                    R
                                     O
 5 As a general procedure, one amine is allowed to react with ethyl oxalyl chloride in the
   presence of tertiary amine in organic solvent, such as dioxane, acetonitrile,
   tetrahydrofuran, tetrahydropyran, and dimethylformamide, at room temperature for 0.5 - 2
   hours. Then the second amine is added and the suspension is heated at 80 'C using oil bath
   overnight or at 160 'C in a microwave reactor for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture can be
10 subject to preparative HPLC, or an aqueous work-up and the crude product can typically
   be readily purified by recrystalization, flash column chromatography, or other methods
   well known to those of ordinary skill in the art to afford the pure oxalamide. Yields
   reported below were not optimized.
                Scheme 1d. Preparation of Ureas
                                                                                                             0
                                          R7\ NH                          PS-NCO/PS-NH 20            RgNH      LNR7R8
                 R 9 -NCO             +                  Dioxane
15                                        R8 -            rt, o/n              500C, 5h
   Scheme 2
                                 o      o
                0                                                 0                 R3        ~              0
   H2N                 H         XIX              X        N         OH          12             X      N          AR
                                     Vi             2(                OH         RIII                           R2
             H
    H2N                           2)              X 2+2)    l      3H2                          X2     ND    X3
           V                                              VII                                         VIII
                                          X1, X2 and X3 are each independently alkyl or alkoxy
                                                                    66
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Scheme 2 describes a method for preparation of pyrazines derivatives (VIII). For instance,
   reaction of substituted or unsubstituted 2,3-diaminopropionic acids (V) with 2,3-diones
   (VI) under heating conditions in the presence of base yields, after acidification, the
   substituted pyrazine-2-carboxylic acid (VII). The acid is condensed with various amines
 5 (III) to produce the desired amide (XIII) using the conditions shown in Scheme la.
   Scheme 3
                                      0                                                    HN R3
                                       tOEt
                                                  X4                         COOHR                        X                     N--3
   X4                CHO            x
                                    X
                                                                                                                                N
                                       -                                     C00H        -    III
                                                                 -                ~            0                               0
             Ix                                               xl                                     ~
                                           4
                                         X is alkyl, halide, alkoxy or thioalkyl.
   Scheme 3 describes a method for preparation of benzofuran derivatives (XII). For instance,
   reaction of 2-hydroxybenzaldehydes (IX) with 2-bromo-malonic acid diethyl ester (X)
10 under heating conditions in the presence of base yields substituted benzofuran-2
   carboxylic acid (XI). The acid is condensed with various amines (III) to produce the
   desired amide (XII) using the conditions shown in Scheme la.
   Scheme 4
                            X5
               O       H2 NN OH                  0                                               0
                           XIV                         X5        1. NaOH/DMF                           X5      1. N2 H4 .H20             X5
                          O                       N                                                N             -                 H2N
                                                           OH         2. XX          Ci                   OX6   2. MeOH                     OX6
               O                                 0                      XVI                      0                                   XVill
       XIII                               XV                                                XVII
                           X5                                                                                                 0
        0            H2 N       OH         O       X5                                           0      X5                 R1      OH
                          XV          R 1N               OH        1. NaOH/DMF             R 1N             OX                 11
   R 1OH
        II           carbodiimide              H                       2.X 6 X                      H                     carbodiimide
                                             XIX                         XVI                        XX
                                        X5 is H, alkyl, aryl, aryl-alkyl, heteroaryl-alkyl
                                        X6 is alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl
                                        X is halide.
                                                                          67
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Scheme 4 describes methods of preparation of an alkoxyalkyl amide (XX). In one method
   phthalic anhydride (XIII) is heated with amino alcohol (XIV) to give the alcohol (XV)
   which is then reacted with alkyl halide (XVI) in presence of a base to produce the alkoxy
   (XVII). Treatment of the phtalimide (XVII) with hydrazine produce the desired amine
 5 (XVIII) that is further condensed with the acid (II) as described in scheme 1 a to provide
   the alkoxyalkylamide (XX). Alternatively acid (II) is condensed with the amino alcohol
   (XIV) using the method describe in scheme la to provide the alcohol (XIX) that is further
   alkylated to give (XX).
   Scheme 5
                              X0                                            X7
                       H2 N         OH                                    HN- X0
         0                       0              0      X7                                       0      Xy   X8
                                                                           XXIII                            I
   R,,~ X                      X            R l    N-Y      OH                              R l     N1        ,Xg
         IV                Base                    H      o           carbodiimide                  H     o
                                                  XXII                                             XXIV
                                       X is halide
                                       X7 is H, alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, aryl, aryl-alkyl, heteroaryl-alkyl
10                                     X8 and Xg are each independently H, alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, arylalkyl and heteroarylalkyl.
   Scheme 5 describes a methods for the preparation of amido-amide (XXIV). Alkyl halide
   (IV) is treated with amino acid (XXI) as described in scheme lb to give the corresponding
   acid (XXII) that is further condensed with amine (XXIII) as described in scheme 1 a to
15 provide the amido amide derivative (XXIV).
                                                                68
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Scheme 6
                                                                  R2
                         0                             0           10
    H2N                                     N:OH]N
                                                 N)              HN -R 3         N             R2
                                     O                   OH       V -      x_                N3
     HOH                               X    0                 carbodimide  XgR2
               XXV                              XXVI                                 XXVil
                               R2
                                    HN               0
                                V        H2N             N'R2
                        carbodiimide      HO              3
                                               XXVIll
   Scheme 6 describes a methods for the preparation of benzooxazole (XXVIII). Amino
 5 phenol (XXV) can be condensed with a variety of reagents to form the benzoxazole
   (XXVI) having a wide variety of substituent X9 using a method described in the literature
   (see e.g, J.Med. Chem. 28 (1985) 1255) and/or by the method cited in Examples 39 to 47.
   The benzooxazole intermediate (XXVI) is then condensed with amine (V) using the
   method described in scheme la to give the amide (XXVII). Alternatively the amide
10 (XXVII) is prepared by first condensing the amino phenol (XXV) with the amine (V) to
   give the aminophenol intermediate (XXVIII) that is further converted to the benzoxazole
   (XXVII) using the various method described above.
   Measuring the Biological Activity of the Compounds of The Invention
   Cell based technologies and assays, such as those disclosed in WO 02/064631, andWO
15 03/001876, and U.S. Patent Publication US 2003-0232407 Al were used both to initially
   screen a wide variety of classes of compounds for agonist or antagonist activity for
   T1R1/T1R3 "savory" taste receptors, or T1R2/T1R3 "sweet" taste receptors that had been
   expressed in appropriate cell lines. Once initial "hits" were obtained for amide compounds
   in such cell lines, the same assays and also certain cell and/or receptor-based assays were
20 used as analytical tools to measure the ability of the compounds of Formula (I) to enhance
   the savory taste of MSG or the sweet taste of known sweeteners such as sucrose, fructose,
   and were used to provide empirical data to guide an interative process of synthesizing and
   testing structural variants of the amide compounds, in combination with occasional human
   taste testing of high interest compounds, so as to design, test, and identify species and
                                                    69
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   genuses of compounds with increased and optimized levels of desirable biological
   activities.
   Many embodiments of the inventions relate to the identification of specific compounds
   and classes of the amide compounds of Formula (I) that modulate (increase or decrease)
 5 the activity of the TlR1/TlR3 (preferably hTlR1/hTlR3) savory taste receptor (umami
   receptor), alone or in combination with another compound that activates hTlR1/hTlR3,
   e.g., MSG. Particularly, in many embodiments the invention relate to the amides of
   Formula (I) that modulate the activity of hT1R1/hT1R3 (human umami receptor) in vitro
   and/or in vivo. In another aspect, the invention relates to compounds that modulate the
10 human perception of savory (umami) taste, alone or in combination with another
   compound or flavorant, when added to a comestible or medicinal product or composition.
   Many embodiments of the inventions relate to the identification of classes and/or species
   of the amide compounds of Formula (I) that modulate (increase or decrease) the activity of
   the TlR2/TlR3 (preferably hTlR2/hTlR3) sweet taste receptor (alone or in combination
15 with another compound that activates hTlR2/hTlR3, or otherwise induces a sweet taste,
   e.g., sucrose, glucose, fructose, and the like. Particularly, the invention relates to the
   amides of Formula (I) that modulate the activity of hT1R2/hT1R3 (human sweet receptor)
   in vitro and/or in vivo. In another aspect, the invention relates to compounds that modulate
   the human perception of sweet taste, alone or in combination with another compound or
20 flavorant composition, when added to a comestible or medicinal product or composition.
   In some embodiments of the invention, it has been very unexpectedly discovered that at
   least some of the amide compounds of Formula (I) can modulate the human perception of
   both umami and sweet taste, alone or in combination with another compound or flavorant
   composition, when added to a comestible or medicinal product or composition.
25 In Vitro hTlR1/hTlR3 Umami Taste Receptor Activation Assay
   In order to identify new savory flavoring agents and enhancers, including compounds with
   savory agonist and enhancer activities (dual activity), the compounds of Formula (I) were
   screened in primary assays and secondary assays including compound dose response and
   enhancement assay. In a primary assay for potential ability to modulate umami taste,
30 amide compounds of Formula (I) that can be either savory flavoring agents in their own
   right or flavor enhancers of MSG are identified and scores of their activities are given as
                                                  70
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   percentage of the maximum MSG intensity (%). In compound dose response, an EC5o is
   calculated to reflect the potency of the compound as a savory agonist or enhancer.
   An HEK293 cell line derivative (See e.g., Chandrashekar, et al., Cell (2000) 100: 703-711)
   which stably expresses Gal5 and hTlR1/hTlR3 under an inducible promoter (see WO
 5 03/001876 A2) was used to identify compounds with savory tasting properties.
   Compounds covered in this document were initially selected based on their activity on the
   hTlR1/hTlR3-HEK293-Ga15 cell line. Activity was determined using an automated
   fluorometric imaging assay on a FLIPR instrument (Fluorometric Intensity Plate Reader,
   Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) (designated FLIPR assay). Cells from one clone
10 (designated clone 1-17) were seeded into 384-well plates (at approximately 48,000 cells per
   well) in a medium containing Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)
   supplemented with GlutaMAX (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), 10% dialyzed fetal bovine
   serum (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), 100 Units/ml Penicillin G, 100 pg/ml Streptomycin
   (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) and 60 pM mifepristone (to induce expression of
15 hTlR1/hTlR3, (see WO 03/001876 A2). 1-17 cells were grown for 48 hours at 370 C. 1-17
   cells were then loaded with the calcium dye Fluo-3AM (Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR),
   4 pM in a phosphate buffered saline (D-PBS) (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), for 1.5 hours at
   room temperature. After replacement with 25 pl D-PBS, stimulation was performed in the
   FLIPR instrument and at room temperature by the addition of 25 Pl D-PBS supplemented
20 with different stimuli at concentrations corresponding to twice the desired final level.
   Receptor activity was quantified by determining the maximal fluorescence increases (using
   a 480 nm excitation and 535 nm emission) after normalization to basal fluorescence
   intensity measured before stimulation.
   For dose-responses analysis, stimuli were presented in duplicates at 10 different
25 concentrations ranging from 1.5 nM to 30 pM. Activities were normalized to the response
   obtained with 60 mM monosodium glutamate, a concentration that elicits maximum
   receptor response. EC5os (concentration of compound that causes 50% activation of
   receptor) were determined using a non-linear regression algorithm, where the Hill slope,
   bottom asymptotes and top asymptotes were allow to vary. Identical results were obtained
30 when analyzing the dose-response data using commercially available software for non
   linear regression analysis such as GraphPad PRISM (San Diego, California).
                                                 71
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   In order to determine the dependency of hTlR1/hTlR3 for the cell response to different
   stimuli, selected compounds were subjected to a similar analysis on 1-17 cells that had not
   been induced for receptor expression with mifepristone (designated as un-induced
   1-17 cells). The un-induced 1-17 cells do not show any functional response in the FLIPR
 5 assay to monosodium glutamate or other savory-tasting substances. Compounds were
   presented to un-induced umami cells at 10 pM-or three times the maximum stimulation
   used in the dose-response analysis. Compounds covered in this document do not show any
   functional response when using un-induced umami cells in the FLIPR assay.
   In some aspects of the present invention, an EC5o of lower than about 10 mM is indicative
10 of compounds that induce TlR1/TlR3 activity and is considered a savory agonist.
   Preferably a savory agonist will have EC5o values of less than about 1 mM; and more
   preferably will have EC5o values of less than about 20 pM, 15 pM, 10 pM, 5 pM, 3 pM, 2
   pM, 1 pM, 0.8 pM or 0.5 pM.
   In umami taste enhancement activity assay experiments, which produce an "EC5o ratio"
15 measurement of how effectively the amide compounds of the invention enhance the savory
   flavorant (typically MSG) already in a test solution. A series of measurements of the dose
   response is run in solutions comprising MSG alone, then a second dose response is run
   with MSG in combination with predetermined amounts of a candidate compound of
   Formula (I) at the same time.
20 In this assay, increasing concentrations of monosodium glutamate (ranging from 12 pM to
   81 mM) were presented, in duplicates, in the presence or absence of a fixed concentration
   of the test compound. Typical compound concentrations tested were 30 PM, 10 PM, 3 PM,
   1 pM, 0.3 pM, 0.1 pM and 0.03 pM. The relative efficacy of compounds of Formula (I) at
   enhancing the receptor was determined by calculating the magnitude of a shift in the EC5o
25 for monosodium glutamate. Enhancement was defined as a ratio (EC5oR) corresponding to
   the EC5o of monosodium glutamate, determined in the absence of the test compound,
   divided by the EC5o of monosodium glutamate, determined in the presence of the test
   compound. Compounds exhibiting EC5oR > 2.0 were considered enhancers.
   Stated alternatively, "EC5o ratio" as compared to MSG is calculated based on the following
30 definitions:
   EC5o Ratio vs. MSG = EC5o (MSG)/EC5o (MSG + [Compound])
                                                72
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                wherein "[compound]" refers to the concentration of the compound of Formula (I)
   used to elicit (or enhance or potentiate) the MSG dose response.
   It should be noted that the EC5o ratio measured can depend somewhat on the concentration
   of the compound itself. Preferred savory enhancers would have a high EC5o Ratio vs.
 5 MSG at a low concentration of the compound used. Preferably the EC5o ratio experiments
   to measure umami enhancement are run at a concentration of a compound of Formula (I)
   between about 10 pM to about 0.1 ptM, or preferably at 1.0 pM or 3.0 pM.
   An EC5o ratio of greater than 1 is indicative of a compound that modulates (potentiates)
   hTlR1/hTlR3 activity and is a savory enhancer. More preferably, the savory taste
10 enhancer compounds of Formula (I) will have EC5o ratio values of at least 1.2, 1.5, 2.0,
   3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 8.0, or 10.0, or even higher.
   In one aspect, the extent of savory modulation of a particular compound is assessed based
   on its effect on MSG activation of TlR1/TlR3 in vitro. It is anticipated that similar assays
   can be designed using other compounds known to activate the TlR1/TlR3 receptor.
15 Specific compounds and generic classes of compounds that been shown to modulate
   hTlR1/hTlR3 based on their EC5o ratios evaluated according to the above formula are
   identified in the detailed description of the invention, the examples, and the claims.
   The procedures used for human taste testing of the umami/savory compounds of Formula
   (I) are reported hereinbelow. Comparable EC5o assays for activity of the compounds of
20 Formula (I) for sweet receptor agonism and/or sweet taste perception in humans are also
   reported hereinbelow.
   In Vitro hTlR2/hTlR3 Sweet Taste Receptor Activation Assay:
   An HEK293 cell line derivative (Chandrashekar, J., Mueller, K.L., Hoon, M.A., Adler, E.,
   Feng, L., Guo, W., Zuker, C.S., Ryba, N.J.,. Cel,l 2000, 100, 703-711.) that stably
25 expresses Ga15 and hTlR2/hTlR3 (Li, X., Staszewski, L., Xu, H., Durick, K., Zoller, M.,
   Adler, E. ProcNatl Acad Sci U S A 2002, 99, 4692-4696.) see also World Patent # WO
   03/001876 A2) was used to identify compounds with sweet taste enhancing properties.
   Compounds covered in this document were initially selected based on their activity on the
   hTlR2/hTlR3-HEK293-Ga1I5 cell line (Li, et al. vide supra).Activity was determined
30 using an automated fluorometric imaging assay on a FLIPR instrument (Fluorometric
   Intensity Plate Reader, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA) (designated FLIPR assay).
   Cells from one clone (designated S-9 cells) were seeded into 384-well plates (at
                                                    73
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   approximately 50,000 cells per well) in a medium containing DMEM Low Glucose
   (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), 10% dialyzed fetal bovine serum (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA),
   100 Units/ml Penicillin G, and 100 ptg/ml Streptomycin (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) (Li, et
   al. vide supra) see also World Patent #WO 03/001876 A2). S-9 cells were grown for 24
 5 hours at 37 'C. S-9 cells were then loaded with the calcium dye Fluo-3AM (Molecular
   Probes, Eugene, OR), 4 pM in a phosphate buffered saline (D-PBS) (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
   CA), for 1 hour at room temperature. After replacement with 25 pIl D-PBS, stimulation was
   performed in the FLIPR instrument and at room temperature by the addition of 25 pl D
   PBS supplemented with different stimuli at concentrations corresponding to twice the
10 desired final level. Receptor activity was quantified by determining the maximal
   fluorescence increases (using a 480 nm excitation and 535 nm emission) after
   normalization to basal fluorescence intensity measured before stimulation.
   For dose-responses analysis, stimuli were presented in duplicates at 10 different
   concentrations ranging from 60 nM to 30 ptM. Activities were normalized to the response
15 obtained with 400 mM D-fructose, a concentration that elicits maximum receptor response.
   EC50s were determined using a non-linear regression algorithm (using a Senomyx, Inc.
   software), where the Hill slope, bottom asymptotes and top asymptotes were allow to vary.
   Identical results were obtained when analyzing the dose-response data using commercially
   available software for non-linear regression analysis such as GraphPad PRISM (San
20 Diego, CA).
   In order to determine the dependency of hTlR2/hTlR3 for the cell response to different
   stimuli, selected compounds were subjected to a similar analysis on HEK293-Go15 cells
   (not expressing the human sweet receptor). The HEK293-GaL 15 cells do not show any
   functional response in the FLIPR assay to D-Fructose or any other known sweeteners.
25 Similarly, compounds covered in this document do not induce any functional response
   when using HEK293-Ga.15 cells in the FLIPR assay.
   EXAMPLES
   The following examples are given to illustrate a variety of exemplary embodiments of the
   invention and are not intended to be limiting in any manner.
30 For the purpose of this document, the compounds individually disclosed in the following
   Examples 1-174 and corresponding Tables A-E can be referred in shorthand by the number
                                                 74
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   of the example. For example, as shown immediately bellow, Example 1 discloses a
   synthesis of a particular compound (N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo[d] [1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide),
   and the results of experimental assays of its biological effectiveness, which compound is
   and can be referred to herein in shorthand form as Compound 1. Similarly, the first
 5 compound illustrated in Table A can be referred to elsewhere herein as Compound Al.
   Example 1
   N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
                        0
          K                 H
                To a solution of heptan-4-amine (8.06 mL, 54 mmol) in triethylamine (15.3 mL,
10 108 mmol) and dichloromethane (135 mL), was added, dropwise at 00 C, a solution of
   benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl chloride (10 g, 54 mmol) dissolved in dichloromethane (135
   mL). The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. Solvent was removed under reduced
   pressure and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The organic layer was washed
   successively with 1 N aq. HCl, 1 N aq. NaOH, water, brine, dried (MgSO4) and
15 concentrated. The residue was recrystallized in EtOAc and Hexanes to afford 6.9 g of N
   (heptan-4-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide (48.3%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (500
   MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.92 (t, 6H), 1.38 (m, 6H), 1.53 (m, 2H), 4.11 (m, 1H), 5.63 (m, 1H), 6.01
   (s, 2H), 7.98 (d, 1H), 7.27 (s, d, 2H). MS(M+H, 264).
                The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
20 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.2 ptM, and when present at 0.03 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 6.92.
   Example 2
   N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)benzo[d] [1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
     0                   0~ NL
                              H
                                                     75
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl
   chloride and 2-methylheptan-4-amine (example 2a). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93
   (m, 9H); 1.38 (m, 5H); 1.53 (m, 1H); 1.66 (m, 1H); 4.21 (m, 1H); 5.61 (d, 1H); 6.01 (s,
   2H); 6.82 (d, 1H); 7.26 (m, 2H). MS (278, M+H)
 5              a.          preparation of 2-methylheptan-4-amine:
                To a solution of 2-methylheptan-4-one (4.24 g, 33.07 mmol), in methanol (60 mL),
   were added ammonium acetate (25.50 g, 330.71 mmol) and sodium cyanoborohydride (
   2.08 g, 33.07 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 24
   hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was diluted with
10 water and basified with 15 % NaOH aqueous and extracted with ether. The extract was
   washed with brine, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and evaporated to
   give 3.3 g of 2-methylheptan-4-amine (77%). MS (M+H, 130).
                The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.22 pM.
15 Example 3
   N-(2-methylhexan-3-yl)benzo[d] [1,31dioxole-5-carboxamide
                             0
        o                          N
                                   H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl
   chloride and 2-methylhexan-3-amine (example 3a). IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93
20 (m, 9H); 1.37 (m, 3H); 1.56 (m, 1H); 1.83 (m, 1H); 4.01 (m, 1H); 5.67 (d, 1H); 6.02 (s,
   2H); 6.82 (d, 1H); 7.28 (m, 2H). MS (M+H, 264).
                a.          2-methylhexan-3-amine was prepared using the same procedure described
   in example 2a starting from 2-methylhexan-3-one. Yield:40%. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.86 (d, 3H); 0.91 (m, 6H); 1.20-1.29 (m, 2H);1.38-1.47 (m, 2H); 1.47 (s, 2H);
25 1.58 (m, 1H); 2.51 (m, 1H). MS (M+H,116).
                                                         76
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.61 pM.
   Example 4
   N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)benzo[d]          [1,31dioxole-5-carboxamide
                          0
 5                             H
                2,3-dimethylcyclohexanamine (20 pmol) and benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid (1.1 eq) were each dissolved in acetonitrile/dichloromethane (200 pL, 2:1). PS
   Carbodiimide resin (2 eq) was loaded into a 1.2 mL 96 well Greiner plate, followed by the
   addition of amine and acid solutions. Hydroxybenzotriazole (1. leq) was dissolved in DMF
10 (100 mL) and was added into the reaction well. The reaction was shaken overnight at room
   temperature. Once the reaction was completed, PS-Trisamine resin (1.5 eq) was added into
   the reaction mixture and the solution was allowed to shake overnight at room temperature.
   Acetonitrile (200 mL) was added into the reaction well, and the top clear solution was
   transferred into a new plate. The solution was evaporated to give N-(2,3
15 dimethylcyclohexyl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide. MS (M+H, 276.20).
                The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.45 ptM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 8.4.
   Example 5
20 N-(5-methylhexan-3-yl)benzo[d] [1,31dioxole-5-carboxamide
                               H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl
   chloride and 5-methylhexan-3-amine (example 5a). Yield: 48 %. IH NMR (500 MHz,
                                                     77
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 9H); 1.37 (t, 3H); 1.45 (m, 1H); 1.64 (m, 2H); 4.13 (m, 1H); 5.61 (d,
   1H); 6.01 (s, 2H); 6.82 (d, 1H); 7.27 (m, 2H). MS (M+H, 264).
                 a.          2-methylhexan-3-amine was prepared using the same procedure described
   in example 2a starting from 5-methylhexan-3-one. Yield:54%. MS (M+H, 116).
 5               The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.57 pM.
   Example 6
   (R)-methyl 2-(benzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                         0
                                    H
            o                N
              -~
                             H      0
                                      C
       o
10               Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl
   chloride and D-leucine methyl ester hydrochloride. Yield: 83 %. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.98 (m, 6H); 1.63-1.67 (m, 1H); 1.71-1.76 (m, 2H); 3.76 (s, 3H);4.83 (m, 1H);
   6.03 (s, 2H); 6.38 (d, 1H); 6.83 (d, 1H); 7.32 (s, 1H); 7.33 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 294). m.p:
   89-90 0C.
15               The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.34 ptM, and when present at 0.1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 4.9.
   Example 7
   N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)benzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-5-carboxamide
                           0
                                N
                                H
20    0
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-amine. MS (M+H, 296.6).
                                                       78
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.71 ptM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 7.8.
   Example 8
 5 (R)-N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                    H   HOH
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid and (R)-aminoleucinol. MS (M+H, 266.1)
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 9 ptM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.
   Example 9
   (R)-N-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-            benzo[d][1,3]dioxole
   5-carboxylic acid
                         0
                                      H
                              H
15
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using (R)-1-methoxy-4-methyl and
   pentan-2-amine (example 9a). Yield: 55%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.95 (m, 6H);
   1.43 (m, 1H); 1.55 (m, 1H); 1.65 (m, 1H); 3.36 (s, 3H);3.46 (m, 2H); 4.33 (m, 1H); 6.01 (s,
   2H); 6.13 (d, 1H); 6.82 (d, 1H); 7.28 (m, 2H). MS (M+H, 280).
20              a.          (R)- 1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-amine
                                                        79
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                To a solution of (R)-2-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione
   (example 9b) ( 3.87 g, 14.84 mmol) in methanol (30 mL), was added hydrazine hydrate
   (0.866 ml, 17.81 mmol) and the reaction mixture was warmed up to 45 'C for about 3
   hours. The mixture was acidified with 2N HCl and stirred at 45 0 C for 30 min. The
 5 solution was cooled to room temperature, filtered and evaporated. The residue was taken
   up with 2N NaOH and extracted with ether, dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to
   give 1.51 g of (R)-1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-amine. Yield 77 %. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.91 (im, 6H); 1.17 (im, 2H ); 1.58 (s, 2H ); 1.71 (im, 1H ); 3.02 (im, 1H ); 3.10
   (im, 1H ); 3.32 ( m, 1H); 3.35           (s, 3H ).
10              b.          (R)-2-(1 -methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoline- 1,3-dione
                (R)-2-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione (example 9c) (5.88 g,
   23.87 mmol) was dissolved in dry THF (25 mL) and hexamethyl-phosphoramide (30 mL)
   and the solution cooled to 0 0C. Sodium hydride (60 % in mineral oil, 1.15 g, 28.65 mmol )
   was added and after 10 minutes iodomethane (7.43 ml, 119.35 mmol ) was added dropwise
15 and the solution was warmed up slowly to room temperature and stirred over night. The
   reaction mixture was poured into ice/water, extracted with EtOAC, washed with brine,
   dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified on silica gel (20 %
   EtOAC in hexane ) to give 3.92 g of (R)-2-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoine
   1,3-dione (63 %).
20              c.          (R)-2-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione:
                Phthalic anhydride (10.30 g, 69.55 mmol ) and D-Leucinol (8.15 g, 69.55 mmol)
   were mixed in THF (100 mL), the reaction mixture was heated at 85 0C and refluxed for
   18 hours. After cooling to room temperature, water was added and the solution was
   extracted with EtOAC, the extracts were washed with 1 N HCl, water, aq. NaHCO3,
25 water and brine, dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to give 8.1 g of (R)-2-(1
   hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione (47 %). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3):
   6 0.94 (im, 6H); 1.54 ( m, 2H); 1.99 ( m, 1H); 3.86 ( m, 1H); 4.04 (im, 1H); 4.47 (im, 1H);
   7.72 ( m, 2H); 7.83 ( m, 2H).
                                                        80
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.5 pM.
   Example 10
   (R)-methyl 2-(benzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-6-carboxamido)-3-methylbutanoate
                         0       H
 5                                  0
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid and (R)-methyl 2-amino-3-methylbutanoate.Yield: 50%. MS (M+H; 280.1).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.16 pM.
10 Example 11
   2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentyl            dihydrogen phosphate
                           0
                                O~~
      O        -                N        P
                                H     HO |
        O                                OH
                 N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide     (example
   11 a) (0.57 mmol, 151 mg) was dissolved in anhydrous acetonitrile (2 ml) and 1 ml of 0.45
15 M solution of tetrazole in acetonitrile was added under nitrogen and stirred for 5 min. Then
   0.627 (1.1 eq, 207 pl) of dibenzyl diisopropyl phosphoroamidite was added drop wise
   under nitrogen. The mixture was stiffed for lh. The solvent was evaporated and a crude
   intermediate was dissolved in DCM and washed twice with 2% potassium carbonate and
   brine and dried with sodium sulphate. The material was dried down and oxidized with 5 ml
20 of tert.butylhydroperoxide (4 M solution in nonane) for 30 min. The solvent was
   evaporated and the dibenzylester intermediate was purified (preparative TLC). The benzyl
   groups were hydrolyzed using trifluoroacetic acid (3 ml of a mixture of 95% TFA and 5%
   water, 1.5 h, rt). The final product was dried down providing 69 mg (35%) of pure
                                                     81
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   material. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.88-0.90 (t, 6H), 1.23-1.27 (m, 2H), 1.36-1.37
   (m, 1H), 1.53-1.62 (m, 2H), 3.93 (s, 1H), 3.98 (s, 1H), 4.32 (s, 1H), 5.90 (s, 2H), 6.66-6.67
   (d, 1H), 6.98-6.99 (b, 2H), 7.14 (s, 2H);       31P: 6 0.51(s). MS (M+H, 346.0).
                a.          N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
 5 was prepared in a similar manner to example 4 from piperonylic acid and 2-amino-4
   methyl-pentan-1-ol.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 10.9 pM.
   Example 12
10 N-(hexan-3-yl)-4-methoxy-3-methylbenzamide
                                0
                                O   N
                                    H
        0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methylbenzoic acid
   and hexan-3-amine (example 28a). IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 6H); 1.41 (m,
   4H); 1.46 (m, 1H); 1.64 (m, 1H); 2.24 (s, 3H); 3.87(s, 3H); 4.08 (m, 1H); 5.69 (d, 1H);
15 6.83 (d, 1H); 7.54 (s, 1H); 7.62 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 250).
                The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0. 12 pM.
   Example 13
   (R)-N-(1-(dimethylamino)-4-methyl-1-oxopentan-2-yl)               benzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-5
20 carboxamide
                                                        82
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                     N
      P:                      N
                (R)-2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoic acid (example
   13a) (52 mg, 0.19 mmol) in DMF (4 mL) and dimethyl amine (2M in Methanol, 36 pL, 2
   eq) were condensed in presence of HOBt (26 mg, leq) and of 1-ethyl-3-(3
 5 dimethylaminopropyl)-carbodiimide hydrochloride (44 mg, 1.2 eq) at room temperature
   overnight. The reaction mixture was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in
   ethylacetate and washed successively with saturated NaHCO3 and water, dried over
   MgSO4 filtered and evaporated to give 48.6 mg of the product (84%). The material was
   further purified using RPHPLC. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93-0.94 (d, 3H), 1.03
10 1.05 (d, 3H), 1.48-1.52 (m, 1H), 1.59-1.63 (m,1H), 2.98 (s, 3H), 3.14 (s, 3H), 5.17-5.21
   (m, 1H), 6.01 (s, 2H), 6.80-6.82 (d, 1H), 6.89-6.91(d, 1H), 7.29-3.30 (d,lH), 7.33-7.35 (dd,
   1H). MS (M+H; 307.2).
                a.          (R)-2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoic acid:
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl
15 chloride and D-Leucine. Yield: 55%. MS (M+H, 280.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.06 pM.
   Example 14
   2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)pentyl               acetate
                             0
       0                           N
20
    <  0
                                   H
                To a solution of N-(1-hydroxypentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
   (example 14a) (59.8mg, 0.238mmol) in dichloromethane (5 mL) was added triethylamine
                                                         83
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   (166 mL, 1.19 mmol). Acetyl anhydride (112.5               mL, 1.19mmol) was slowly added and
   the mixture was stirred under argon at ambient temperature overnight. The solution was
   washed successively with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate, water and brine. The
   organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Filtration followed by solvent
 5 removal under reduced pressure afforded 50.8 mg of 2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6
   carboxamido)pentyl acetate (73%). 'H NMR(CDCl3): 6 J0.95 (t, 3H, J= 7.2 Hz), 1.43(m,
   2H), 1.57(m, 2H), 2.1 (s, 3H), 4.11(dd, 1H, J= 3.5 Hz, J= 11.5 Hz), 4.27(dd, 1H, J= 3.5
   Hz, J= 11.4 Hz), 4.29 (m, 1H), 6.02 (s, 2H), 6.1 (m, 1H), 6.82 (d, 1H, J = 8.4 Hz), 7.27
   (m, 2H). MS (M+H, 294).
10              a.           N-(1-hydroxypentan-2-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide was
   prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic acid
   and 2-aminopentan-1-ol. Yield: 76%. MS (M+H, 252).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 11.9 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
15 effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 4.1.
   Example 15
   (R)-N-(4-methyl-1-oxo-1-(2-(pvridin-3-yl)ethylamino)pentan-2-yl)               benzo
   [dl [1,3ldioxole-5-carboxamide
                           o        H
                    "-     N        N
     0                                     N
20              Prepared in a similar manner to example 13 using 2-(3-pyridyl)ethylamine and (R)
   2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoic acid (example 13a). (MS M+
   384.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.7 pM.
                                                        84
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Example 16
   N-((R)-1-(2-(hydroxymethyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)-4-methyl-1-oxopentan-2
   yl)benzo[d] [1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
                   0
        <Cr                    f    OH
 5              Prepared in a similar manner to example 13 using R/S propinol and (R)-2
   (benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoic acid (example 13a). (MS M+
   363.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3 pM.
10 Example 17
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-6-methylbenzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-5-carboxamide
                        0
          o~               NH
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 6-methylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5
   carboxylic acid and heptan-4-amine. MS (M+H, 278.67).
15              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.11 pM.
   Example 18
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-methylbenzo [d] [1,31 dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                                    85
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                               O
           o                      NH
                N-(heptan-4-yl)-3,4-dihydroxybenzamide (example 18a) (0.5 mmol) was dissolved
   in toluene (1.6 mL). P-Toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate (0.3eq) was added to the
   reaction, followed by addition of acetaldehyde (2eq). The reaction was performed using
 5 microwave (180C, 300W) and ran for 10 minutes. The solvent was evaporated. The
   residue was dissolved in methanol (1 ML) and purified by HPLC. Yield 20%, MS (M+H
   278.10).
                a.          N-(heptan-4-yl)-3,4-dihydroxybenzamide was prepared in a similar manner
   to example 4 using 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and heptan-4-amine. Yield: 25%. MS
10 (M+H, 252.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.1 ptM, and when present at 0.03 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 3.68.
   Example 19
15 Ethyl 2-(5-(heptan-4-ylcarbamoyl)benzo [d][1,3] dioxol-2-yl)acetate
           -- \    0                   0    2      '
                N-(heptan-4-yl)-3,4-dihydroxybenzamide (example 18a) (0.29 mmol, 75 mg) was
   dissolved in dry acetone with 6 eq excess (242 mg) of potassium carbonate then 1.2 eq
   excess (36 pl) of propynoic acid ethyl ester was added and a mixture was refluxed for 24 h.
20 The solvent was evaporated and a solid was dissolved in dichloromethane and extracted
   with 10% NaHCO3 and water. The crude product was purified by chromatography on
   silica gel to give 72 mg of desired product (71 %). IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91
                                                        86
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   0.94 (t, 6H), 1.23-1.30 (m, 4H), 1.37-1.41 (4H), 2.97-2.98 (d, 2H), 3.70-3.74 (dd, 2H),
   4.12-4.17 (m, 1H), 4.2-4.24 (m, 3H), 5.61-5.64 (d, 1H), 6.58-6.60 (t, 1H), 6.79-6.81 (d,
   1H), 7.23 (s, 1H), 7.60-7.85 (b, 1H). MS (M+ H, 350.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 14 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.5 .
   Example 20
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-2,2-dimethylbenzo[d] [1,31dioxole-5-carboxamide
                              NH
10              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using sodium 2,2
   dimethylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylate and 4-heptylamine (example 20a). Yield
   30%. 1H NMR: J6 J 0.92 (t, 6H, J= 7.2 Hz), 1.42 (m, 6H), 1.53 (m, 2H), 1.68 (s, 6H),
   4.12 (m, 1H), 5.61(d, 1H, J = 8.9 Hz), 6.72 (d, 1H, J= 8Hz), 7.16 (d, 1H, J= 1.5 Hz), 7.22
   (dd, 1H, J= 1.5 Hz, J= 17 Hz). MS (M+H, 292).
15              a.          Sodium 2,2-dimethylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylate and 4
   heptylamine:
                Ethyl 2,2-dimethylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylate (example 20b)(461mg, 2.08
   mmol) was stiffed in dioxane (16mL) and 1.0N aqueous NaOH (4.16 mL) for 20 hours at
   room temperature. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the desired
20 product (449mg). (M-H, 193).
                b.          Ethyl 2,2-dimethylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylate:
                Ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (910.9 mg, 5mmol) was combined with 2,2
   dimethoxypropane (1.23 mL, 10 mmol) and a catalytic amount of p-toluene sulfonic acid
   in toluene. The mixture was heated to reflux using a Dean-Stark trap for 20 hours. After
                                                        87
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   solvent removal under reduced pressure, the crude was dissolved in ethyl acetate and
   washed successively with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate, water, and
   brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Purification by
   chromatography on silica gel using a gradient hexane:ethyl acetate, 90:10 to 75:25,
 5 afforded a white powder (539. 1mg, 49%). 'H NMR(CDCl3): 6 J 1.36 (t, 3H, J= 7.2Hz),
   1.69 (s, 6H), 4.32 (q, 2H, J= 7.1 Hz, J= 14.2 Hz), 6.74 (d, 1H, d, J= 8.2Hz), 7.38 (d, lh,
   J= 1.7 Hz), 7.61 (dd, 1H, J= 1.8 Hz, J= 8.3 Hz).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.7 pM.
10 Example 21
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-isopropylbenzo[dl [1,31dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                   O
                     0:0'            H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-isopropylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole
   5-carboxylic acid (example 21a) and 4-hepthylamine. Yield: 34%. 'H NMR(CDCl3): 6
15 0.92 (t, 6H, J= 7.2Hz) J J, 1.04 (d, 6H, J= 6.9 Hz), 1.40 (m, 6H), 1.43 (m, 2H), 2.15 (m,
   1H), 4.11 (m, 1H), 5.62 (d, 1H, J = 8.9Hz), 5.96 ( d, 1H, J = 4.4 Hz), 6.75 (d, 1H, J = 8.0
   Hz), 7.19 (d, 1H, J = 1.8 Hz), 7.22 (d, 1H, J= 1.9 Hz), 7.23 (d, 1H, J        = 1.6 Hz). MS (M+H,
   291).
                a.          2-isopropylbenzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic acid: 3,4-dihydrobenzoic
20 acid (154.12 mg, 1mmol)and isobutyraldehyde ( 182 pL, 2 mmoles) were combined in
   toluene (3mL) and a catalytic amounts of p-toluene sulfonic acid was added. The mixture
   was subjected to the microwave for 10 minutes at 180 0 C with a power set at 275. The
   solution was filtered and evaporated to afford 100mg of the desired product (48%). MS
   (M-H, 207).
                                                        88
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 11.5 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.2 .
   Example 22
 5 2,2-difluoro-N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo [d] [1,3] dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                0
                                0
        rF 0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2,2-difluorobenzo[d][1,3]dioxole
   5-carboxylic acid and 4-hepthylamine. (M+H, 300.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.51 pM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.87.
   Example 23
   2,3-Dihvdro-benzo[1,4]dioxine-6-carboxylic          acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                    0
                                      NH
                             (,0
15              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2,3-Dihydro-benzo[1,4]dioxine-6
   carboxylic acid and heptan-4-amine. MS (M+H, 278.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.49 pM.
   Example 24
20 N-(heptan-4-yl)-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo [b] [1,41 dioxepine-7-carboxamide
                                                    89
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                               0
                                    H
          0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2,3-Dihydro-benzo[1,4]dioxine-6
   carboxylic acid and heptan-4-amine. MS (M+H, 292.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hT1R1/hT1R3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6.4 pM.
   Example 25
   benzofuran-2-carboxylic(1-propylbutyl)amide
                             0          0
                                         N
                      a_-)               H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 1 using benzofuran-2-carbonyl chloride
10 and heptan-4-amine. Yield: 73%. IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t, 6H, J = 7.2 Hz),
   1.41 (m, 8H), 3.01 (s, 3H), 4.18 (m, 1H), 6.29 (d, 1H, J= 9.94 Hz), 7.20 (d, 1H, J= 8.62
   Hz), 7.37 (m, 2H), 7.44 (s, 1H). MS (M+H, 260)
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hT1R1/hT1R3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.88 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
15 effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.6 .
   Example 26
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                       0
                             0      / N
                                    /H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxylic
20 acid (example 26a) and heptan-4-amine. Yield: 46%.         'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94
                                                    90
   10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

   (t, 6H, J= 7.2 Hz), 1.41 (m, 10H), 2.44 (s, 1H), 4.18 (m, 1H), 6.29 (d, 1H, J= 8.6 Hz),
   7.21 (d, 1H, J= 8.4 Hz), 7.37(m, 2H), 7.44 (s, 1H). MS (M+H, 274)
                a.          5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxylic acid: 2-Hydroxy-5-methylbenzaldehyde
   (544.2 mg, 4 mmol) was combined with diethylbromomalonate (1 mL, 6 mmol) and
 5 potassium carbonate (1.1 g, 8 mmol) in methyl ethyl ketone (5 mL) and the mixture was
   heated to reflux overnight. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation to afford a
   crude oil. The oil was then taken in a 10% solution of potassium hydroxide in ethanol (10
   mL) and heated to reflux for 45 minutes. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure
   and the residue was then treated with a 2.0 N solution of H2SO4. The free acid was then
10 extracted with copious amounts of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate. Ethyl acetate removal afforded 566mg of 5-Methyl-2
   carboxybenzofuran (80%) as of a yellowish powder. IH NMR (500 MHz, CD30D):
   6 J2.44 (s, 3H), 7.30 (d, 1H, J= 8.7 Hz), 7.45 (d, 1H, J= 8.5 Hz), 7.51 (d, 2H, J= 7.5 Hz
15              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.94 pM.
   Example 27
   (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamido)pentanoate
                                    0 0
                                     / N-- H
                                       H     0
                                          0
20              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxylic
   acid (example 26a) and D-leucine methyl ester. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 J J0.98 (d,
   3H, J= 6.26 Hz ), 1.00 (d, 3H, J= 6.17 Hz), 1.56 (s, 3H), 1.76 (m, 3H), 2.48 (s, 3H), 3.78
   (s, 3H), 4.86 (m, 1H), 6.95 (m, 1H), 7.23 (dd, 1H, J= 8.54 Hz, J= 1.55 Hz ), 7.40 (m, 2H).
   7.44 (dd, 1H, J= 1.72, J= 0.9 Hz). MS 304 (M+H, 304)
25              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.11 pM.
                                                       91
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 28
   N-(hexan-3-yl)-5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                    0  HNC
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxylic
 5 (example 26a) and hexan-3-amine (example 28a) .Yield: 49%. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 110.94 (m, 6H), 1.40-1.68 (m, 6H), 2.36 (s, 3H), 4.07 (m, 1H), 5.74 (d, 1H, J=
   8.97 Hz), 7.16 (d, 1H, J= 7.80 Hz), 7.31 (dd, 1H, J= 1.73 Hz, J= 1.73 Hz), 7.66 (d, 1H, J
    =  1.72 Hz). MS (M+H, 260).
                a.          Hexan-3-amine was prepared using the same procedure described in
10 example 2a starting from hexan-3-one. Yield: 58 %. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94
   (m, 6H); 1.36-1.58 (m, 6H); 2.83 (m, 1H); 3.12 (s, 2H). MS: (102, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.74 pM.
   Example 29
15 N-(hexan-3-yl)-5-methoxybenzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                 0
                                         HN-C
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methoxybenzofuran-2
   carboxylic acid and hexan-3-amine (example 28a). Yield: 32%. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.96 (m, 6H); 1.40-1.67 (m, 6H); 3.85 (s, 3H); 4.09 (m, 1H); 6.28 (d, 1H); 7.01
20 (dd, 1H); 7.08 (d, 1H); 7.38 (m, 2H). MS (276, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.4 pM.
                                                      92
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 30
   (R)-methyl 3-cyclohexyl-2-(5-methoxybenzofuran-2-carboxamido)            propanoate
                                              0
                                          0
                        o             /       N      H
                                                      0
                                                   0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methoxybenzofuran-2
 5 carboxylic acid and (R)-methyl 2-amino-3-cyclohexylpropanoate. Yield: 45%. MS
   (M+H, 260.3).
                The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.14 pM.
   Example 31
10 5-methoxy-N-(5-methylhexan-3-yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                    0        0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-methoxybenzofuran-2
   carboxylic acid and 5-methylhexan-3-amine (example 5a). Yield: 67%. 'H NMR (500
   MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.96 (m, 9H); 1.39-1.52 (m, 3H); 1.66 (m, 2H); 3.85 (s, 3H); 4.17 (m,
15 1H); 6.24 (d, 1H); 7.01 (dd, 1H); 7.08 (d, 1H); 7.38 (m, 2H). MS (290, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.04 pM.
   Example 32
   Preparation of (R)-methyl 4-chloro-2-(5-methylbenzofuran-2
20 carboxamido)pentanoate
                                0     0
                                               H
                                        H        0
                Ci
                                            0
                                                        93
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-chlorobenzofuran-2-carboxylic
   acid and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 324).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.82 pM.
 5 Example 33
   (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(3-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamido)pentanoate
                                    / N0    H
                                            H,
                                              0
                       a-(H
                                          0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-methylbenzofuran-2-carboxylic
   acid and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 304).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.18 pM.
   Example 34
   N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo[blthiophene-2-carboxamide
                              S        O
                                     / N
                                        H
15              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[b]thiophene-2-carboxylic
   acid and 4-hepthylamine. MS (M+H, 276).
                The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.21 pM.
   Example 35
20 N-(heptan-4-yl)-1H-indole-2-carboxamide
                                                    94
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                          H
                                   NN
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1H-indole-2-carboxylic acid and
   4-hepthylamine. MS (M+H, 259).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6.8 pM.
   Example 36
   (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(5-methyl-1H-indole-2-carboxamido)pentanoate
                                      H
                                      N HN   - H
                                      /  000     \
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-Methyl-1H-indole-2-carboxylic
10 acid and D-leucine methyl ester. Yield: 50%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 J J0.98(d,
   3H, J= 6.3Hz), 1.00(d, 3H, J= 6.1 Hz), 2.44 (s, 3H), 3.784(s, 3H), 4.87(m, 1H), 6.56 (d,
   1H, J= 8.39 Hz), 6.85 (dd, 1H, J=1.94 Hz, J= 0.68 Hz), 7.12 (dd, 1H, J= 8.46 Hz, J
   1.55 Hz), 7.3 1(d, 1H, J= 8.45 Hz), 7.42 (s, 1H).. MS (MH+, 303).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
15 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6.6 pM.
   Example 37
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-1-methyl-1H-indole-2-carboxamide
                              N
                                      0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1-methyl-1H-indole-2-carboxylic
20 acid and 4-hepthylamine. Yield 45%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.95 (t, 6H, J = 7.2
                                                    95
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Hz), 1.46 (m, 4H), 1.57 (m, 4H), 4.05 (s, 3H), 4.15 (m, 1H), 5.85 (d, 1H), 6.80 (s, 1H),
   7.14 (t, 1H, J= 7.4 Hz), 7.31 (t, 1H, J= 7.5 Hz), 7.38 (d, 1H, J= 8.4 Hz), 7.62 (d, 1H, J=
   8 Hz). MS (M+H, 273).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.79 pM.
   Example 38
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-1H-benzo[dlimidazole-5-carboxamide
                     N              O
                 HN                  Ne
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1H-benzo[d]imidazole-5
10 carboxylic acid and 4-hepthylamine. Yield: 80%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 J J
   (t, 6H, J= 7.2 Hz), 1.42 (m, 6H), 1.57 (m, 2H), 4.21 (m, 1H), 6.18 (m, 1H), 7.64 (m, 2H),
   8.16 (m, 1H), 8.28 (s, 1H). MS (M+H, 260).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 18.6 pM.
15 Example 39
   benzooxazole-5-carboxylic acid (1-propylbutyl)amide
                        N       ~0N
                       <            H
                  0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzooxazol-5-carboxylic acid
   (Example 39a) and 4-heptylamine. 1H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 J J 8.16 (d, J= 5.4 Hz,
20 1H), 7.89 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H),5.82 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H) 4.10-4.22
   (m, 1H), 1.58-1.62 (m, 4H), 1.40-1.49 (m, 4H), 0.95 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 6H);
   ESIMS: 261 (M+H).
                                                    96
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                a.            benzooxazol-5-carboxylic acid: A mixture of 3-amino-4-hydroxybenzoic
   acid (500 mg, 3.26 mmol) and trimethyl orthoformate (5 mL) was heated at 65 0 C for 2 h
   under argon. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered and washed
   with hexanes. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a white solid
 5 (78 mg, 15%): 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 8.57 (d, J= 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.20 (dd, J= 8.4,
   1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.20 (s, 1H), 7.67 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 1H). MS (M+H, 164).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.91 pM.
   Example 40
10 2-Methyl-benzooxazole-5-carboxylic               acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                      0
                        N               N
                                        W
                      / --          -1H
                        0,
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 starting from 2-methyl benzooxazol-5
   carboxylic acid (example 40) and 4-heptylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3) 6 8.00 (d, J
   = 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (d, J= 8.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H),5.79 (d, J= 8.9 Hz,
15 1H for NH) 4.10-4.22 (m, 1H), 2.66 (s, 3H), 1.58-1.65 (m, 4H), 1.38-1.55 (m, 4H), 0.94 (t,
   J= 7.2 Hz, 6H); MS(APCI, M+1): 275.2.
                a.          2-methyl benzooxazol-5-carboxylic acid: A mixture of 3-amino-4
   hydroxybenzoic acid (1.5 g, 9.79 mmol) and trimethyl orthoacetate (15 mL, large excess)
   was heated at 65 0C for 5 hrs under argon. The reaction mixture was cooled to room
20 temperature, filtered, washed with hexanes. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to
   afford the product as a yellow solid (1.4 g, 80%): IH NMR (500 MHz, CD30D) 6 8.26 (d,
   J= 1.7 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (dd, J= 8.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 2.67 (s, 1H);
   MS(APCI, M+1): 178.10.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
25 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.33 pM.
                                                         97
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 41
   2-Ethyl-benzooxazole-5-carboxylic          acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
               N                    0N
                   /                   H
                A mixture of 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1-propylbutyl)benzamide (example 41a) and
 5 trimethyl orthopropyrate was heated at 65 0C for 5 hr under N2. The reaction mixture was
   cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified
   on silica gel via Preparative-TLC (3% MeOH in CH2Cl2) to afford the product as a white
   solid (42 mg, 73%): mp 107-108 OC; MS(APCI, M+1): 289.10.
   a.           3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1-propylbutyl)benzamide was prepared in a similar manner
10 to example 4 using 3-Amino-4-hydroxybenzoic acid and 4-heptylamine. Yield 57 %.1H
   NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t, 6H); 1.26-1.51 (m, 8H); 4.09 (m, 1H); 6.74 (m, 1H);
   7.05 (s, 1H); 7.43 (m, 2H); 7.77 (m, 2H).MS: (251, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.68 pM.
15 Example 42
   2-Methoxy-benzooxazole-5-carboxylic           acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                        0
                               N          N
                    0   /-                H
                           0        -C
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 41 using 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1
   propylbutyl)benzamide (example 4aa) and tetramethylorthocarbonate. Yield: 60%. mp
20 137-138 OC; MS (M+H, 291.10).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.69 pM.
                                                     98
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 43
   2-Ethoxy-benzooxazole-5-carboxylic             acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                              0
                                  N             N
                                  0      -,
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 41 using 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1
 5 propylbutyl)benzamide (example 41a) and tetraethoxymethane: mp 128-129 0C; MS
   (M+H, 305.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5 pM.
   Example 44
10 N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-(methylthio)benzo[dloxazole-5-carboxamide
                           N             0 NL
                           0_       -",,
                To a solution of N-(Heptan-4-yl)-2-(mercapto)benzo[d]oxazole-5-carboxamide
   (example 44a) (50 mg, 0.17 mmol) in DMF (3 mL) at 0 0C was added K2CO3 (29 mg, 0.17
   mmol) and Mel (29 mg, 0.20). The resulting reaction mixture was heated at 80 OC
15 overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with
   dichloromethane and washed with water, dried (Na2SO4), filtered, concentrated in vacuo,
   purified via PTLC (15% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the product as a white solid (50 mg,
   96%): mp 113-114 OC; IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3) 6 7.94 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (dd, J
   = 8.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.76 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.15-4.25 (m, 1H),
20 2.77 (s, 3H), 1.58-1.65 (m, 2H), 1.1.38-1.55 (m, 6H), 0.94 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 6H); MS(APCI,
   M+): 307.2.
                                                       99
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                a.          N-(Heptan-4-yl)-2-(mercapto)benzo[d]oxazole-5-carboxamide: To a
   solution 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1-propylbutyl)benzamide (example 41a) (250 mg, 1.0
   mmol) in EtOH was added KSCSOEt (160 mg, 1.0 mmol). The resulting reaction mixture
   was heated at 80 0C overnight. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. And the
 5 residue was taken up in water. The resulting mixture was acidified with HOAc to pH ~ 5
   and then filtered. The residue was washed with water to afford the product as a white solid
   (160 mg, 55%). MS (M+H, 293.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.1 pM.
10 Example 45
   Chloromethyl benzooxazol-5-carboxylic acid (1-propyl-butyl)amide
                                        0
                              N
                                              'N
                                            H
                      C      /-
                CI            O0H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 41 using 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1
   propylbutyl)benzamide (example 41a) and trimethyl chloro-orthoacetate. Yield: 65%. mp
15 108.5-109 0C. MS (M+H, 309.05).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.23 pM.
   Example 46
   2-Methyl-benzooxazole-6-carboxylic              acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                    0
                       0              N
                                      N  "
                                      H
20                     N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-methyl benzooxazol-6
   carboxylic acid (example 46a) and 4-heptylamine Yield 50%: 'H NMR (500 MHz,
                                                       100
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   CD30D) 6 8.19 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (dd, J= 8.3, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J= 8.2 Hz,
   1H), 2.68 (s, 1H); MS (M+1, 178.10).
                a.           2-methyl benzooxazol-6-carboxylic acid was prepared in a similar manner
   to example 40a from 4-amino-3-hydroxybenzoic acid (50%): 'H NMR (500 MHz,
 5 CD30D) 6 8.19 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1H), 8.05 (dd, J= 8.3, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d, J= 8.2 Hz,
   1H), 2.68 (s, 1H); MS (M+H, 178.10).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.1p M.
   Example 47
10 2-Chloromethyl-benzooxazole-6-carboxylic                acid (1-propyl-butyl)-amide
                                     0
                                        N
                           N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 41 using 3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1
   propylbutyl)benzamide (example 47a) and trimethyl chloro-orthoacetate. The product was
   obtained as a white solid (45 mg, 73%): mp 137.0-137.5 OC; MS (M+H, 309.05.
15              a.           3-amino-4-hydroxy-N-(1-propylbutyl)benzamide was prepared in a similar
   manner to example 41a from 4-amino-3-hydroxybenzoic acid. Yield: 50%. 'H NMR (500
   MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91 (t, 6H); 1.41 (m, 6H); 1.54 (m, 2H); 4.13 (m, 1H); 5.81 (d, 1H); 6.63
   (d, 1H), 6.95 (d, 1H); 7.82 (s, 1H). MS: (251, M+H)
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
20 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.45 pM.
   Example 48
   4-methyl-3-methylsulfanyl-N-(1-propylbutyl)benzamide
                                                        101
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                    s0
                                    H
                Preapared in a similar manner as example 4 using 4-methyl-3-(methylthio)benzoic
   acid (example 48a) and 4-heptylamine. Yield: 50%. 1H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t,
   6H, J= 7.2 Hz), 1.40-1.41 (m, 8H), 2.35 (s, 3H), 2.51 ( s, 1H), 4.15 (m, 1H), 5.75 (d, 1H, J
 5 =   8.5 Hz), 7.15 (d, 1H, J= 7.8 Hz), 7.31 (d, 1H, J= 7.8 Hz), 7.65 (d, 1H, J= 1.5 Hz). MS
   (M+H, 280).
                a.            4-methyl-3-(methylthio)benzoic acid: 3-Amino-4-methylbenzoic acid was
   suspended in ice-water (55 mL), and concentrated HCl (8.56 mL) was slowly added. An
   aqueous solution of sodium nitrite (2.4 g in 5.5 mL) was added to the suspension over a
10 period of 15 minutes and the mixture was stirred for another 15 minutes. Then, an aqueous
   solution of sodium acetate (9.31 g in 18 mL) was added dropwise. The reaction was
   allowed to proceed for 45 min. A heavy orange precipitate was obtained. The precipitate
   was filtered off and washed with small portions of ice-cold water. The solid was combined
   with a solution of potassium xanthogenate (11.93 g) and potassium carbonate (8.22 g) in
15 250 mL of water. The reaction vessel was placed in a preheated oil bath at 70 0 C and the
   mixture was stirred for 25 minutes. The reddish solution was taken out of the bath and
   stirred for 15 minutes or until the temperature reached 300 C. Sodium hydroxide (0.782 g)
   was added and stirred to dissolution. Dimethylsulfate (5.70 mL) was added. The mixture
   was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature then briefly refluxed. Solvent removal under
20 reduced pressure yielded an orange solid. The solid was treated with a 2.0 N solution of
   H2SO4 and extracted with EtOAc. The extracts were washed with water then dried over
   anhydrous MgSO4. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give a reddish
   crude solid. The solid was adsorbed on silica gel and purified by column chromatography
   (gradient 5 to 50% ethyl acetate in hexane) to give 4-methyl-3-(methylthio)benzoic acid as
25 a pale yellow powder (2 g). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 2.39 (s, 3H), 2.54 (s, 3H), 7.24
   (d, 1H, J= 7.8 Hz), 7.79 ( d, 1H, J= 7.8 Hz), 7.86 (d, 1H, J= 1.5 Hz).
                                                         102
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.21 pM.
   Example 49
   (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4-methyl-3-(methylthio)benzamido)pentanoate
                                    0
                                         H
                            S          N   0
                                         0
 5
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-methyl-4-(methylthio)benzoic
   acid (example 48a) and D Leucine methyl ester. Yield: 45%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3):
   6 0.97 (d, 3H, J= 6.36Hz), 0.99 (d, 3H, J= 6.1 Hz), 1.64-1.77 (m, 2H), 2.36 (s, 3H),
   2.51(s, 3H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.85(m, 1H), 6.50 (d, 1H, J= 8.10 Hz), 7.18 (d, 1H, J=7.83 Hz),
10 7.38 (dd, 1H, J= 7.77 Hz, J= 1.78Hz), 7.65 (d, 1H, J= 1.65 Hz). MS (M+H, 310).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.1 pM.
   Example 50
   (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4-(methylthio)benzamido)pentanoate
                                  0
                                    NH
                   S"C~
15
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-(methylthio)benzoic acid and D
   Leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 296).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.16 pM.
20 Example 51
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-methyl-4-(methylthio)benzamide
                                                    103
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                     0
                                 -~      N
                                         H
                 N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-methyl-4-(methylthio)benzoic
   acid (example 5la) and 4-hepthylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t, 6H); 1.37
   1.46 (m, 6H); 1.54-1.56 (m, 2H); 2.35 (s, 3H); 2.49 (s, 3H); 4.17 (m, 1H); 5.73 (d, 1H);
 5 7.14 (d, 1H); 7.52 (s, 1H);7.58 (d, 1H). MS (280, M+H ) m.p: 129-131 0C.
                a.            3-methyl-4-(methylthio)benzoic acid was prepared using the same
   procedure described in example 48a starting from 3-Amino-4-methylbenzoic acid. Yield
   30 %. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 2.36 (s, 3H); 2.53 (s, 3H); 7.17 (d, 1H); 7.85 (s, 1H);
   7.93 (d, 1H).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.12 pM.
   Example 52
   4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                    0~ N
                                           '
                                       H
15              Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 using 4-methoxy-3
   methylbenzoic acid and 2-methyl-4-heptanamine (example 2a). Yield: 45%. 1H NMR
   (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (m, 9H); 1.39 (m, 5H); 1.53 (m, 1H); 1.67 (m, 1H); 2.24 (s,
   3H); 3.86 (s, 3H); 4.23 (m, 1H); 5.64 (d, 1H); 6.82 (d, 1H); 7.54 (s, 1H); 7.61 (d, 1H). MS
   (278, M+H).
20              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.1 pM.
                                                         104
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 53
   4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(5-methylhexan-3-yl)benzamide
                                     0
                                        N
                                       H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methylbenzoic acid
 5 and 5-methylhexan-3-amine (example 5a). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 9H);
   1.38 (m, 2H); 1.47 (m, 1H); 1.65 (m, 2H); 2.24 (s, 3H); 3.86 (s, 3H); 4.16 (m, 1H); 5.65 (d,
   1H); 6.83 (d, 1H); 7.54 (s, 1H); 7.61 (d, 1H). MS (264, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.09 pM.
10 Example 54
   4-methoxy-N-(1-(4-methoxyphenyl)butyl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                     0
                                  -~   N
                                       H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-methyl-4-methoxy-benzoic acid
   and 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)butan-1-amine (example 54a).Yield 52%. IH NMR (500 MHz,
15 CDCl3): 6 0.94 (t, 3H); 1.31-1.41 (m, 2H); 1.82-1.92 (m, 2H); 2.22 (s, 3H); 3.79 (s,
   3H);3.86 (s, 3H); 5.11 (m, 1H); 6.14 (d, 1H); 6.81 (d, 1H); 6.88 (d, 2H). 7.28 (d, 2H); 7.53
   (s, 1H); 7.61 (d, 1H). MS (328, M+H).
                a.           1-(4-methoxyphenyl)butan-1-amine was prepared as described in example
   2a from 1-(4-methoxyphenyl)butan-1-one. Yield 90%. MS (M+H, 180).
20              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.14 pM.
                                                        105
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 55
   (R)-4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(3-methyl-1-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
   yl)butyl)benzamide
                                    0
                                         H
                                       N   O
                                       H   N N
                 MeO                       N
 5              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methylbenzoic acid
   and 3-methyl-1-(3-methyl-[1,2,4]oxadiazol-5-yl)-butylamine          (Example 55a). MS (M+H,
   318).
                a. (R)-3-methyl-1-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)butan-1-amine:    Boc-D-Leu-OH
   (0.23 g, 1 mmol) was treated with N-hydroxyacetamidine (74 mg, 1 eq) and DIC (155 pL,
10 1 eq) in dioxane (2 mL) at room temperature overnight. Another portion of DIC (1 equiv)
                                                              0
   was added and the reaction mixture was heated at I I         C for 4 hours. After removal of the
   solvent, the residue was treated with 50% TFA/DCM (2 mL) for 1 h and then the solvent
   was evaporated. The crude mixture was purified by preparative HPLC (C-18 column,
   MeOH-H20 mobile phase and formic acid as modifier) to give 75 mg of the amine (45%
15 yield). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.95 (d, 3H), 0.99 (d, 3H), 1.70-1.78 (m, IH), 1.92
   1.98 (m, 2H), 2.39 (s, 3H), 3.50 (b, 2H, NH2), 4.65 (t, IH). MS (M+H, 170).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTIRI/hTIR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5.4 pM.
   Example 56
20 4-ethoxy-N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                    0
                                      NH
                                                    106
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner as example 4 using 4-ethoxy-3-methyl benzoic acid
   (example 56a) and 4-heptylamine. Yield: 75%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t,
   6H); 1.37-1.45 (m, 6H); 1.53-1.59 (m, 2H); 2.24 (s, 3H); 4.07 (q, 2H); 4.15 (m, 1H); 5.67
   (d, 1H); 6.80 (d, 1H); 7.54 (s, 1H); 7.58 (d, 1H). MS (278, M+H)
 5              a.          4-ethoxy-3-methyl benzoic acid: 4-hydroxy-3-methyl benzoic acid (10 g)
   was dissolved in DMF (400 mL) followed by the addition of sodium carbonate (3eq). Ethyl
   iodide (3eq) was dissolved in DMF (50 mL) was added dropwise to the reaction mixture
   and the solution was stirred overnight. After the reaction was completed, the solvent was
   evaporated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic
10 layer was isolated and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in 200mL methanol/water
   (3:1). Lithium hydroxide (3eq) was added and allowed to stir overnight. Upon the
   completion of hydrolysis, the solvent was removed and the product was crystallized using
   ethyl acetate/hexane mixture to give 8.2 g of 4-ethoxy-3-methyl benzoic acid. Yield: 70%,
   MS (M-H, 179.20).
15              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.17 pM.
   Example 57
   4-ethoxy-N-(1-methoxypentan-2-yl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                    0
                                      NH
20              Prepared in a similar manner as example 4 using 4-ethoxy-3-methyl benzoic acid
   (example 56a) and 1-methoxypentan-2-amine (example 57a). Yield: 33%. MS (M+H,
   280.1).
                a.           1-methoxypentan-2-amine was prepared in a similar manner to example 9a
   from 2-(1-methoxypentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione (example 57b). Yield 67%. 'H NMR
25 (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91 (t, 3H ); 1.24 -1.45 (m, 4H ); 1.52 ( s, 2H); 2.94 ( m, 1H);
   3.12 (t, 1H ); 3.33 (im, 1H ); 3.35 ( s, 3H ).
                                                       107
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                b.          2-(1-methoxypentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione was prepared in a similar
   manner to example 9b from 2-(1-hydroxypentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione (example 57c).
   Yield: 82%. H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91 (t, 3H); 1.32 (im, 2H); 1.64 (im, 1H);
   2.03 ( m, 1H ); 3.31 ( s, 3H ); 3.54 ( m, 1H ); 3.98 ( t, 1H ); 4.50 ( m, 1H ); 7.70 ( m, 2H);
 5 7.82 (m, 2H).
                c.          2-(1-hydroxypentan-2-yl)isoindoline-1,3-dione was prepared in a similar
   manner to example 9c using isobenzofuran-1,3-dione and 2-aminopentan-1-ol. Yield 62%.
   'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.92 (t, 3H); 1.33 (im, 2H); 1.76 (im, 1H); 1.95 (im, 1H
   ); 3.88 (im, 1H); 4.06 (im, 1H); 4.39 (im, 1H); 7.72 (im, 2H); 7.83 (im, 2H).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.69 pM.
   Example 58
   4-hydroxy-3-methyl-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-benzamide
                                    0~ N
                HOH
15              Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 using 4-hydroxy-3-methyl
   benzoic acid and 4-heptylamine. MS (M+H, 250.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.92 pM.
   Example 59
20 N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-(2-methoxyethoxy)-3-methylbenzamide
                                         0
                                           N2
                                           H
                                                        108
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Potassium hydroxide (4 mmol) was dissolved in ethanol (5 mL) and heated at 800C.
   4-hydroxy-3-methyl-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-benzamide (example 58) (Immol) was added into
   the solution followed by chloroethanol (3 mmol). The reaction was stirred overnight at
   800C. The reaction mixture was concentrated down and dissolved in 5% citric acid. he
 5 mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The aqueous mixture was extracted three times with ethyl
   acetate. The combined ethyl acetate was washed with water and dried down over sodium
   sulfate. The organic layer was concentrated down and purified by HPLC to yield 39% of
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-(2-methoxyethoxy)-3-methylbenzamide. MS (M+H, 308.25).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.21 pM.
   Example 60
   (R)-methyl 2-(3-fluoro-4-methoxybenzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                    0
                           Fe           ~H0
                         F            N
                                      H     C
                   00
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-fluoro-4-methoxybenzoic acid
15 and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 298).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.3 pM.
   Example 61
   3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(pentan-3-yl)benzamide
                                  0
20                 0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-pentylamine and 3-chloro-4
   methoxy benzoic acid. Yield 40%. MS (M+H, 256.20).
                                                    109
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.56 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 6.28.
   Example 62
 5 (R)-methyl 2-(3-chloro-4-methoxvbenzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                    0
                                           H
                                             0
                  CI                      NH
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-chloro-4-methoxy benzoic acid
   and D-leucine methyl ester hydrochloride. MS (M+H, 314.10).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.08 pM, and when present at 0.01 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 13.18.
   Example 63
   (R)-3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(1-phenylethyl)benzamide
                                     0
                                       NH
15              Prepare in a similar manner to example 4 using (R)-1-phenylethanamine and 3
   chloro-4-methoxy benzoic acid. MS (M+H, 290.0).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.5 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.7 .
20 Example 64
   4-Chloro-3-methyl-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-benzamide
                                                    110
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                    NH
                C I
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-chloro-3-methyl benzoic acid
   and heptan-4-amine. MS (M+H, 268).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.8 pM.
   Example 65
   3,4-Dimethoxy-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-benzamide
                                    0
                                      NH
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3,4dimethoxy benzoic acid and
10 heptan-4-amine. MS (M+H, 279.37).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.36 pM.
   Example 66
   (R)-methyl 2-(4-fluoro-3-methylbenzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                  0
                                         H
                                           0
                                      N
                                      H
15              F
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-fluoro-3-methylbenzoic acid and
   D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 282).
                                                    111
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.32 pM.
   Example 67
   4-methoxy-3,5-dimethyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                    0
                                         N
                      NN                H
 5
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3,5-dimethylbenzoic
   acid and 2-methylheptan-4-amine (example 2a). MS (M+H, 292.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.85 pM.
10 Example 68
   3,4-dimethyl-N-(2-methylhexan-3-yl)benzamide
                                      0
                                          H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3,4-dimethylbenzoic acid and
   hexan-3-amine (example 3a). IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 9H); 1.39 (m, 3H);
15 1.56 (m, 1H); 1.84 (m, 1H); 2.30 (s, 3H); 2.31 (s, 3H); 4.04 (m, 1H); 5.76 (d, 1H); 7.18 (d,
   1H); 7.46 (d, 1H); 7.55 (s, 1H); MS (248, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.11 pM.
   Example 69
20 3,4-dimethyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                                    112
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                    0~ N "
                                       H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3,4-dimethylbenzoic acid and 2
   methylheptan-4-amine (example 2a). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 9H); 1.40
   (m, 5H); 1.53 (m, 1H); 1.68 (m, 1H); 2.29 (s, 3H); 2.30 (s, 3H); 4.24 (m, 1H); 5.69 (d, 1H);
 5 7.17 (d, 1H); 7.46 (d, 1H); 7.54 (s, 1H). MS (262, M+H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.13 pM.
   Example 70
   3,4-dimethyl-N-(5-methylhexan-3-yl)benzamide
                                       H
10
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3,4-dimethylbenzoic acid and 5
   methylhexan-3-amine (example 5a). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94 (m, 9H); 1.38
   (m, 2H); 1.46 (m, 1H); 1.65 (m, 2H); 2.29 (s, 3H); 2.30 (s, 3H); 4.18 (m, 1H); 5.70 (d,
   1H); 7.17 (d, 1H); 7.46 (d, 1H); 7.55 (s, 1H). MS (248, M+H).
15              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.17 pM.
   Example 71
   (R)-N-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide
                                                    113
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                    0
                                      H
                To a solution of (R)-N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide
   (1.59 g, 6.39 mmol) (example 71a) in dry DMF (20 mL) was added powdered NaOH (281
   mg, 7 mmol) an the solution was stirred at 00C for 2 hrs. lodomethane (1 eq, 6.39 mmol)
 5 was added in DMF (10 ml) drop-wise over period of 1 hr. The temperature was kept at 00 C
   and the mixture was stirred for 1 hr. The reaction was quenched by adding 300 ml of
   water. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane, dried over MgSO4 and
   evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica-gel (toluene-ethyl
   acetate; 5-20% gradient) to give 1.23 g (R)-N-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4
10 dimethylbenzamide (73%). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94-0.97 (t, 6H), 1.41-1.47
   (M, 1H), 1.54-1.60 (m, 1H), 1.64-1.68 (m, 1H), 2.29 (d, 6H), 3.36 (s, 3H), 3.45-3.50 (m,
   2H), 4.34-4.39 (m, 1H), 6.23-6.25 (d, 1H), 7.16-7.17 (d, 1H), 7.47-7.49 (dd, 1H), 7.56 (s,
   1H). MS (M+H, 264.3)
                a.          (R)-N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide was
15 prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 using 3,4-dimethylbenzoic acid
   and with (R)-aminoleucinol . Yield: 75%. MS (M+H, 250.3).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.2 pM.
                                                       114
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

    Example 72
    (R)-N-(1-(methoxymethoxy)-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide
                                  0
                                     H
                 To a solution of (R)-N-(1-hydroxy-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide
  5 (Example 71a) (0.24 mmol) dissolved in dry DMF (2mL) was added at 00 C powdered
    NaOH (0.36 mmol, 14.5 mg, 1.5 eq) and the mixture was stirred for 1 hr at 00 C. Then
    chloro-methoxy-methane (19.3pl, 1 eq) was added and the reaction stirred at 00 C for 1
    hour. The reaction was quenched with water (30 mL) and the mixture was extracted with
    dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over MgSO4 and evaporated. The crude
10  product was purified by preparative TLC (20% ethyl acetate/hexanes) to give 37.7 mg of
    (R)-N-(1-(methoxymethoxy)-4-methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide            (53%). IH
    NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.98-1.00 (t, 6H), 1.49-1.53 (m, 1H), 1.58-1.64 (m, 1H), 1.69
    1.73 (m, 2H), 2.32-2.33 (d, 6H), 3.38-3.39 (t, 3H), 3.64-3.72 (ddd, 2H), 4.41-4.44 (m, 1H),
    4.65-4.69 (dd, 2H), 6.37-6.39 (d, 1H), 7.19-7.21 (d, 1H), 7.50-7.52 (dd, 1H), 7.60 (sb, 1H).
15  MS (M+H, 294.3).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.06 pM.
    Example 73
    N-(1-Methoxymethyl-2-methyl-propyl)-3,4-dimethyl-benzamide
                                  0N
20
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 71 using N-(1-hydroxy-3-methylbutan-2
    yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide (example 73a) and methyl iodide. Yield 87%. 'H NMR (500
    MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.97-1.00 (dt, 6H), 1.96-2.00 (m, 1H), 2.29 (s, 3H), 2.30 (s, 3H), 3.35 (s,
                                                     115
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

    3H), 3.42-3.45 (dd, 1H), 3.60-3.62 (dd,1H), 4.01-4.05 (m, 1H), 6.31-6.33 (d, 1H), 7.16
    7.18 (d, 1H), 7.48-7.50 (dd, 1H), 7.56-7.57 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 250).
                 a.          N-(1-hydroxy-3-methylbutan-2-yl)-3,4-dimethylbenzamide was prepared in
    a similar manner to example 71a using 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid and 2-amino-3
  5 methylbutan-1-ol. Yield 75%. MS (M+H, 236.2).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.87 pM.
    Example 74
    (R)-methyl 2-(2-methoxy-4-(methylthio)benzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                00
                                       H
10
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-methoxy-4-(methylthio)benzoic
    acid and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 326).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 15.8 pM.
15  Example 75
    N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)benzo[d] [1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                     0
                                        N
                                        H
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-(4-Methoxy-phenyl)-acrylic
    acid and 5-methylhexan-3-amine (example 5a). Yield: 59%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3):
20  6 0.93 (m, 9H); 1.33 (t, 2H); 1.43 (m, 1H); 1.58-1.67 (m, 2H); 3.83 (s, 3H); 4.11 (m, 1H);
    5.19 (d, 1H); 6.25 (d, 1H); 6.88 (d, 2H);7.44 (d, 2H); 7.58 (d, 1H). MS (276, M+H).
                                                        116
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.24 pM.
   Example 76
   N-(1-Ethyl-propyl)-3-[4-(2-hydroxy-ethoxy)-phenyll-acrylamide
                                        0
                HO        ON
                          0oc         Z
 5
                N-(1-Ethyl-propyl)-3-(4-hydroxy-phenyl)-acrylamide (example 76a) (0.44 mmol,
   103 mg) was dissolved in absolute ethanol with KOH (0.7 mmol, 37 mg). The mixture was
   stirred at 800 C for 1 hr. Then 2-chloro-ethanol (1.76 mmol, 118 pL) was added dropwise
   and the mixture was refluxed overnight. Following evaporation the crude product was
10 dissolved in dichloromethane and washed with water and 5% citric acid. The organic phase
   was evaporated and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel to give 73
   mg of desired product (60%). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.92-0.95 (t, 6H), 1.25 (s,
   1H),1.40-1.46 (m, 2H), 1.59-1.64 (m, 2H), 3.93-3.94 (m, 1H), 3.95-3.98 (m, 2H), 4.09
   4.11 (m, 2H), 5.28-5.30 (d, 1H), 6.26-6.29 (d, 1H), 6.88-6.90 (d, 2H), 7.43-7.45 (d, 2H),
15 7.56-7.59 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 278.1).
                a.          N-(1-Ethyl-propyl)-3-(4-hydroxy-phenyl)-acrylamide was prepared in a
   similar manner as described in example 4 from 4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid and 3
   pentylamine. MS (M+H, 234.10).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
20 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5.8 pM.
   Example 77
   (E)-N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-(thiophen-2-yl)acrylamide
                                    0
                                                        117
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from (E)-3-(thiophen-2
   yl)acrylic acid and 4-hepthylamine. MS (M+H, 252).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.44 pM.
 5 Example 78
   (R,E)-methyl 4-methyl-2-oct-2-enamidopentanoate
                                       0
                                         N
                                         H 0
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from (E)-oct-2-enoic acid
   and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 270).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.92 pM.
   Example 79
   3-(4-Methoxy-phenyl)-N-(3-methyl-1-propyl-butyl)-acrylamide
                                    0
                                       N
                        N0            H
15              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-acrylic acid
   and 3-methyl-1-propyl-butylamine (example 2a). Yield: 65%. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.90-0.95 (m, 9H), 1.30-1.39 (m, 5H), 1.49-1.50 (m, 1H), 1.64-1.67 (m, 1H),
   3.82 (s, 3H), 4.17-4.18 (m, 1H), 5.18-5.20 (d, 1H), 6.22-6.26 (d, 1H), 6.86-6.89 (d, 2H),
   7.42-7.45 (d, 2H), 7.56-7.59 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 290.1).
20              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.84 pM.
                                                    118
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 80
    N-(1-Methoxymethyl-3-methyl-butyl)-3-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-acrylamide
                                    0   _
                        N0            H
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 71 from 3-(4-methoxy
 5 phenyl)-acrylic acid and D-leucinol. Yield: 41%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 60.93-0.96
   (t, 6H), 1.38-1.42 (m, 1H), 1.48-1.54 (m, 1H), 1.63-1.66 (m, 1H), 3.36 (s, 3H), 3.41-3.46
   (m, 2H), 3.82-3.83 (s, 3H), 4.29-4.31 (m, 1H), 5.69-5.71 (d, 1H), 6.24-6.27 (d, 1H), 6.87
   6.89 (d, 2H), 7.43 (s, 1H), 7.44 (s, 1H), 7.56-7.59 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 292.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.90 pM.
   Example 81
   N-(1-Benzyl-2-hydroxy-ethyl)-3-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-acrylamide
                                    o   _~
                  0                   H
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-(4-methoxy
15 phenyl)-acrylic acid and D-phenylalaninol. MS (M+H, 312.3).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.1 pM.
   Example 82
   3-(4-Ethoxy-phenyl)-N-(1-ethyl-propyl)-acrylamide
                                      0
                                        N
                                        H
20              -o
                                                    119
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-(4-ethoxy-phenyl)-acrylic acid
   and 3-pentylamine.MS (M+H, 262.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.35 pM.
 5 Example 83
   4-Methyl-2-(3-t hiophen-2-yl-acryloylamino)-pentanoic acid methyl ester
                                    0    _
                       S,              N "
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-thiophen-2-yl
   acrylic acid and D-leucine methyl ester. MS (M+H, 282.2).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.59 pM.
   Example 84
   4-Methyl-pent-2-enoic acid (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphthalen-1-yl)-amide
                                 0
                                      N
                                      H
15              Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 4-methyl-pent-2-enoic
   acid and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphthalen-1-ylamine. MS (M+H, 244.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.5 pM.
   Example 85
20 3-(2-Fluoro-phenyl)-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-acrylamide
                                                    120
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                   F                0
                      6--              H
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-(2-fluoro-phenyl)
   acrylic acid and 4-heptylamine. MS (M+H, 264.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.16 pM.
   Example 86
   3-(2-Methoxy-phenyl)-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-acrylamide
                  o                o
                    0~
                                    0 N
                                      H
                      b-,
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-(2-methoxy
10 phenyl)-acrylic acid and 4-heptylamine. MS (M+H, 276.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.90 pM.
   Example 87
   3-(3,4-Dimethoxy-phenyl)-N-(1-propyl-butyl)-acrylamide
                                         0
                    1
                                           H
                           0::c
15
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-(3,4-dimethoxy
   phenyl)-acrylic acid and 4-heptylamine. MS (M+H, 306.2).
                                                    121
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.97 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 2.4.
   Example 89
 5 3-(2-Methoxy-phenyl)-N-(2-methyl-cyclohexyl)-acrylamide
                   O                O
                        -~             N
                                       H
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-(2-methoxy
   phenyl)-acrylic acid and 2-methyl-cyclohexylamine. MS (M+H, 274.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.4 pM
   Example 90
   N-(heptan-4-yl)benzofuran-5-carboxamide
                                     H
                      <Oe
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzofuran-5-carboxylic acid and
15 heptan-4-amine. Yield 41%. MS (M+H, 260.2 ).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.19 pM.
   Example 91
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-5,6-dimethylpicolinamide
                                                    122
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                     0
                                       N2
                                       H
                           ) N
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5,6-Dimethylpicolinic acid
    (Example 91a) and 4-heptylamine. Yield: 49%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91-0.94
    (t, 6H), 1.38-1.48 (m, 4H), 1.49-1.61 (m, 4H), 2.32 (s, 3H), 2.52 (s, 3H), 4.11-4.13 (m,
  5 1H), 7.52-7.53 (d,1H), 7.93-7.94 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 249.1).
                 a.          5,6-Dimethylpicolinic acid: 5,6-dimethylpicolinonitrile (example 91b) was
    refluxed in concentrated HCl (15 mL) overnight. The solvent was evaporated and the solid
    residue was co-evaporated several times with EtOH. Drying provided 453 mg of 5,6
    Dimethylpicolinic acid (80%) as a white solid. MS (M+H, 152.1).
10               b.            5,6-dimethylpicolinonitrile: 2,3-lutidine (13.25 mmol) was refluxed
    overnight with 18 ml of glacial AcOH and 6 ml of hydrogen peroxide. The solvent was
    evaporated and the residue was co-evaporated two times with water, basified with Na2CO3
    and extracted with chloroform. The organic layer was dried over Na2SO4 and evaporated to
    give 1.45 g of a crystalline product. The product (615 mg, 5 mmol) was reacted with
15  trimethylsilane carbonitrile (5.5 mmol) in dichloromethane (10 mL) at room temperature
    for 5 min followed by addition of dimethylcarbamoyl chloride (5 mmol) and the solution
    was stirred at room temperature for 3 days. The reaction mixture was treated with 10%
    potassium carbonate (10 mL), the organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was
    extracted 2 times with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over Na2SO4 and
20  evaporated to give 495 mg of 5,6-dimethylpicolinonitrile (75%). 'H NMR (500 MHz,
    CDCl3): 6 2.35 (s, 3H), 2.53 (s, 3H), 7.43-7.45 (d, 1H), 7.51-7.52 (d, 1H);          13
                                                                                           C: 6 19.71,
    22.80, 117.87, 126.36, 130.60, 136.58, 137.66, 159.84). MS (M+H, 133.1).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.8 pM.
25
                                                            123
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 92
   4-(diethylamino)-N-(heptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                      0N
                                        H
                        N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-diethylamino benzoic acid and
 5 4-heptylamine. (31 % %). 1H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.92(t, 6H, J = 7.17 Hz), 1.18 (t,
   6H, J= 7.04 Hz), 1.41(m, 4H), 1.55( m, 4H), 3.39 (m, 4H), 4.15 (m, 1H), 5.62 (m, 1H),
   6.64 (d, 2H, J= 10.26Hz ), 7.64 (d, 2H, J= 10.26 Hz). MS (M+H, 291).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 7.6 pM.
10 Example 93
   (R)-methyl 2-(2,6-dimethoxvisonicotinamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                 0
                                         H
                      O             NO     0"
                                    H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2,6-Dimethoxy-isonicotinic acid
   and D-leucine methyl ester. IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.92 (d, 3H, J=7.27 Hz), 0.93
15 (d, 3H, J= 7.26 Hz), 1.41-1.58 (m, 8H), 3.95 (s, 3H), 4.08 (s, 3H), 4.15 (m, 1H), 6.43 (d,
   1H, J= 8.32 Hz), 7.47 (m, broad, 1H), 8.41 (d, 1H, J= 8.34 Hz). MS (M+H; 311).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.91 pM.
                                                    124
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 94
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-6-methoxynicotinamide
                                      0
                          ON
                               --
                               N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using sodium 6-methoxynicotinate
 5 (example 94a) and 4-hepthylamine. Yield: 44%. MS (M+H, 251).
                a.          methyl 6-methoxynicotinate ( 2.097g, 12.56mmol) was dissolved in
   dioxane (30mL). An aqueous solution of NaOH (1.0N, 25mL) was added to the solution
   and the mixture was stiffed at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed
   under reduced pressure to provide 2.2 g of sodium 6-methoxynicotinate.
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.66 pM.
   Example 95
   5,6-dimethylpyrazine-2-carboxylic acid (1-propylbutyl)amide
                                    0
                          N
                                        N
                          C N
15              Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5,6-dimethyl-pyrazine-2
   carboxylic acid (example 95a) and 4-heptylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91
   0.94 (t, 6H), 1.35-1.42 (m, 4H), 1.48-1.51 (m, 2H), 1.55-1.60 (m, 2H), 2.57-2.60 (d, 6H),
   4.13-4.16 (m, 1H), 7.52-7.53 (d, 1H), 9.09 (s, 1H); MS (M+H, 250).
                a.          5,6-dimethyl-pyrazine-2-carboxylic acid: To a solution of 2,3
20 diaminopropionic acid (1.0 g, 9.6 mmol) in methanol (20 mL) was added butane-2,3-dione
   (728 pL; 11.5 mmol) and NaOH (1.4 g; 56.6 mmol). The mixture was refluxed for 2 h and
   then cooled to room temperature while air was bubbled through for 1 hour. The white
                                                        125
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   precipitate was filtered and the gelatinous product was concentrated under vacuum. The
   crude product was taken up in dichloromethane, washed with 10% citric acid, dried over
   MgSO4 and filtered. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 5,6
   dimethyl-pyrazine-2-carboxylic acid as a volatile solid. The compound was used as is in
 5 the next step.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.01 pM.
   Example 96
   2-chloro-N-(heptan-4-yl)-6-methylnicotinamide
                                0
                                    H
10                      N       CI
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-chloro-6-methylnicotinic acid
   and 4-Heptylamine. MS (M+H, 269).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.9 pM.
15 Example 97
   2-cyano-N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-methoxybenzamide
                            CN       0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-cyano-4-methoxybenzoic
   acidand 4-Heptylamine. Yield: 73%. 'H NMR (CD30D): 6 110.94 (t, 6H, J = 7.3 Hz),
20 1.38 (m, 4H), 1.53 (m, 4H), 4.02 (s, 3H),4.12 (m, 1H), 7.27 (d, 1H, J= 9.40 Hz), 8.11 (d,
   2H, J= 2.21 Hz). MS (M+H, 275).
                                                    126
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.39 ptM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 4.52.
   Example 98
 5 (R)-methyl 2-(2,3-dimethvlfuran-5-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                   0
                                       H
                                         0
                                     N
                             0       H 0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4,5-dimethyl-furan-2-carboxylic
   acid and D-leucine methyl ester. Yield: 27 %. IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.96 (t, 6H),
   1.66 (m, 3H), 1.96 (s, 3H), 2.26 (s, 3H), 3.75 (s, 3H), 4.78 (m, 1H), 6.51 (d, 1H), 6.89 (s,
10 1H). MS (M+H, 268).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.59 pM.
   Example 99
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-5-carboxamide
                            0
                                N
                N       /H
15
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-5
   carboxylic acid and 4-heptylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.90 (t, 6H, J = 7.2
   Hz), 1.41 (m, 4H), 1.50 (m, 4H), 2.27 (s, 3H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 4.09 (m, 1H), 6.49 (d, 1H),
   6.53 (s, 1H). MS (M+H, 238).
20              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 7.8 pM.
                                                    127
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 100
   N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-methylthiazole-4-carboxamide
                                    0
                         Nj
                                      N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1,3-dimethyl-1H-pyrazole-5
 5 carboxylic acid and 4-heptylamine. MS (M+H, 241).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 7.2 pM.
   Example 101
   N-(heptan-4-yl)iuinoline-6-carboxamide
                                        H
10
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using quinoline-6-carboxylic acid and 4
   hepthylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3) 6 0.96 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 6H), 1.42-1.58 (m, 6H),
   1.62-1.70 (m, 2H), 4.18-4.20 (m, 1H), 5.95 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (br s, 1H), 8.04 (dd, J
   = 8.5, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.17 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 8.27 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 8.99 (br
15 s, 1H); MS (M+H, 271.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.2 pM.
   Example 102
   N-(heptan-4-yl)iuinoline-3-carboxamide
                                                    128
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                    0
                                        C
                                      H
                               N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using quinoline-3-carboxylic acid and
   hepthylamine: 1H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3) 6 0.96 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 6H), 1.40-1.58 (m, 6H),
   1.60-1.67 (m, 2H), 4.20-4.30 (m, 1H), 6.01 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (t, J= 7.5, 1H), 7.80
 5 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.90 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 8.15 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 8.57 (d, J= 1.2 Hz,
   1H), 9.26 (br s, 1H); MS (M+H, 271.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 15.8 pM.
   Example 103
10 N-(heptan-4-yl)isoquinoline-1-carboxamide
                                    N
                                    H
                              N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using isoquinoline-1-carboxylic acid and
   heptamine:            1H   NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3) 6 0.98 (t, J= 7.05 Hz, 6H), 1.42-1.56 (m, 6H),
   1.58-1.66 (m, 2H), 4.20-4.32 (m, 1H), 5.83 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.36 (d, J= 4.2, 1H), 7.60
15 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 8.11 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 8.18 (d, J= 8.4 Hz,
   1H), 8.88 (d, J= 4.9, 1H); MS(APCI, M+): 271.2.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 14.2 pM.
   Example 104
20 4-Methoxy-N-(1-methoxymethyl-3-methyl-butyl)-3-methyl-benzamide
                                                     129
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                    0    _
                                   SH
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 71 from 4-methoxy-3
   methyl-benzoic acid and D-leucinol. Yield: 86%. IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.94
   0.97 (t, 6H), 1.42-1.47 (m, 1H), 1.54-1.60 (m, 1H), 1.64-1.68 (m, 2H), 2.24 (s, 3H), 3.37
 5 (s, 3H), 3.46-3.48 (m, 2H), 3.87 (s, 3H), 4.35-4.38 (m, 1H), 6.14-6.16 (d, 1H), 6.82-6.84
   (d, 1H), 7.56 (d, 1H), 7.61-7.63 (dd, 1H). MS (M+H, 280.3).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.24 pM.
   Example 105
10 N-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyl)thiophene-2-carboxamide
                          0
                               N     ~        F
                                                F
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from thiophene-2
   carboxylic acid and (4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenyl)methanamine. MS (M+H, 303).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
15 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.4 pM.
   Example 106
   N-(2-(furan-2-vlmethylthio)ethyl)-4-methoxy-3-methylbenzamide
                                       0
                          ON         -H
                                           -\-S
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 4-methoxy-3
20 methylbenzoic acid and 2-(furan-2-ylmethylthio)ethanamine. Yield 58%. 'H NMR (500
   MHz, CDCl3) 2.23 (s, 3H), 2.76 (t, 2H, J = 6.37 Hz), 3.59 (q, 2H, J = 12.2 Hz), 3.76 (s,
                                                    130
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 6.22 (dd, 1H, J = 3.49 Hz, J = 2.67 Hz), 6.30 (dd, 1H, J = 3.04 Hz, J =
   1.78 Hz), 6.46 (m, 1H, broad), 6.83 (d, 1H, J= 8.51 Hz), 7.34(dd, 1H, J= 1.97 Hz, J= 1
   Hz), 7.56 (d, 1H, J= 1.72 Hz), 7.61(dd, 1H, J= 8.53 Hz, J=2.25 Hz). MS (M+H, 306).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5.6 pM.
   Example 107
   Thiophene-3-carboxylic acid 4-trifluoromethoxy-benzylamide
                            0
                   S                       F
                                          F
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using thiophene-3-carboxylic acid and
10 4-trifluoromethoxy-benzylamine. MS (M+H, 302.0).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.2 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 8.5.
   Example 108
15 3-Methyl-thiophene-2-carboxylic acid 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamide
                           oo
                                    N
                        S
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 3-methyl-thiophene-2-carboxylic
   acid and 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamine. MS (M+H, 292.2).
                The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
20 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5.6 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 5.8.
                                                    131
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 109
   5-Pyridin-2-yl-thiophene-2-carboxylic acid 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamide
                                    0    CI
                    -
                           No         N     o
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 5-pyridin-2-yl-thiophene-2
 5 carboxylic acid and 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamine. MS (M+H, 355.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.86 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 8.
   Example 110
10 2-Methyl-2H-pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamide
                            0          0
                   N
                         N       H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 2-methyl-2H-pyrazole-3
   carboxylic acidand 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamine. MS (M+H, 276.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
15 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6 pM, and when present at 3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 7.9.
                                                    132
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 111
   4-Hydroxy-3-methyl-N-(1-methyl-3-phenyl-propyl)-benzamide
                                    0
                                    SN
                HOH
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-hydroxy-3-methyl-benzoic acid
 5 and 1-methyl-3-phenyl-propylamine. MS (M+H, 284.2)
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.7 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 7.
   Example 112
10 Benzo[1,31dioxole-5-carboxylic        acid [2-(4-ethyl-phenyl)-ethyll-amide
                                    0
                      K017            H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid and 2-(4-ethyl-phenyl)-ethylamine. MS (M+H, 298.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
15 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.86 pM.
   Example 113
   4-Methoxy-3-methyl-N-(1-phenyl-butyl)-benzamide
                                                    133
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                     0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methyl-benzoic acid
   and 1-phenyl-butylamine. MS (M+H, 298.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hT1R1/hT1R3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.5 pM.
   Example 114
   4-Methoxy-3-methyl-N-(1-pyridin-2-yl-butyl)-benzamide
                                    0 N
                     N    0 ~          H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methyl-benzoic acid
10 and 1-pyridin-2-yl-butylamine. IH NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.91-0.92 (t, 3H), 1.25-1.3
   (m, 2H, 1.85-1.9 (m, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 5.25-5.3 (m, 1H), 6.80-6.82 (d, 1H), 7.2-7.3 (m,
   2H), 7.42-7.44 (d, 1H), 7.6-7.7 (m, 3H), 8.6 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 299.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hT1R1/hT1R3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.54 pM.
15              Example 115
   Benzo[1,31dioxole-5-carboxylic        acid [1-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-butyll-amide
                                                    134
   10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

                                      0'~l
                 0              0 Nq
                                    H
                     <Oe
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
   acid and 1-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-butylamine 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93-0.95 (t,
   3H), 1.30-1.39 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.90 (m, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 5.08-5.09 (dd, 1H), 6.00 (s, 2H),
 5 6.10-6.12 (d, 1H), 6.79-6.80 (d, 1H), 6.87(s, 1H), 6,88 (s, 1H), 7.25-7.28 (m, 4H). MS
   (M+H, 328.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.12 pM.
   Example 116
10 4-Ethoxy-N-[1-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-butyll-3-methyl-benzamide
                                            0rI,
                                          N
                                          H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-ethoxy-3-methyl-benzoic acid
   and 1-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-butylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.93-0.96 (t, 3H),
   1.31-1.41 (m, 2H), 1.41-1.45 (t, 3H), 1.82-1.92 (m, 2H), 2.28 (s, 3H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 4.04
15 4.08 (q, 2H), 5.10-5.12 (d, 1H), 6.12-6.14 (d, 1H), 6.78-6.80 (d, 1H), 6.87 (s, 1H), 6.88 (s,
   1H), 7.26-7.29 (m, 2H), 7.52-7.53 (d, 1H), 7.57-7.59 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 342.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.9 pM.
   Example 117
20 4-Methoxy-N-[1-(R)-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-ethyll-3-methyl-benzamide
                                                    135
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                       0~
                                  0
                                    N     CH3
                                    H
                  0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 4-methoxy-3-methyl-benzoic acid
   and 1-(R)-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-ethylamine. MS (M+H, 300.1).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.8 pM.
   Example 118
   Benzo[1,31dioxole-5-carboxylic             acid indan-1-ylamide
                                    0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carboxylic
10 acid and indan-1-ylamine. MS (M+H, 282.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.2 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 5.33.
   Example 119
15 4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(pentan-3-yl)benzamide
                                     0
                         o      -      H
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 4-methoxy-3
   methylbenzoic acid and pentan-3-amine. MS (M+H, 236)
                                                        136
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.4 pM.
   Example 120
   3-methyl-N-(p-tolylethyl)furan-2-carboxamide
                    O           0
                                    H
 5
                Prepared in a similar manner as described in example 4 from 3-methylfuran-2
   carboxylic acid and 2-p-tolylethanamine. MS (M+H, 244).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6 pM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
10 effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 3.3.
   Example 121
   N-(2,4-dimethoxybenzyl)-2-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)benzamide
                   N         0        O
                                 H
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 4 using 1-(2-(lH-pyrrol-1
15 yl)phenyl)ethanone and 2,4-dimethoxy-benzylamine. MS (M+H, 337.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.66 pM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 11 .
                Additional "amide" compounds that were synthesized and experimentally tested
20 and found to have a relatively high level of effectiveness as an activator of a hTlR1/hTlR3
   umami receptor expressed in an HEK293 cell line. The results of that testing are shown
   below in Table A.
                                                    137
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                         Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                                  EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                         o o
                                               H
      Al                                                               0.22      2.74            1
                              3,6-Dichloro-N-(4-ethoxy-phenyl)-2
                             methoxy-benzamide
                                         o o     ~      .            o
                             CI
                                               N
                                               H
      A2                                                               0.93      6.98            0.01
                                            CI
                             4-(3,6-Dichloro-2-methoxy
                             benzoylamino)-benzoic acid methyl
                             ester
                             CI
      A3                 c                                             1.08      6.14            0.03
                                      CI
                             2,5-dichloro-N-(4
                             ethoxyphenyl)benzamide
                                                      o00
                                                     NHI-ll'-.. IillH
      A4                                   s         o                 0.4
                             2-[(Benzo[b]thiophene-2-carbonyl)
                             amino] -4-methyl-pentanoic acid
                             methyl ester
                                                                 138
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                           Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                                    EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                              00
      A5                                              HillI..    ' 11-
                                                               ...       0.31
                                          0         0
                             2-[(Benzofuran-2-carbonyl)-amino]-4
                             methyl-pentanoic acid methyl ester
                                      0                 0
                                                       HN              H
      A6                                                 O           O   0.32      2.86
                             2-[(5-Methoxy-benzofuran-2
                             carbonyl)-amino]-4-methyl-pentanoic
                             acid methyl ester
      A7                                                                 0.46
                             (R)-5-methoxy-N-(1-methoxy-4
                             methylpentan-2-yl)benzofuran-2
                             carboxamide
                                                    HN
      A8                                                                 0.5
                                                0    0
                             5-methyl-N-(5-methylhexan-3-yl)
                             benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                                                  139
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                         H
                                               0
      A9                                                           0.71
                             2-[(Benzofuran-5-carbonyl)-amino]-4
                             methyl-pentanoic acid methyl ester(R)
                             methyl 2-(benzofuran-5-carboxamido)
                             4-methylpentanoate
      AlO                                                          0.91      4.51            1
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-5-methoxybenzofuran
                             2-carboxamide
                             CI                     HN
      All                    ci                                    1.05      6.5             0.3
                                                 0
                             5-chloro-N-(1-methoxybutan-2
                             yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
      A12                                                          1.13
                             5-methoxy-N-(2-methylhexan-3
                             yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                                            140
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                       Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                                EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                 0                           HN
      A13                                                            1.14      4.46            1
                             5-methoxy-N-(pentan-3-yl)benzofuran
                             2-carboxamide
                                                     0           g__
                                             0      HN
                                                               0
      A14                    2-[(5-Methoxy-benzofuran-2-             1.14
                             carbonyl)-amino]-4-methylsulfanyl
                             butyric acid methyl ester methyl 2-(5
                             methoxybenzofuran-2-carboxamido)-4
                             (methylthio)butanoate
                                                           0
                                                        H
                                           0      HN
      A15                                                            1.14
                             (1R,2R)-ethyl 2-(5
                             methoxybenzofuran-2
                             carboxamido)cyclohexanecarboxylate
      A16                                                            1.18
                                                    0    0
                             5-methoxy-N-(2-methylpentan-3
                             yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                                               141
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
      A17                                                          1.2
                                            -  0         0
                             N-(2,4-dimethylpentan-3 -yl)-5
                             methoxybenzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                                      HN
      A18                                                          1.27
                             5-methoxy-N-(2-methylheptan-4
                             yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                -0                    HN         /
      A19                                                       0  1.3
                             5-methoxy-N-(1-methoxypentan-2
                             yl)benzofuran-2-carboxamide
      A20                                                          1.32
                             5-methyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4-yl)
                             benzofuran-2-carboxamide
                                                    NHN
      A21                                                          1.52      3.74            1
                                           0          o
                             N-(pentan-3 -yl)benzofuran-2
                             carboxamide
                                                            142
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                    Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                 N
                                                   H
                                                   N
                                 S:
      A22                                                         1.58
                             Benzothiazole-6-carboxylic acid (1
                             propyl-butyl)-amide
                                    0
                                                        H
                                         N              N
      A23                                                         0.38
                                                   0
                             2-methyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4
                             yl)benzo[d]oxazole-5-carboxamide
                                     0
                                              ___   HN
      A24                                                         1.12
                                                     I
                             2-methyl-N-(2-methylheptan-4
                             yl)benzo[d]oxazole-6-carboxamide
                                     0
                                              __    HN
      A25                                                       0 1.48
                                                     0    0
                             (R)-4-Methyl-2-[(2-methyl
                             benzooxazole-6-carbonyl)-amino]
                             pentanoic acid methyl ester
                                                            143
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                    Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                     0
                                           O __      HN
      A26                        N                                1.6
                             2-methyl-N-(2-methylhexan-3
                             yl)benzo[d]oxazole-6-carboxamide
                                        0
                                                       HN-<16
      A27                            N1.61
                             2-ethyl-N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo[d]
                             oxazole-6-carboxamide
                                                      HN
      A28                           N                             1.69
                                                      o    o
                             (R)- 4-Methyl-2-[(2-methyl
                             benzooxazole-5-carbonyl)-amino]
                             pentanoic acid methyl ester
                                 r       -        HN
      A29                    N1
                                                    0
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)benzo[d]
                             oxazole-6-carboxamide
                                                              144
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                   Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                            EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
      A30                                /                       0.49      12.6            1
                                                   0
                             5-bromo-N-(heptan-4-yl)furan-2
                             carboxamide
                                      /0
                                                  H
                                                  N
      A31                                                        0.62      10.04           1
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-4,5-dimethylfuran-2
                             carboxamide
                                               H
                                               N
      A32                                                        1.15
                                           0
                             N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)-3
                             methylfuran-2-carboxamide
                                      o          HN
      A33                              /                         1.33
                                                  0
                             4,5-dimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)
                             furan-2-carboxamide
                                                             145
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                           Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                                    EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                       0            0
                                                    HNlliiII- -1 lillH
      A34                                                                0.53
                                          N          0
                                          H
                             (R)-methyl 2-(1H-indole-2
                             carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                                   H
                                 N     I           N
                                 H
      A35                                                                0.82      8.81
                                               0
                             N-(heptan-4-y)-1H-indoe-6
                             carboxamide
                                 H
                                 N                         0
                                                   H
                                                   N              0
      A36                                     0                          1.01
                             (R)-methyl 2-(mH-indole-5
                             carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                   N
                                                     H
                                                     N                 /
                                                 0
      A3 7                                                               1.5
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(quinoline-6
                             carboxamido)pentanoate
                                                                146
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                     S
                                             0
      A38                                                          1.22      6.54            1
                             5-Methyl-thiophene-2-carboxylic acid
                             (1 -propyl-butyl)-amide
                                                   HN
      A39                                                  /       1.31      2.3             1
                             5-Methyl-thiophene-2-carboxylic acid
                             (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphthalen-1-yl)
                             amide
                                                  0
                                                              H
      A40                                             N
                                                      H          o
                                                                   0.37
                                                          0
                             (R)-methyl 2-(2-naphthamido)-4
                             methylpentanoate
                                   <7              H
      A41                                                          0.7       2.14            3
                                               0
                             N-(nonan-5-yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5
                             carboxamide
                                                              147
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                      Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                               EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                 0                      0         7
                                                      H           O
                                                  0
      A42                                                           0.35
                             (2R,3R)-methyl 2
                             (benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamido)
                             3-methylpentanoate
                                                    H           O
                                                    N
                                                            H
                                                0
      A43                                                           0.49
                             2-[(Benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl)
                             amino]-hexanoic acid methyl ester
                                                     H            /
                               (o
                                  o"     )           N        H
                                                              H
                                                 0
      A44                                                           0.61
                             (R)-2-[(Benzo[1,3]dioxole-5
                             carbonyl)-amino]-hexanoic acid methyl
                             ester
                                                      HO0
                                                     H0
                                                     N
                                                              H
      A45                                        0                  0.88
                             (R)-ethyl 2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5
                             carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                                             148
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                      Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                               EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                 0H                               O
                                                        N
                                                             H
      A46                                          0                1.32
                             (R)-methyl 2-(2,3-dihydrobenzofuran
                             5-carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                                      0
                                                     HN
                                  0
      A47                                                           1.33      6.42            0.1
                             (S)-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
                             yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
      A48                                                           1.51      9.27            1
                             N-(4-phenylbutan-2-yl)benzo[d]
                             [1,3]dioxole-5-carboxamide
                               /0
      A49                                            HN        0\   1.54      9.53            1
                                                 0
                             2-[(Benzo[1,3]dioxole-5-carbonyl)
                             amino]-pentanoic acid methyl ester
                                                             149
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                    Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                 0
      A50                                                         1.57
                                 0:u              N       0
                                                  H
                             N-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-yl)-2
                             propylpentanamide
                                 o
                                   KJI?H
                                                     0
                                                           0
      A51                                     0                   1.58
                             (R)-propyl 2-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5
                             carboxamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                 07H
      A52                                                         1.65
                                                0
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-2,3
                             dihydrobenzofuran-5-carboxamide
                               <7
                                                    H
      A53                        0                                1.83
                             N-(hexan-3-yl)benzo[d][1,3]
                             dioxole-5-carboxamide
                                                             150
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                    Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                      S/ \          HN
      A54                                                         0.12
                                          -          0
                             N-(hexan-3-yl)-3-methyl-4
                             (methylthio)benzamide
                                                   -0
                                                            0
                                  \o/\           HN
      A55                                                         0.12
                                                  0
                                   CI
                             methyl 2-(3-chloro-4
                             methoxybenzamido)hexanoate
                                                  H
                                                  N
      A56                                                         0.14
                                             0
                             N-(hexan-3-yl)-3,4-imethylbenzamide
                                                      -0
                                                                0
                                        /\          HN
      A57                                                         0.18
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4
                             vinylbenzamido)pentanoate
                                                            151
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                    Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                      H 'N
      A58                                _P                       0.2
                                                        0
                             4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(2
                             methylpentan-3-yl)benzamide
                             \o/\                  HN
      A59                                                         0.2
                                                     0
                             4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(2
                             methylhexan-3 -yl)benzamide
                                                         -0
                                                                0
                                                      HN
      A60                                                         0.2
                             (R)-methyl 2-(4
                             (ethylthio)benzamido)-4
                             methylpentanoate
                                   \o/\HNe
      A61                                                         0.22
                                                     0
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-methoxy-3
                             methylbenzamide
                                                            152
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                    H
                                                    N
      A62                                      11                  0.25
                                               0
                             (R)-methyl 2-(3,4
                             dimethylbenzamido)-3
                             methylbutanoate
                                                     -0
                                                                 0
                                   \o/\-H
      A63                                                          0.25
                                                    0
                             (R)-methyl 2-(4-methoxy-3
                             methylbenzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                                          HN
      A64                                                          0.26
                                                           0
                             4-ethoxy-3-methyl-N-(pentan-3
                             yl)benzamide
                             S
                                                    H
                                                    N
      A65                                                          0.29
                                               0
                             (R)-N-(1-methoxy-4-methylpentan-2
                             yl)-3-methyl-4-(methylthio)benzamide
                                                             153
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                        Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                                 EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                                    0
                             N
                                               H
                                               N
      A66
                                                                      0.29
                                                            0
                                 N
                                           0
                             N-(2,4-dimethoxybenzyl)-3-(lH
                             pyrrol- 1-yl)isonicotinamide
                                                        -0
                                                                  0
                                                     \ /HN
      A67                                                             0.29      10.75           1
                                                       0
                                    CI
                             methyl 2-(3-chloro-4
                             methoxybenzamido)pentanoate
                                                        HN
      A68                                                             0.32      2.62            0.3
                                         0
                                                         H0
                             4-ethoxy-N-(heptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                                      -- 0
      A69                                                             0.32
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4
                             methylbenzamido)pentanoate
                                                              154
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                   Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                            EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                F                   H
                                    F
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-3
                             (trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                                    HN
      A71                                                        0.34
                             4-ethyl-N-(heptan-4-yl)benzamide
                                                     HN
      A72                                  ___                   0.34
                             4-ethoxy-3-methyl-N-(5-methylhexan
                             3-yl)benzamide
                                                             0
                                                  I   H
                                                      H
                                                      N
      A73                                         0              0.34
                             (R)-methyl 2-(3-methoxy-4
                             methylbenzamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                                            155
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                  Umami     EC5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                     Compound                          EC5O (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                              \/\
                                                     HN
      A74                                                       0.35      4.98            0.3
                                     F
                              3-fluoro-N-(heptan-4-yl)-4
                              methoxybenzamide
                                       sN
                                                     H
      A75                                                       0.39
                              N-(heptan-4-yl)-4
                              (methylthio)benzamide
                              0
                                                H
      A76                                       N0.4
                                           0
                              4-methoxy-3-methyl-N-(4
                              phenylbutan-2-yl)benzamide
                                                      0
                                                         NH
      A77                          0                            0.44
                                            CI
                              3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(2
                              methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                            156
10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

       Table A - Umami Amides
       Compound                                                   Umami     EC5o ratio (vs. @
       No.                     Compound                           EC5O (uM) MSG)            (uM)
       A78                                                        0.46      10.22           0.3
                               c
                                           K         N
                              N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-vinylbenzamide
                                                  0
                                                     H
       A79                                                        0.46
                              -7 p
                              N-(heptan-4-yl)-4-methoxybenzamide
                                                    H
       A80                        c                 N             0.47      5.12            0.1
                                                0
                               3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(pentan-2
                                                     N
                               yl)benzamide
                                                 0    )
                                                      H
       A81                                                        0.5
                              N-(hexan-3-yl)-4-methyl-3
                               (methylthio)benzamide
                                                              157
10392499_1 (GHMatter) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                         H
                                                         N
                                                                 0
                                                     0
      A82                                                          0.51
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4
                             propoxybenzamido)pentanoate
                                                    H
                                                    N
      A83                                                          0.52
                                               0
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                                      H
                                                      N
                                 0
      A84                               OH       0                 0.53
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-hydroxy-3
                             methoxybenzamide
                                                      -0
                                                               0
                                                 HN
      A85                          -0                              0.53
                             (R)-methyl 2-(3,5
                             dimethylbenzamido)-4
                             methylpentanoate
                                                           158
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                           Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                     Compound                                   EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                          --    0
                                      \/\               HN           S
                                         ----
                                                         0
      A86                                                                0.53
                             methyl 2-(4-methoxy-3
                             methylbenzamido)-4
                             (methylthio)butanoate
                                                             0
                                                           HN
                                 -O                OH__
      A87                                                                0.54      3.8
                             2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 S  \         \                HN
      A88                                    _0.55
                                                                0
                             N-(2,4-dimethylpentan-3 -yl)-3 -methyl
                             4-(methylthio)benzamide
                              0
                                                                      01
                                                     H
                                                     N
      A89                    ci                                          0.6       2.85
                             (R)-3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(1 -(4
                             methoxyphenyl)ethyl)benzamide
                                                                  159
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                     Compound                             EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                     H
                                                     N
      A90                                                          0.61
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-methoxybenzamide
                                                        -0
                                                                 0
                                             /\
                                                      HN
      A91                                                          0.62
                                                       0
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(4
                             propylbenzamido)pentanoate
                                                      HN
      A92                                                          0.65
                                           ----        0
                             4-ethoxy-3-methyl-N-(2-methylheptan
                             4-yl)benzamide
                                                    /
                                                   HN
                                 -O           OH__
      A93                                                          0.7       5.7             1
                             (S)-2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                             160
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                   Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                            EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                  H
                                                  N11
      A94                                                        0.72
                                              0
                             (R)-4-methoxy-N-(2-methoxy- 1
                             phenylethyl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                                        -o     0
                                                               0
                                      /\
                                                    HNW
      A95                                             0          0.74
                             (R)-methyl 2-(4-methoxy-3,5
                             dimethylbenzamido)-4
                             methylpentanoate
                                  7-7
                                               H
                                               N
      A96                                  0                     0.76
                             4-methoxy-N-(1-(4
                             methoxyphenyl)propyl)-3
                             methylbenzamide
                                                           161
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                     Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                    Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                    HN
      A97                              ___                         0.85
                                                     0
                             4-methoxy-N-(1-methoxypentan-2-yl)
                             3-methylbenzamide
                                                    HN
                                 O                             OH
      A98                                            00.88
                                   cl
                             3-chloro-N-(1-hydroxy-4
                             methylpentan-2-yl)-4
                             methoxybenzamide
                                                             0
                                                         H
                                                    H
                                                    N
                                                                 0
      A99                                       0                  0.89
                             (R)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(3
                             methylbenzamido)pentanoate
                                                           162
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table A - Umami Amides
      Compound                                                      Umami     Ec5o ratio (vs. @
      No.                     Compound                              EC5o (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                   H
                              0N
      Al00                   cI                                     1
                                              0
                             3-chloro-4-methoxy-N-(1-p
                             tolylethyl)benzamide
                                                      /HN
      Al01                                             o            1.16      7.62            1
                                               OH
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-2-hydroxy-4
                             methoxybenzamide
                             HO
                                                     HN
      A102                                                          1.32      9.49            1
                             4-hydroxy-3-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                  0
                                                        N
                                                      H
                                        0~                       o0
      A103                                                          1.36
                                           ci
                             (1 S,2R)-ethyl 2-(3-chloro-4
                             methoxybenzamido)
                             cyclohexanecarboxylate
                                                             163
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

        Table A - Umami Amides
        Compound                                                        Umami     EC5o ratio (vs. @
        No.                     Compound                                EC5O (uM) MSG)            (uM)
                                                                      0
                                                  H
                                                  N
        A104                                                  0\        1.37
                                Biphenyl-2-carboxylic acid 2,4
                                dimethoxy-benzylamide
                                                    0
                                                         N
                                                         H
        A105                                                            1.38      2.79            1
                                (S)-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
                                yl)-4-vinylbenzamide
                                                       0
                                                         N
                                        O                H7
        A106                                                            1.39      4.01            0.3
                                3-chloro-N-(2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1
                                yl)-4-methoxybenzamide
                            Numerous amide compounds of Formula (I) that fall within the subgenus of
  "oxalamide" compounds described elsewhere herein were also synthesized and
  experimentally tested for effectiveness as activator of a hT1R1/hT1R3 umami receptor
5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line
  Example 122
  General procedure A for the preparation of an oxalamide
                                                                 164
  10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

   Synthesis of N-(2-Methoxy-benzyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide:
                   o                     H
                                                  N
                              r       yN
                                H      0
                2-Methoxybenzyl amine (5 mmol) was mixed with triethylamine (2 equiv.) in
   anhydrous Dioxane. Ethyl oxalyl chloride (1 equiv.) was added and the mixture was
 5 shaken at room temperature for 0.5-2 hours. Then 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine (1 equiv.)
   was added and the suspension was heated at 80 'C overnight. The solution was
   concentrated and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with water. The
   organic layer was dried by sodium sulfate and solvent was evaporated to give the crude
   product, which was purified by flash column chromatography to afford the title compound:
10 yield 70%, m.p. 118-119 'C; m/e              = 314 [M+1]; 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6 3.02 (t, 2H), 3.76 (dt,
   2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 4.47 (d, 2H), 6.80-6.90 (m, 2H), 7.14-7.18 (m, 2H), 7.20-7.30 (m, 2H),
   7.55-7.62 (m, 1H), 7.75-7.83 (m, 1H), 8.05-8.12 (m, 1H), 8.55-8.63 (m, 1H).
                The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.34 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
15 effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 18.85.
   Example 123
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxy-benzyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                            0            0
                                       H
                 N'jd                      0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzyl amine,
20 ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 72%, m.p. 123-124 'C; m/e               =
   344 [M+1]; 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6 3.02 (t, 2H); 3.73 (dd, 2H); 3.78 (s, 3H); 3.82 (s, 3H);
   4.38 (d, 2H) 6.40 (dd, 1H); 6.44 (d, 1H); 7.14 (m, 3H); 7.59 (m, 1H); 7.82 (t, 1H); 8.11 (t,
                                   13
   1H); 8.56 (d, 1H);                C NMR: 6 36.9, 38.9, 39.4, 55.6, 55.6, 98.8, 104.1, 117.8, 121.9,
   123.5, 130.7, 136.8, 149.6, 158.8, 158.8, 159.6, 160.1, 161.0.
                                                           165
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.09 pM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 6.51.
   Example 124
 5 N-(3-Methyl-thiophen-2-vlmethyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                        H
                  s,                    N,   N
                                H     0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using (3-methyl-thiophen-2-yl)
   methylamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 40%; m.p. 122
   124 'C; m/e           =  304 [M+1]; IH NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.19 (s, 3H), 2.92-2.95 (t, 2H), 3.48
10 3.52 (dd, 2H), 4.37-4.38 (d, 2H), 6.79-6.80 (d, 1H), 7.20-7.27 (m, 3H), 7.67-7.71 (dt, 1H),
   8.48-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.87-8.89 (t, 1H), 9.25-9.28 (t, 1H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.37 pM.
   Example 125
15 General Procedure B for the Snthesis of an Oxalamide
   N-(4-methyl-benzyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                           H
                                           N   N
                               ~-   N
                                    H   0
                4-Methylbenzyl amine (1 mmol) was allowed to react with ethyl oxalyl chloride (1
   equiv.) in the presence of triethyl amine (2 equiv.) in acetonitrile at room temperature for
20 0.5 - 1 hour. Then 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine (1 equiv.) was added and the suspension was
   heated at 160 'C in a microwave reactor for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was subject to
   preparative HPLC to give the pure title oxalamide: yield 60%; m.p. 152-154 'C; m/e = 298
   [M+1]; 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.33 (s, 3H), 3.10 (t, 2H), 3.75 (dt, 2H), 4.43 (d, 2H), 7.10
   7015 (m, 4H), 7.18-7.22 (m, 2H), 7.65-7.73 (m, 2H), 8.12 (b, 1H), 8.60 (d, 1H).
                                                    166
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.41 pM.
   Example 126
   N-(2-Methyl-4-methoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                        0 H
                                           N     N
                                    N   0-         1
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 2-methyl-4-methoxybenzyl
   amine, ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 51 %; m.p. 133-134 'C;
   m/e    =    328 [M+1]; 'H NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.29 (s, 3H); 3.04 (t, 2H); 3.74-3.77 (m, 2H); 3.78
   (s, 3H); 4.40 (d, 2H); 6.69-6.73 (m, 2H); 7.13-7.18 (m, 3H); 7.51 (t, 1H); 7.60-7.63 (m,
10 1H); 8.17 (t, 1H); 8.58 (d, 1H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.11 pM.
   Example 127
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxy-benzyl)-N'-(3-pyridin-2-yl-propyl)-oxalamide
                            0h        0
15                O                        N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzyl amine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride and 3-(2-pyridinyl)propyl amine. Yield 60%; m/e = 358 [M+1]; 'H
   NMR (CDCl3): 6 1.99-2.04 (m, 2H); 2.84 (t, 2H); 3.36 (dd, 2H); 3.79 (s, 3H); 3.82 (s, 3H)
   4.60 (d, 2H); 6.41-6.45 (m, 2H); 7.10-7.17 (m, 3H); 7.57-7.60 (m, 1H); 7.81 (t, 1H); 7.89
20 (t, 1H); 8.54 (d, 1H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.84 pM.
   Example 128
   N-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                                    167
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                                             H
                                        ,,   N       N
                                    H
                                           0
                   0"
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 4-methoxybenzyl amine, ethyl
   oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 50%; m.p. 156-158 'C;           'H NMR:
   3.05 (t, 3H), 3.72-3.77 (m, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 4.40 (d, 2H), 6.86 (d, 2H), 7.16-7.22 (m, 4H),
 5 7.65-7.69 (m, 3H), 8.15 (b, 1H), 8.62 (d, 1H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.75 pM.
   Example 129
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                            0         0
                                             N,      N
10                 ON                      0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzyl amine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine (example 129a). Yield 10%;
   m/e    =    358 [M+1]; IH NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.28 (s, 3H), 3.01 (t, 2H), 3.75-3.82 (m, 2H), 3.79
   (s, 3H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 4.39 (d, 2H), 6.41 (dd, 1H), 6.44 (d, 1H), 7.10 (t, 1H), 7.15 (d, 1H),
15 7.45 (d, 1H), 7.81 (bs, 1H), 8.28 (bs, 1H), 8.40 (d, 1H).
                a.          2-(3-Methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine: To a solution of 2-(3-methylpyridine
   2-yl)acetonitrile (example 129b) (95 mg, 0.72 mmol) in THF (0.5 mL) was added 1 M
   BH3-THF (2.2 mL, 2.2 mmol) dropwise at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
   heated in a microwave reactor at 130 'C for 7 min. Then, 6 N aqueous HCl (1 mL) was
20 added dropwise at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated in a microwave
   reactor at 120 'C for 4 min. The reaction mixture was washed with Et20 (3x3 mL), then
   cooled to 0 'C and 10 N aqueous NaOH (0.8 mL) was added. The aqueous solution was
   saturated with K2CO3. The product was extracted with CHCl3 (6x5 mL). The organic
   extracts were dried (1:1 K2CO3/Na2SO4), filtered, concentrated in vacuo to afford an oil
25 (85 mg, 86%), which was used directly in Example 8. m/e = 137 [M+1].
                                                        168
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                 b.          2-(3-Methylpyridine-2-yl)acetonitrile: To a solution of n-BuLi (2.5 N in
    hexanes, 7.92 mL, 19.8 mmol) at -78 'C under N2 was added dry THF (75 mL), followed
    immediately by a solution of dry MeCN (1.15 mL, 21.78 mmol) in anhydrous THF (30
    mL) over a 5-min period. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred continuously at -78
  5 'C for 1 h. Then 2-bromo-3-methylpyridine (516 mg, 3 mmol) was added. The resulting
    reaction mixture was stirred at -78 'C for 1 h, then warmed to room temperature, and
    quenched with water. The organic solvent was evaporated in vacuo, dissolved in CH2Cl2.
    The organic layer was washed with brine, dried (MgSO4), concentrated, purified via
    column chromatography (20% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the product quantitatively: m/e
10  =   133 [M+1].
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.64 pM.
    Example 130
    N-(2,5-Dimethyl-furan-3-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                       0
                                         ,H
                                            N      N
                               /     N
150
                                 I   H    0
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 2,5-dimethyl-furan-3
    ylmethylamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 510%; m.p.
    112-115 'C; m/e = 302 [M+1]; 'H NMR (DMSO-d): 6 2.14 (s, 3H), 2.18 (s, 3H), 2.91
    2.94 (t, 2H), 3.47-3.51 (dd, 2H), 3.98-3.99 (d, 2H), 5.89 (s, 1H), 7.20-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.68
20  7.71 (dt, 1H), 8,48-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.81-8.84 (t, 1H), 8.97-9.00 (t, 1H).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.01 pM.
    Example 131
    N-(1,5-Dimethyl-1H-pyrrol-2-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                         N           H      N      N'k
25
                                                         169
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 1,5-dimethyl-1H-pyrrol-2
   ylmethyl amine, ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine. Yield 25%; m.p.
   147-149 'C; m/e = 301 [M+1]; 'H NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.11 (s, 3H), 2.92-2.95 (t, 2H),
   3.38 (s, 3H), 3.48-3.52 (q, 2H), 4.24-4.25 (d, 2H), 5.64-5.65 (d, 1H), 5.79-5.65 (d, 1H),
 5 7.20-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.68-7.71 (dt, 1H), 8.48-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.82-8.86 (m, 2H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.3 pM.
   Example 132
   N-(2-methoxy-4-methylbenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
           0                0
                                ,; N      N
                         H       0
10
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (2-methoxy-4
   methylphenyl)methanamine (example 132a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2
   pyridinyl)ethyl amine, yield 20%. m.p: 128-131 'C; m/e        = 328 [M+1]; 'H NMR( CDCl3):
   2.33 (s, 3H); 3.02 (t, 2H); 3.73 (m, 2H); 3.84 (s, 3H); 4.42(d, 2H); 6.70 (m, 2H); 7.14 (m,
15 3H); 7.60 (m, 1H); 7.86 (s, 1H); 8.09 (s, 1H); 8.56 (d, 1H).
                a.          (2-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)methanamine: To a solution of 2-methoxy-4
   methylbenzamide (example 132b) (200 mg, 1.21 mmol ) in THF (0.5 mL) was added 1 M
   BH3-THF (2.4 ml, 2.42 mmol) slowly at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
   heated in a microwave reactor at 130 'C for 7 min. Then 6 N aqueous HCl (1 mL) was
20 added dropwise at room temperature. The resulting mixture was heated in a microwave
   reactor at 120 'C for 4 min. The reaction mixture was washed with Et20 (3x3 mL), then
   cooled to 0 'C and 10 N aqueous NaOH (0.8 mL) was added. The aqueous solution was
   saturated with K2CO3. The product was extracted with CHCl3 (6x5 mL). The organic
   extracts were dried (1:1 K2CO3/Na2SO4), filtered, concentrated in vacuo to afford 180 mg
25 of (2-methoxy-4- methylphenyl)methanamine which was used directly in Example 11.
                b.          2-methoxy-4-methylbenzamide: 2-methoxy-4-methylbenzoic acid (500 mg,
   3.01 mmol) was mixed with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide
   hydrochloride (577 mg, 3.01 mmol ) and 1-hydroxybenzotriazole (407 mg, 3.01 mmol ) in
   25 ml of dichloromethane at r.t. and stiffed for 5 min. 2M ammonia solution in methanol
                                                      170
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   (4.5 ml, 9.03 mmol ) was added, the reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for about 5 hr. then
   it was diluted with dichloromethane, washed with IN HCl, sat. NaHCO3, water and brine,
   dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to give 440 mg of 2-methoxy-4
   methylbenzamide, yield 88%.
 5              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.04 uM
   Example 133
    N-(2,4-dimethylbenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                             0      H
                            ,H 0 N         N
10              Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (2,4
   dimethylphenyl)methanamine (example 133a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2
   pyridinyl)ethyl amine, yield 60%; m.p. 148-149 'C; m/e= 312 [M+1]; 1H NMR (CDCl3):
   2.28 (s, 3H); 2.30 (s, 3H); 3.05 (t, 2H); 3.76 (dd, 2H); 4.43 (d, 2H); 6.99 (m, 2H); 7.11 (d,
   1H); 7.17 (m, 2H); 7.54 (s, 1H); 7.62 (m, 1H); 8.17 (s, 1H); 8.58 (d, 1H).
15 a.           (2,4-Dimethylphenyl)methanamine: Lithium aluminum hydride IM solution in
   THF ( 15.2 ml, 15.2 mmol ) was placed in a pre-dried flask under argon at 0 'C; a solution
   of 2,4-dimethylbenzonitrile (1.0 g, 7.6 mmol ) in 15 ml of anhydrous ether was added
   drop wisely. After the addition, the reaction mixture was warmed up slowly to r.t. and
   stirred for 3 hr. then it was cooled to 0 'C, anhydrous sodium sulfate was added, and 1ml
20 of water was added drop wisely. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate, the insoluble
   matter was filtered out, the filtrate was washed with water and brine, dried over MgSO4,
   filtered and evaporated to give 1.03 g of pure (2,4-dimethylphenyl)methanamine in
   quantitative yield without purification.
   The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor expressed in
25 an HEK293 cell line of 0.07 uM.
   Example 134
   N-(4-ethoxy-2-methoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                     0       0        H
                                      N __   _N
                           "     N
                                 Hoo
                                                    171
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (4-ethoxy-2
   methoxyphenyl)methanamine (example 134a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2
   pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 10%; m.p. 117-118 'C; m/e = 358 [M+1]; 'H NMR (CDCl3):
   1.40 (t, 3H); 3.03 (t, 2H); 3.74 (dd, 2H); 3.82 (s, 3H); 4.01 (dd, 2H); 4.39 (d, 2H); 6.39 (d,
 5 1H); 6.44 (s, 1H); 7.15 (m, 3H), 7.61 (m, 1H); 7.81 (s, 1H); 8.10 (s, 1H); 8.56 (d, 1H).
                a.          (4-ethoxy-2-methoxyphenyl)methanamine: To a solution of 4-ethoxy-2
   methoxybenzaldehyde (example 134b) (880 mg, 4.88 mmol) in 50 ml of anhydrous
   methanol, were added ammonium acetate (7.5 g, 97.60 mmol) and sodium
   cyanoborohydride (613 mg, 9.76 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for about 4
10 hr. then it was concentrated on a rotary evaporator, the residue was diluted with water and
   basified with 15 % aqueous NaOH, extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with water and
   brine, dried over MgSO4, filtered and the solvent was evaporated, the residue was column
   chromatographed on silica gel (DCMI/MeOH 9:1) to afford 150 mg of product; yield 17 %
   (The method was not optimized).
15              b.          4-Ethoxy-2-methoxybenzaldehyde: To a solution of 4-hydroxy-2
   methoxybenzaldehyde (1.0 g, 6.57 mmol ) in 10 ml of acetone, was added potassium
   carbonate (0.91 g, 6.57 mmol) and iodoethane (1.6 ml, 19.71 mmol ), the reaction mixture
   was stirred at r.t. over night. Acetone was removed on a rotary evaporator; the residue was
   diluted with water and ethyl acetate; extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with brine, dried
20 over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to give crude product, which was column
   chromatographed on silica gel (ethyl acetate/hexane = 1:4) to give 943 mg of product;
   yield 80%.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.1 uM.
25 Example 135
    N-(4-Methoxy-3-methylbenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                    0
                                    0
       0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (4-methoxy-3-methylphenyl)
   methanamine (example 135a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine, yield
30 12%; m.p. 145-147 'C; m/e= 328 [M+1]; 'H NMR (CDCl3): 2.19 (s, 3H); 3.04 (t, 2H);
                                                      172
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   3.76 (dd, 2H); 3.81 (s, 3H); 4.37 (d, 2H); 6.76 (d, 1H); 7.06 (m, 2H); 7.16 (m, 2H); 7.61
   (m, 1H); 7.66 (s, 1H); 8.18 (s, 1H); 8.58 (d, 1H).
                a.          4-Methoxy-3-methylphenyl)methanamine: Prepared in a similar manner to
   example 134a using 4-methoxy-3-methylbenzaldehyde, ammonium acetate, and sodium
 5 cyanoborohydride in MeOH; yield 22% (110 mg).
   The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor expressed in
   an HEK293 cell line of 1.04 uM.
   Example 136
   N-(2-chlorobenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide:
                                 N1          N
              CI         O               ;I-
      Ctr           N
10
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (2-chlorophenyl)methanamine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 45%; m/e = 318 [M+1].
   The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor expressed in
   an HEK293 cell line of 0.01 uM
15 Example 137
   N-((2,3-dihydrobenzo [b] [1,41 dioxin-5-yl)methyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)       oxalamide
            o                          H
    0                     N     YN             N
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using (2,3-dihydrobenzo[b][1,4]
   dioxin-5-yl)methanamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield
20 50%; m/e = 342 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.3 uM.
   Example 138
    N-(benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                     0
                 '
               0:[          N       yN         IN
25    0
                                                      173
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5
   ylmethanamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 35%; m/e     =
   328 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
 5 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.5 uM.
   Example 139
   N-(4-Ethylbenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                      H
                                      N
                             H
                                    0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 4-ethylbenzylamine, ethyl
10 oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 38%; m/e = 312 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.79 uM.
   Example 140
   N-(Benzofuran-5-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                      H
                                      N _N
                            H
15    0           -"
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using benzofuran-5-ylmethylamine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 64%; m/e = 324 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.78 uM.
20 Example 141
    N-((4-Methoxycarbonylphenyl)methyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                      0 H
                                         NO' N
           0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 4-methoxycarbonylphenyl
   methylamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 52%; m/e = 342
25 [M+1].
                                                    174
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.63 uM.
    Example 142
     N-((2-Carbamoylphenyl)methyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                  H
                                            N
                            YN
                            H
                 0 N
                             0
 50
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 122 using 2-carbamoylphenyl
    methylamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(2-pyridinyl)ethyl amine; yield 48%; m/e             =  342
    [M+1].
                 The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10  expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 8.5 uM.
    Example 143
     N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(1-(pyridin-2-yl)propan-2-yl)oxalamide
                 o                0
                                     N N _N
                              HIr
     N0                               0
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzylamine,
15  ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 1-(pyridin-2-yl)propan-2-yl amine (example 143a); yield 34%;
    m/e = 357 [M+1].
                 a.           1-(Pyridin-2-yl)propan-2-yl amine: Prepared in a similar manner to
    example 129a using 2-(pyridine-2-yl)propanenitrile (example 143b); crude product was
    used directly in example 143; yield 53%; m/e = 137 [M+1].
20               b.          2-(pyridine-2-yl)propanenitrile: 5 mmol of 2-(pyridine-2-yl)acetonitrile was
    dissolved in 8 ml anhydrous THF and placed in an ice bath. Potassium t-butoxide (1 equiv)
    was added and reaction was stirred for 30 minutes. Methyl iodide (1 equiv) was dissolved
    in 5 mL anhydrous THF and added slowly over 30 minutes. Reaction was stirred overnight
    at room temperature. Solvent was evaporated and crude mixture was dissolved in ethyl
25  acetate and washed with water. Ethyl acetate layer was evaporated and product was
    purified by preparative TLC (30% Ethyl acetate/Hexane); yield 71%; m/e = 133 [M+1].
                                                           175
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.4 uM.
   Example 144
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)propyl)oxalamide
                                    'yHN       N
 5
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzylamine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)propylamine (example 144a); yield 35%; m/e         =
   357 [M+1].
                a.          2-(pyridin-2-yl)propylamine: 10 mmol of 2-methylpyridine was dissolved
10 in anhydrous THF and kept under inert condition at 0 'C. Butyl lithium (1.2 equiv) was
   added dropwise and stirred for additional 15 minutes at 0 'C while letting temperature to
   go back to room temperature. After stirring at room temperature for 1 hour, the reaction
   mixture was cooled again to 0 'C and acetonitrile (2 equiv) was added dropwise. Reaction
   was stirred overnight at room temperature. After cooling the reaction to 0 'C, 30 mL of
15 methanol was added into the reaction mixture. Sodium borohydride (3 equiv) was added in
   portion slowly at 0 'C. Reaction was stirred for another hour letting temperature to rise to
   room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted exhaustively
   with ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were washed with water, brine and dried down
   over sodium sulfate. Solution was concentrated down and dissolved in ether. Product was
20 extracted with 3 N aqueous HCl, and the acidic extract was washed with ether and made
   basic with NaOH. Product was extracted exhaustively with ether. The combined ether
   extracts was washed with water and dried down over sodium sulfate. Solvent was
   evaporated down to yield sufficiently pure product; yield 47%; m/e = 137 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
25 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.07 uM
   Example 145
   N-(2-Methoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                             0 H
                                 N       Ny;e
                    HI
                                                        176
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2-methylbenzylamine, ethyl
    oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethylamine; m/e = 298 [M+1]; IH NMR (CDCl3) 6
    2.32 (s, 3H), 3.11 (t, 2H), 3.78 (dt, 2H), 4.46 (d, 2H), 7.15-7.26 (m, 6H), 7.50-7.55 (m,
    1H), 7.62-7.67 (m, 1H), 8.12-8.15 (m, 1H), 8.60 (d, 1H).
  5              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.59 uM.
    Example 146
    N-(2,3-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                 o                oH
        O                      N       N     N
                              H      0
10               Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2,3-dimethoxybenzylamine,
    ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethylamine; m/e = 343 [M+1].
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.69 uM.
    Example 147
15   N-(2-(Methylthio)benzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
        S                                  N
                                         I
                                         -yN
                     N
            r-       H       0
                 Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2-methylthiobenzylamine, ethyl
    oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethylamine; m/e = 330 [M+1]; 'H NMR (CDCl3) 6
    2.49 (s, 3H), 3.08 (t, 2H), 3.77 (dt, 2H), 4.55 (d, 2H), 7.11-7.14 (m, 1H), 7.15-7.20 (m,
20  2H), 7.22-7.27 (m, 3H), 7.62 (t, 1H), 7.78-7.83 (m, 1H), 8.08-8.11 (m, 1H), 8.56 (d, 1H).
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.96 uM.
    Example 148
     N-(2-Hydroxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
        OH                0
                                  N        N
25
                                                     177
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using 2-hydroxybenzylamine, ethyl
   oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethylamine; m/e = 300 [M+1].
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 3.11 uM.
 5 Example 149
   N-(Benzo[d] [1,3]dioxol-4-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                  0 H
            oNS           N
                                            N
                          H
                   7              0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-4-ylmethyl
   amine (example 149a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine; yield 12%;
10 m/e    =    328 [M+1]; 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6 3.12 (m, 2H), 3.77-3.80 (m, 2H), 4.46-4.47 (d, 2H),
   5.98 (s, 2H), 6.74-6.79 (m, 3H), 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.7-7.8 (m, 3H), 8.10-8.15 (m, 1H), 8.58
   8.59 (m, 1H).
                a.          Benzo[d][1,3]dioxol-4-ylmethyl amine: Prepared in a similar manner to
   example 134a from benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-4-carbaldehyde and ammonium acetate. The
15 crude material contained app. 20 % of the product (m/e = 152.2 [M+1]) and was used
   directly in example 149.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.17 uM.
   Example 150
20 N-(Benzo[bthiophen-2-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                      H
                                      N      N
          C                N
                 S         H        0
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using benzo[b]thiophen-2
   ylmethanamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine; yield 32%; m/e =
   240 [M+1]; 1H NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.92-2.95 (t, 2H), 3.48-3.53 (m, 2H), 4.55-4.56 (d,
25 2H), 7.20-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.38-7.41 (m, 2H), 7.50 (s, 1H), 7.66-7.70 (m, 1H), 7.95-7.99 (m,
   2H), 8.47-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.88-8.90 (t, 1H), 9.29-9.31 (t, 1H).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.74 uM.
                                                        178
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 151
    N-(Benzo[dlthiazol-2-ylmethyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                    H
               NN                   N     N
                           N
                           H---
                  Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using benzo[d]thiazol-2
 5 ylmethanamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine; yield 33%; m/e     =
   341 [M+1]; 1H NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.95-2.98 (t, 2H), 3.52-3.57 (m, 2H), 4.72-4.73 (d,
   2H), 7.22-7.24 (m, 1H), 7.25-7.27 (d, 1H), 7.40-7.44 (t, 1H), 7.48-7.51 (t, 1H), 7.69-7.72
   (dt, 1H), 7.95-7.96 (d, 1H), 8.05-8.07 (d, 1H), 8.49-8.50 (d, 1H), 8.96-8.98 (t, 1H), 9.67
   9.70 (t, 1H).
10                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.4 uM.
   Example 152.
   N-((5-Methylfuran-2-yl)methyl)-N2-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                        0
                           ,,JH
                                N_     N
               --   N
15                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (5-methylfuran-2
   yl)methanamine, ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine; yield 38%; m/e     =
   288 [M+1]; 1H NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.20 (s, 3H), 2.92-2.95 (t, 2H), 3.48-3.52 (m, 2H),
   4.23-4.24 (d, 2H),5.96-5.97 (d, 1H), 6.06-6.07 (d, 1H), 7.20-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.68-7.71 (t,
   1H), 8.48-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.85-8.87 (t, 1H), 9.04-9.07 (t, 1H).
20                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.9 uM
   Example 153
    N-((2-Methylfuran-3-yl)methyl)-N'-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                            0
                           _yN         N
                 I  H 0
25                Prepared in a similar manner to example 125 using (2-methylfuran-3
   yl)methanamine (example 153a), ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine;
                                                      179
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   yield 50%; m/e             =  288 [M+1]; 'H NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 2.23 (s, 3H), 2.91-2.94 (t, 2H), 3.48
   3.52 (q, 2H), 4.05-4.06 (d, 2H), 6.30-6.31 (d, 1H), 7.20-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.38-7.39 (d, 1H),
   7.67-7.71 (dt, 1H), 8.48-8.49 (d, 1H), 8.83-8.86 (t, 1H), 9.04-9.07 (t, 1H).
                a.          (2-Methylfuran-3-yl)methanamine:     A solution of 10 mmol (1.256 ml) of
 5 methyl 2-methylfuran-3-carboxylate and 38.9 mmol (2.1 g) of NaOMe in 20 ml of
   formamide was stirred at 100 'C for 30 min. The reaction mixture was poured into ice
   water (20 ml) and extracted with ethyl acetate (3x). The extract was dried over MgSO4 and
   concentrated to give 1.05 g (83%) of 2-methylfuran-3-carboxamide as oil (m/e = 126.2
   [M+ 1]). The amide was dissolved in dry THF (10 ml) and drop-wise added to 15 ml of IM
10 LiAlH4 with 15 ml THF at 0 'C under argon. Then the mixture was stirred for 5 hrs at 60
   'C. Following cooling, 50% aqueous THF (30 ml) was added to the mixture at 5-10 0 C.
   The resulting precipitate was removed by filtration and the filtered solution was dried and
   concentrated to give an oily product (0.93 g, 84%).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
15 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.82 uM
   Example 154
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                      _O            0
                                 No    'HN
                                 H
                                      0
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 122 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzylamine,
20 ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine (example 154a); yield 11%;
   m/e    =    358 [M+1]; m.p. 144-145 0C; 'H NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.31 (s, 3H), 2.97 (t, 2H), 3.71
   (q, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 4.39 (d, 2H), 6.40 (dd, 1H), 6.44 (d, 1H), 6.97 (s, 1H),
   6.98 (d, 1H), 7.15 (d, 1H), 7.81 (br s, 1H), 8.08 (br s, 1H), 8.41 (d, 1H).
                a.          2-(4-Methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine: Prepared in a similar manner to
25 example 129 using 2-(4-methylpyridin-2-yl)acetonitrile (example 154b); yield 83%; m/e             =
   137 [M+1].
                b.          2-(4-Methylpyridin-2-yl)acetonitrile: Prepared in a similar manner to
   example 129b using 2-bromo-4-methylpyridine, acetonitrile and n-BuLi; yield 88%; m/e              =
   133 [M+1].
                                                        180
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.64 uM
   Example 155
    N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(5-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                    0
                                          N        N
                                       0
 5
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 122 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzylamine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride, and 2-(5-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine (example 155a); yield 9%;
   m/e    =    358 [M+1]; m.p. 124-125 0C; 'H NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.30 (s, 3H), 2.97 (t, 2H), 3.70
   (q, 2H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 4.38 (d, 2H), 6.40 (dd, 1H), 6.44 (d, 1H), 7.03 (d, 1H),
10 7.14 (d, 1H), 7.40 (dd, 1H), 7.81 (br s, 1H), 8.08 (br s, 1H), 8.38 (d, 1H).
                a.          2-(5-Methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl amine: Prepared in a similar manner to 129a
   using 2-(5-methylpyridin-2-yl)acetonitrile (155b); yield 40%; m/e           =  137 [M+1].
                b.          2-(5-Methylpyridin-2-yl)acetonitrile: Prepared in a similar manner to 129b
   using 2-bromo-5-methylpyridine, acetonitrile and n-BuLi; yield 68%; m/e = 133 [M+1].
15 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor expressed in
   an HEK293 cell line of 0.07 uM
   Example 156
   N-(2,4-Dimethoxybenzyl)-N'-(2-(thiophen-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                 0                  0
                                      "'H          S/
                                      N N *'
                                 H
                                       0
20              Prepared in a similar manner to Example 122 using 2,4-dimethoxybenzylamine,
   ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(thiophen-2-yl)ethyl amine; yield 72%; m/e = 349 [M+1]; m.p.
   146-147 0C; 'H NMR (CDCl3): 6 3.06 (t, 2H), 3.58 (q, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.83 (s, 3H),
   4.40 (d, 2H), 6.41 (dd, 1H), 6.45 (d, 1H), 6.84 (dd, 1H), 6.93 (dd, 1H), 7.15 (d, 1H), 7.16
   (d, 1H), 7.61 (br s, 1H), 7.81 (br s, 1H).
25              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.87 uM.
                                                        181
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 157
   N 1 -(2-methoxy-4-methylbenzyl)-N                 2
                                                       -(2-(5-methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                           0
                                                 NNN
                                       H
                                              0
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 125 using 2-methoxy-4
 5 methylbenzylamine (example 132a), ethyl oxalyl chloride and 2-(4-methylpyridin-2
   yl)ethylamine (example 155a). Yield 20%; m.p. 116-117 OC; IH NMR (CDCl3): 6 2.31 (s,
   3H), 2.34 (s, 3H), 3.00 (t, 2H), 3.71 (q, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 4.42 (d, 2H), 6.69 (s, 1H), 6.71
   (d, 1H), 7.05 (d, 1H), 7.11 (d, 1H), 7.43 (d, 1H), 7.84 (br s, 1H), 8.04 (br s, 1H), 8.39 (s,
   1H); MS(M+H, 342).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.03 uM
                Additional "oxalamide" compounds were synthesized and experimentally tested
   and found to have a relatively high level of effectiveness as an activator of a hTlR1/hTlR3
   umami receptor expressed in an HEK293 cell line. The results of that testing are shown
15 below in Table B.
      Table B - Umami Oxalamides
      Compound                                                                   Umami EC 5 o Ec5o ratio (vs.
                                Compound
      No.                                                                        (uM)         MSG)
                                                              H
                                                              N           0
          BI                    0                         0                      0.18
                                Ni-(2,4-dimethoxybenzyl)-N2-(2-(furan-2
                                yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                                               182
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     Table B - Umami Oxalamides
     Compound                                                                 Umami EC 5 o Ec5o ratio (vs.
                               Compound
     No.                                                                      (uM)         MSG)
                                                                        N
                                                            HN
         B2                                            H                      0.19
                                                       N
                                                                 0
                                          O               O
                               Ni-(4-ethoxy-2-methoxybenzyl)-N2-(2-(5
                               methylpyridin-2-yl)ethyl)oxalamide
                                                                       N
                                                                 NH
         B3                                 S         HN                      0.81
                                                 /0
                               N-(3-Methyl-benzo[b]thiophen-2-ylmethyl)-N -(2
                               pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-oxalamide
                                     O              NH    HN            N
         B4                                                                   1.22
                                                    O       O
                               Ni-(2-isopropoxybenzyl)-N2-(2-(pyridin-2
                               yl)ethyl)oxalamide
               Numerous amide compounds of Formula (I) that fall within the subgenus of "urea"
  compounds described elsewhere herein were also synthesized and experimentally tested
  for effectiveness as activator of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor expressed in an HEK293
5 cell line.
                                                               183
  10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 158
   1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(heptan-4-yl)urea
                              N 0
                    CI        H      H
                   CI
                To a solution of heptan-4-amine (0.18 mL, 1 mmol) in CH2Cl2 (5 mL) was added
 5 1-chloro-2-isocyanatobenzene (0.12 mL, 1 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction
   mixture was stirred for 2 h. A white solid was precipitated out. The reaction mixture was
   filtered. The solid was washed with CH2Cl2 to afford 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(heptan-4
   yl)urea (180 mg, 67%) as a white solid. mp: 135-136 0C.         'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6
   0.93 (t, 6H), 1.45 (m, 6H), 1.53 (m, 2H), 3.80 (br s, 1H), 4.33 (d, 1H), 6.00 (s, 1H), 6.95
10 (td, 1H), 7.23 (dt, 1H), 7.33 (dd, 1H), 8.13 (dd, 1H). MS(M+H, 269).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.37 ptM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 4.95.
   Example 159
15 1-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-(heptan-4-yl)urea
                                    H    H
                                    N TN_:
                         00
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 158 using heptan-4-amine and 1
   isocyanato-2,4-dimethoxybenzene. Yield: 88%. mp: 172-173 0 C. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.93 (t, 6H), 1.45 (m, 8H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 3.83 (m, 1H), 3.84 (s, 1H), 4.32 (br s,
20 1H), 6.34 (br s, 1H), 6.49 (d, 1H), 6.50 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 295).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.98 ptM, and when present at 0.3 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 7.61.
                                                    184
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   Example 160
   1-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-3-(2-(pyridine-2-yl)ethyl)urea
                                         H    H
                                        -  04
                Prepared in a similar manner to example 158 using 2-(pyridine-2-yl)ethanamine
 5 and 1-ethoxy-4-isocyanatobenzene. Yield: 95%. mp: 163-164 OC. IH NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 1.43 (t, 3H), 3.03 (t, 2H), 3.68 (t, 2H), 4.03 (q, 2H), 5.69 (br s, 1H), 6.45 (br s,
   1H), 6.84 (m, 2H), 7.14 (m, 3H), 7.20 (d, 1H), 7.64 (dt, 1H), 8.43 (dd, 1H). MS
   (M+H,286).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
10 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.1 ptM, and when present at 1 pM enhanced the
   effectiveness of monosodium glutamate with an EC5o ratio of 4.2.
   Example 161
   1-(4-isopropylphenyl)-3-(2-(pyridine-2-vl)ethyl)urea
                                      H    H
                                      N    N    N
                                    -    0
15              Prepared in a similar manner to example 158 using 2-(pyridine-2-yl)ethanamine
   and 1-isocyanato-4-isopropylbenzene. Purified via column chromatography (1% MeOH in
   CH2Cl2 to 3% MeOH in CH2Cl2) to afford 1-(4-isopropylphenyl)-3-(2-(pyridine-2
   yl)ethyl)urea (130 mg, 50%) as a white solid. mp: 72-73 0C.        'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 1.25 (d, 6H), 2.89 (m, 1H), 3.06 (t, 2H), 3.70 (t, 2H), 5.80 (br s, 1H), 6.55 (br s,
20 1H), 7.19 (m, 5H), 7.24 (d, 1H), 7.68 (dt, 1H), 8.46 (d, 1H). MS (M+H, 284).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.98 pM.
                                                    185
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

             Additional "urea" compounds were synthesized and experimentally tested and
found to have a relatively high level of effectiveness as an activator of a hTlR1/hTlR3
umami receptor expressed in an HEK293 cell line. The results of that testing are shown
below in Table C.
     Table C - Umami Ureas
                                                                         Umami Ec50
     Compound              IUPAC Name                                    EC5o  ratio (vs. Con.
     No.                                                                 uM    MSG)       (uM)
                                       HN                                0.37  4.95       1
         C1                CI
                                            0
                           1-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-(heptan-4-yl)urea
                           CI
         C2                                HN                            0.49  4.52       1
                           CI       HN
                                            0
                           1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1-phenylpropyl)urea
                                        0
                                   ~      >-NH
                                        NH
         C3                             NH                               0.52  3.24       3
                                    CI
                           1-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-(2-methylcyclohexyl)urea
         C4                F          HN                                 0.79  12.15      3
                           F      HN      (
                                           0
                           1-(2-fluorophenyl)-3-(heptan-4-yl)urea
                                                             186
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     Table C - Umami Ureas
                                                                               Umami Ec50
     Compound              IUPAC Name                                          EC 5o ratio (vs. Con.
     No.                                                                       uM    MSG)       (uM)
                           CI
         C5                                 H                                  0.84  9.08       1
                                        0     T
                           1-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-(1-cyclohexylethyl)urea
         C6                                  HN              N                 0.98
                                      HN
                           1-(4-isopropylphenyl)-3-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)ethyl)urea
                                          0
                                   S  N)KN
         C7                     CI    H       H                                0.99  3.68       1
                           1-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                           1-yl)urea
                                      0
                                       NN
         C8                          HN                                        1.41  2.62       0.3
                                          0
                           1-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-(2
                           methylcyclohexyl)urea
                                                              187
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     Table C - Umami Ureas
                                                                              Umami Ec50
     Compound              IUPAC Name                                         EC 5o ratio (vs. Con.
     No.                                                                      uM    MSG)       (uM)
                                         HN
         C9                                      \                            1.42
                                                 HN
                           1-(2-ethylphenyl)-3-(heptan-4-yl)urea
                                                   0
                                                          NH
                                  O                 NH
         C10                                                                  1.51  2.1        0.3
                           1-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-3-(2-methylcyclohexyl)urea
                                      N        N
         Cli                    F     H        H                              1.65  4.49       1
                           1-(2-fluorophenyl)-3-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                           1-yl)urea
                                            ~~N
         C12               -O             HN                                  1.67
                           1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-3-(2-methylcyclohexyl)urea
                                      0
         C13                   0               H                              1.72  11.87      1
                                     HN        N
                           1-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-(pentan-3 -yl)urea
                                                              188
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

               Numerous amide compounds of Formula (I) that fall within the subgenus of
  "acrylamide" compounds described elsewhere herein were also synthesized and
  experimentally tested for effectiveness as activator of a hTlR1/hTlR3 umami receptor
  expressed in an HEK293 cell line. The results of that testing are shown below in Table D.
5
       Table D - Umami Acrylamides
       Compound                                                   Umami EC5o Ec5o ratio @
                             Compound
       No.                                                        (uM)       (vs. MSG)  (uM)
                                      0 -0
                                                        H
       DI                                                         0.29       3.46       1
                             (E)-N-(2,4-dimethylpentan-3-yl)-3-(4
                             methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
                                                                0
                                                     HN
       D2                                   0                     0.32
                             (R,E)-methyl 2-(3-(4-methoxyphenyl)
                             acrylamido)-4-methylpentanoate
                                              0
                                           H
       D3                          0                              0.63
                             (E)-methyl 2-(3-(4-methoxyphenyl)
                             acrylamido)hexanoate
       D4                                       H                 0.69       9.73       1
                             N-(1-Methyl-3-phenyl-propyl)-3
                             thiophen-2-yl-acrylamide
                                                              189
  10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     Table D - Umami Acrylamides
     Compound                                                       Umami EC5 o Ec5o ratio @
                           Compound
     No.                                                            (uM)        (vs. MSG)  (uM)
                                                     H
     D5                                                             0.72        3.48       0.3
                           (E)-N-(heptan-4-yl)-3-(4
                           methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
                                                  H
                                                  N
                                              0
     D6                                                             0.75        6.3
                           N-(1-Propyl-butyl)-3-thiophen-2-yl
                           acrylamide
                             0                         HN
     D7                                                             0.82        9.62
                                                        0
                           (E)-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-N
                           (pentan-3-yl)acrylamide
                                                          H
                                                          N1 k,
     D8                                               0             0.94
                           (R,E)-3-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-N-(1
                           methoxy-4-methylpentan-2
                           yl)acrylamide
     D9                                                             0.98
                  D9                              NH
                           (Z)-N-(heptan-4-yl)hex-2-enamide
                                                                190
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

     Table D - Umami Acrylamides
     Compound                                                   Umami EC5 o Ec5o ratio @
                           Compound
     No.                                                        (uM)        (vs. MSG)  (uM)
                                                  -0
                                                             0
                                                 HN
     D1O                                                        1.09
                           (R,E)-methyl 4-methyl-2-(3-(thiophen
                           3-yl)acrylamido)pentanoate
                                                   -0
     D1I                                                        1.17
                                                  0
                           (R)-methyl 2-cinnamamido-4
                           methylpentanoate
                                          0
                                                     NH
     D12                                                        1.28
                           (E)-4-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)
                           pent-2-enamide
                                       O        \      HN
     D13                                                        1.31        2.7        0.3
                                                        0
                           (E)-N-sec-butyl-3-(4
                           ethoxyphenyl)acrylamide
                                                           191
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

        Table D - Umami Acrylamides
        Compound                                                  Umami EC5 o Ec5o ratio @
                              Compound
        No.                                                       (uM)        (vs. MSG)  (uM)
                                    0        7          H
                                                        No
                                                        N
                                                                0
        D14                                                       1.43        8.48       1
                              (E)-N-(1-methoxybutan-2-yl)-3-(4
                              methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
                              S                       H
                                                     N
        D15                                                       1.54        2.22       0.3
                                                 0
                              (E)-N-(heptan-4-yl)-3
                              (thiophen-3-yl)acrylamide
                                 0
                                                    H
                                                    N
        D16                                                       1.56        3.13       1
                                                  0
                              (E)-3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(4
                              phenylbutan-2-yl)acrylamide
   Umami/Savory Flavor Experiments Using Human Panelists:
                General Panelist Selection: Basic screening of sensory taste testers: Potential
   panelists were tested for their abilities to rank and rate intensities of solutions representing
 5 the five basic tastes. Panelists ranked and rated intensity of five different concentrations of
   each of the five following compounds: sucrose (sweet), sodium chloride (salty), citric acid
   (sour), caffeine (bitter), and monosodium glutamate (savory). In order to be selected for
   participation in testing, panelists needed to correctly rank and rate samples for intensity,
   with a reasonable number of errors.
10              Preliminary Taste Tests: The panelists selected in the above procedure were
   deemed qualified for performing Preliminary Taste Testing procedures. The preliminary
   taste tests are used to evaluate new compounds for intensity of basic tastes and off-tastes.
                                                              192
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   A small group of panelists (n=5) taste approximately 5 concentrations of the compound
   (range typically between 1-100 pM, in half-log cycles, e.g., 1, 3, 10, 30, and 100 PM) in
   water and in a solution of 12 mM MSG to evaluate enhancement. Panelists rate the five
   basic tastes (sweet, salty, sour, bitter, and savory) as well as off-tastes (such as chemical,
 5 metallic, sulfur) on a labeled magnitude scale. Samples are served in 10 mL portions at
   room temperature. The purpose of the test is to determine the highest concentration at
   which there is no objectionable off-taste, and determine if obvious savory taste or
   enhancement of savory taste exists at any of the concentrations tested.
                If the compound is effective and does not have objectionable off-tastes, it is tested
10 with a trained (expert panel) in a larger study.
                Trained Panelist Selection: A trained expert panel was used to further evaluate
   compounds that had been tested with the preliminary taste test.
                Panelists for the trained panel were selected from the larger group of qualifying
   taste panelists. Panelists were further trained on savory taste by ranking and rating
15 experiments using MSG and IMP combinations. Panelists completed a series of ranking,
   rating, and difference from reference tests with savory solutions. In ranking and rating
   experiments, panelists evaluated easy MSG concentrations (0, 6, 18, 36 mM) and more
   difficult MSG concentrations (3, 6, 12, 18 mM MSG) in water.
                Compound testing with Trained Panel: Compounds tested by the trained panel were
20 evaluated in difference from reference experiments. Panelists were given a reference
   sample (12 mM MSG + 100 pM IMP) and asked to rate samples on a scale of -5 to +5 in
   terms of difference in savory taste from the reference (score: -5 = much less savory taste
   than the reference; 0 = same savory taste as the reference; +5 = much more savory taste
   than the reference). Test samples were solutions with varying amounts of MSG, IMP, and
25 the compound. Typically, each session compares the reference sample to numerous test
   samples .Tests typically included various samples with varying concentrations of MSG and
   IMP, as well as one blind sample of the reference itself, to evaluate panel accuracy.
   Results of the taste tests are describe in table 3 and shows that compounds of the invention
   have been found to provide savory taste or enhancement of the savory taste at 3 PM +
30 MSG when compared to 100 pM IMP + MSG. Compounds were tested against the
                                                      193
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

  reference in samples with and without 12 mM MSG. All samples were presented in 10 ml
  volumes at room temperature. Two sessions were completed for each compound tested to
  evaluate panel reproducibility.
               Taste Test in Product Prototype: could be done similarly as described above.
5              Table 3. Savory Taste Test Results
  Compound
                                 Chemical Name                  Taste Data
  No.
                                 N-(heptan-4-                   12 mM MSG + 3 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 1
                                 yl)benzo[d][1,3]dioxole-5-     12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 carboxamide
                                 (R)-methyl 2-(benzo[d][1,3]    12 mM MSG + 10 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 6
                                 dioxole-6-carboxamido)-4-      12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 methylpentanoate
                                 (R)-N-(1-methoxy-4-            12 mM MSG + 3 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 71
                                 methylpentan-2-yl)-3,4-        12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 dimethylbenzamide
                                 (R)-methyl-2-(2,3-             12 mM MSG + 10 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 98                     dimethylfuran-5-               12mM MSG + 100 gM IMP
                                 carboxamido)-4
                                 methylpentanoate
                                 4-Methoxy-N-(1-                12 mM MSG + 3 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 104
                                 methoxymethyl-3-methyl-        12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 butyl)-3-methyl-benzamide
                                 N-(2,4-Dimethoxy-benzyl)-N'-   12 mM MSG + 1 pM cpd as strong as
  Example 123
                                 (2-pyridin-2-yl-ethyl)-        12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 oxalamide
                                                            194
  10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

   Compound
                                 Chemical Name                Taste Data
   No.
                                 N'-(2-methoxy-4
                                          N1 -(2methoy-4-12 mM MSG + 0.3 p~M cpd as strong
   Example 157                   methylbenzyl)-N 2-(2-(5
                                                              as 12mM MSG + 100 pM IMP
                                 methylpyridin-2
                                 yl)ethyl)oxalamide
   Sweet Amide Examples
                Numerous amide compounds of Formula (I) were synthesized and experimentally
   tested for effectiveness as activator of a hTlR2/hTlR3 "sweet" receptor expressed in an
 5 HEK293 cell line. Examples of the synthesis and biological effectiveness testing in terms
   of Sweet EC5o measurements for such sweet compounds are listed below. Moreover, many
   of the "sweet" amides of Formula (I) were also screened for activity in the umami EC5o
   and EC5o ratio assays, and as illustrated below, some of the amide compounds of Formula
   (I) have significant activity and potential to simultaneously serve as savory and sweet taste
10 enhancers for use in comestible and medicinal products and compositions.
   Example 162
   2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                       F
                                 F
                            H
                            N        N      F
                                0      F
                2,3,5,6 -tetrafluoro-p-toluic acid acid (4.00 g, 19.22 mmol) , HOBt (5.19 g, 38.44
15 mmol) and EDCI (4.42 g 23.06 mmol) were mixed in 200 ml of anhydrous DCM and 30
   ml of anhydrous DMF. The mixture was cooled to 00 C and allowed to stir under Ar for 15
   minutes. To the mixture was added 2-methylcyclohexanamine (3.05 mL, 23.06 mmol) and
   the reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to ambient temperature and stirred
   overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM , washed with IN HCl, water,
20 aqueous NaHCO3, water and brine, drying over MgSO4, filtration and removal of solvent
                                                         195
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   in vacuo, afforded the crude product as a pale yellow solid Recrystallization (EtOH/H20)
   and drying in vacuo gave 5.23 g of the title compound as a white solid (mixture of 2
   diasteromers, 90%). 'H NMR (CDCl3) 6 0.95, 1.01 (d, J= 7.0, 6,6 Hz, 3H) 1.1-2.1 (m,
   9H), 2.29 (m, 3H), 3.70, 4.29 (m, 1H), 5.65, 5.92 (m, 1H). MS (304.1, M+H). m. p. 202
 5 204 0 C.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.39 pM.
   Example 163
   (S)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methyl-N-(3-methylbutan-2-yl)benzamide
                                     F
                                 F
                            H
                            NF
10                               0   F
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 162 using (S)-3-methylbutan-2-amine and
   2,3,5,6 -tetrafluoro-p-toluic acid acid (93%). 'H NMR (CDCl3) 6 0.98 (d, J= 6.9 Hz, 6H)
   1.18 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 3H), 2.29 (m, 3H), 4.09 (m, 1H), 5.72 (bs, 1H).MS ( 304.1, M+H ) m.
   p. 146-147 C.
15              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.6 pM.
   Example 164
   N-cycloheptyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                      F
                               H
                               N     N  F
                                   0  F
20              Prepared in a similar manner to Example 162 using cycloheptylamine and 2,3,5,6
   tetrafluoro-p-toluic acid (94%). IH NMR (CDCl3) 6 1.53 (m, 6H), 1.57 (m, 4H), 2.03 (m,
   2H) 2.28 (m, 3H), 4.17 (m, 1H), 5.85 (bs, 1H).MS (304.1, M+H) m. p. 164-165 0 C.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.85 pM.
25 Example 165
                                                   196
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   N-(2,4-dimethylpentan-3-yl)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                      F
                            HF
                            N       N    F
                                0     F
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 162 using 2,4-dimethylpentan-3-amine
   and 2,3,5,6 -tetrafluoro-p-toluic acid (90%). 'H NMR (CDCl3) 6 0.91 (d, J = 6.7 Hz, 6H),
 5 1.00 (d, J = 6.8 Hz, 6H), 1.85 (m, 2H), 2.29 (m, 3H), 3.82 (m, 1H), 5.52 (bd, 1H).MS
   (306.1, M+H) m. p. 184-187 'C.
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.81p M.
   Example 166
10 N-(5,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)-3-methylisoxazole-4-carboxamide
                      N-O
                 HN          0
                To a solution of 3-methylisoxazole-4-carboxylic acid (83 mg, 0.0.67 mmol), HOBt
   (100 mg, 0.74 mmol) and EDCI-HCl (142 mg, 0.74 mmol) in DMF (4 mL), was added
   5,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl-1-amine (example 166a) (130 mg, 0.74 mmol).
15 The reaction mixture was stirred for 24h at rt, at which time the solvent was removed
   under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by flash-column chromatography
   (10:1 Hex:EtOAc) to afford 134 mg of N-(5,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
   yl)-3-methylisoxazole-4-carboxamide (70 %) as a white foamy solid. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6): 6 1.74 (m, 2H), 1.86 (m, 2H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 2.19 (s, 3H), 2.43 (s, 3H), 2.55 (m,
                                                                                               13C
20 2H), 5.10 (m, 1H), 6.86 (s, 1H), 6.89 (s, 1H), 8.60 (d, 1H, J= 8.40 Hz), 9.27 (s, 1H).
   NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 10.6, 19.1, 19.6, 20.6, 25.8, 29.4, 46.9, 115.4, 126.4, 129.1,
   132.6, 134.1, 135.8, 136.6, 158.5, 159.6, 159.9. MS(M+H, 285). Mp 57-58 OC.
                a.          5,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-amine: A catalytic amount of
   Raney nickel (slurry in water) was washed with dry MeOH under argon in a round bottom
                                                         197
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   flask. To a solution of the washed Raney Ni in methanolic ammonia (25 mL, 7N), was
   added 5,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one oxime (example 166b) (420 mg,
   2.22 mmol), and the mixture was stirred under a balloon of H2 for 20 hr. Upon
   completion, the reaction was filtered through celite, the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo,
 5 diluted with EtOAC, washed with water and brine, dried over MgSO4, filtered and the
   solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford 360 mg of 5,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,4
   tetrahydronaphthalen-1-amine (93 %). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 1.66-1.83 ( m, 4H),
   1.96 (im, 2H ), 2.19 ( s, 3H), 2.28 ( s, 3H ), 2.55 ( m, 1H), 2.66 (im, 1H ), 3.97 (im, 1H),
   6.88 ( s, 1H), 7.09 ( s, 1H ).
10              b.          Preparation of 5,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one oxime: To a
   mixture of 5,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one (2.0 g, 11.48 mmol) and
   hydroxylamine hydrochloride ( 1.6 g, 19.73 mmol ) in 10 ml of water at 70 OC, were added
   MeOH (14 mL), THF (3 mL) and a solution of sodium acetate (2.53 g, 30.83 mmol, in 7
   mL of H20 ). Stirring was continued for 85 min at 70 0 C, at which time a precipitate was
15 formed and 10 ml of water were added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room
   temperature for 2 hr. Upon completion, the product was collected by filtration to afford
   2.12 g of 5,7-dimethyl-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one oxime (98 %). MS (M+H, 190).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.76 pM.
20 Example 167
   3-chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(5-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)                 benzamide
                                      CI
                                      OH
                          HN        0
                Prepared in similar manner to Example 166using 5-methoxy-1,2,3,4
   tetrahydronaphthalen-1-amine (Example 167a). Yield 40 %. 'H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
25 d6):   6 1.73 (m, 1H), 1.83 (m, 1H), 1.96 (m, 2H), 2.61 (m, 2H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 5.27 (m, 1H),
   6.78 (d, 1H, J= 7.82 Hz), 6.86 (m, 2H), 7.14 (t, 1H, J= 7.98 Hz), 7.60 (dd, 1H, J= 7.88,
                                                         198
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   1.30 Hz), 7.94 (dd, 1H, J= 8.03, 1.39 Hz), 9.30 (d, 1H, J= 8.06 Hz), 13.80 (s, 1H).        13C
   NMR (125 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 19.5, 22.7, 28.9, 47.4, 55.3, 108.6, 115.8, 118.7, 119.8,
   121.1, 125.9, 126.2, 126.4, 133.8, 137.3, 156.7, 156.8, 168.7. MS(M+H, 332). Mp 175-176
   oC.
 5              a.          5-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-amine: Prepared in a similar
   manner to example 166a using 5-methoxy-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one. Yield 94 %.
   'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 1.63-1.79 (im, 4H), 1.94 (im, 2H), 2.60 (im, 1H), 2.71 (
   m, 1H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 3.97 (im, 1H), 6.71 (d, 1H), 7.02 (d, 1H), 7.17 (t, 1H).
   The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor expressed in
10 an HEK293 cell line of 0.21 pM.
   Example 168
   2,6-dimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                 NJN
                                 H
15              Prepared in a similar manner to Example 162 using 2,6-dimethylbenzoic acid and
   2-methylcyclohexylamine.Yield: 59%. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 0.88-0.94 (3H, dd),
   1.14-1.89 (9H, m), 2.21-2.22 (6H, d), 3.39-3,45 (1H, m), 7.02-7.03 (2H,d), 7.12-7.15 (1H,
   t), 8.11-8.13 (lH, d). MS(M+H, 246.2).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
20 expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.88 pM.
   Example 169
   4-methoxy-2,6-dimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                    H
                   0
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 166 using 4-methoxy-2,6
25 dimethylbenzoic acid (example 169a) and 2-methylcyclohexylamine. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   CDCl3): 6 0.86-0.92 (3H, dd), 1.00-1.85 (m, 9H), 2.18-2.19 (6H, d), 3.33-3.45 (1H, m),
   3.71-3.72 (3H, d), 6.59 (2H, s), 7.98-8.05 (1H, m). MS (276.2, M+H)
                                                        199
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                a.          4-methoxy-2,6-dimethylbenzoic acid: 2-Bromo-5-methoxy-1,3
   dimethylbenzene (example 169b) (3.38 g , 15.79 mmol) was without further purification
   dissolved in 100 ml of dry THF. The mixture was cooled to -78 0 C and under argon n
   butyllithium (1.6 M solution in hexanes, 9.9 ml, 15,8 mmol) was added drop wise over 15
 5 min and the mixture was stirred for 15 more min at -78 0 C. Than small pieces of dry ice
   were added and the mixture was stirred 20 min at -78 0 C. Then the cooling was removed
   and the mixture was stirred as long as evolution of carbon dioxide continued. Then the
   mixture was poured over ice (100 ml) and acidified using 6N HCl. The organic layer was
   separated and water phase was extracted with EtOAc. Organic extracts were combined,
10 washed with brine, water, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated under vacuum. The product
   4-methoxy-2,6-dimethylbenzoic acid was obtained as a white solid (2.7 g, 95%). (M+H,
   181).
                b.          2-Bromo-5-methoxy-1,3-dimethylbenzene : 20 mmol of 1-methoxy-3,5
   dimethylbenzene (2.82 ml) was dissolved in 100 ml of dry acetonitrile followed by 22
15 mmol (3.56 g) of N-bromosuccinimide. The mixture was stirred at room temperature
   overnight. Then the solvent vas evaporated under reduced pressure and a solid was filtered
   off and washed with hexanes providing 2-bromo-5-methoxy-1,3-dimethylbenzene (3.9 g,
   92%) as white solid. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 2.41 (6H, s), 3.78 (3H, s), 6.67 (2H,
   s).
20              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 2.1 pM.
   Example 170
   (R)-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)furan-3-carboxamide
                       0
                  IT,
              HN         O
25              To a solution of furan-3-carboxylic acid (100 mg, 0.68 mmol), HOBt (240 mg, 1.78
   mmol) and EDCI-HCl (196 mg, 1.03 mmol) in CH2Cl2 (8 mL) and DMF (1.5 mL) at 0 0 C,
   was added (R)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-amine (160 p L, 1.06 mmol). The reaction
   was stirred at rt for 24h, after which CH2Cl2 was added. The resulting solution was washed
                                                      200
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   with saturated NaHCO3, H20, brine, dried over MgSO4 and concentrated in vacuo.
   Recrystallization from EtOH/H20 afforded (R)-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)-2,5
   dihydrofuran-3-carboxamide. 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 1.89 (m, 3H), 2.12 (m, 1H),
   2.84 (m, 2H), 5.35 (m, 1H), 5.96 (br d, 1H, J= 7.75 Hz), 6.59 (dd, 1H, J= 1.90, 0.86 Hz),
 5 7.13 (m, 1H), 7.19 (m, 2H), 7.32 (m, 1H), 7.43 (t, 1H, J= 1.73 Hz), 7.93 (m, 1H).
   MS(M+H, 242).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 6.6 pM.
   Example 171
10 (R)-5-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide
                 N-O
                Prepared in a similar manner to Example 170 using 5-methylisoxazole-4-carboxylic
   acid. Purified by preparative TLC (5:1 Hex:EtOAc). 'H NMR (500 MHz, CDCl3): 6 1.80
   (m, 3H), 2.12 (m, 1H), 2.74 (s, 3H), 2.85 (m, 2H), 5.35 (m, 1H), 5.89 (br d, 1H, J = 7.75
15 Hz), 7.10 (m, 1H), 7.18 (m, 2H), 7.32 (m, 1H), 8.26 (s, 1H). MS(M+H, 257).
                The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 8.1 pM.
   Example 172
   N-(4-chloro-2-methylphenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                    0
        20                                 CI
      20                              Me
                To a solution of isoindoline (238 mg, 2.0 mmol) in dry 1,4-dioxane (10 mL) was
   added 4-chloro-2-methylphenyl isocyanate (335 mg, 2.0 mmol) under argon at room
   temperature. The reaction mixture was then stirred at RT overnight. The solvent was
   evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by recrystallization from
25 ethanol to give the title compound (540 mg, 94 %) as a white solid. IH NMR (500 MHz,
                                                    201
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

    DMSO-d6): 6 2.24 (s, 2H), 4.76 (s, 4H), 7.20 (dd, J = 2.5, 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.27 (d, J = 2.5 Hz,
    1H), 7.30-7.32 (m, 2H), 7.34-7.37 (m, 2H), 7.42 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (s, 1H);              13C
    NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 17.7, 51.9, 122.8, 125.6, 126.8, 127.3, 128.1, 129.5, 134.7, 136.8,
    154.2; MS(MH+, 287); EA calc'd for C16H15ClN20: C, 67.02; H, 5.27; N, 9.77; Found C,
  5 66.82; H, 5.41; N, 9.92.
                 The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 0.89 pM.
    Example 173
    N-(4-methoxy-2-methylphenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                          OMe
                           o  N
                                       Me
10
                 To a solution of isoindoline (576 mg, 4.0 mmol) in dry 1,4-dioxane (20 mL) was
    added 4-methoxy-2-methylphenyl isocyanate (815 mg, 5.0 mmol) under argon at room
    temperature. The reaction mixture was then stirred at RT overnight. The solvent was
    evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue was purified by chromatography on
15  silica gel (EtOAc/hexanes: 1:1) to give the title compound (1.18 g, 84 %) as a white solid.
    1H   NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 2.19 (s, 3H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 4.73 (s, 4H), 6.72 (dd, J                = 2.5
    Hz, 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.78 (d, J             = 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.30-7.32 (m, 2H),
    7.34-7.36 (m, 2H), 7.74 (s, 1H),              13C NMR (DMSO-d6): 6 18.2, 51.9, 55.1, 110.9, 115.1,
    122.8, 127.2, 127.8, 130.6, 135.1, 137.0, 154.9, 156.5; MS(MH+, 283); EA calc'd for
20  C17H18N202:            C, 72.32; H, 6.43; N, 9.92; Found C, 72.16; H, 6.82; N, 9.98.
                 The compound had an EC 5 o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
    expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 4.5 pM.
    Example 174
    N-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
25
                          0          /    0
                     N        N'N:        O
                              H
                                                             202
    10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

                To a solution of 3,4-(methylenedioxy)aniline (150 mg, 1.09 mmol) in dry DCM (4
   mL) was added dropwise phenyl chloroformate (0.138 ml, 1.09 mmol) and triethylamine
   (0.153 ml, 1.09 mmol). After the reaction mixture was stirred at r.t for 8 hr., isoindoline
   (0.123 ml, 1.09 mmol) and triethylamine (0.153 ml, 1.09 mmo ) were added, and the
 5 reaction mixture was stirred overnight. The solvent was then removed under reduced
   pressure, and the residue was purified by chromatographed on silica gel (EtOAC/Hexane:
   1:3) to give the title compound (185 mg, 60%) as a white solid: m.p:165-166 0 C. 'H NMR
   (CDCl3, 500 MHz ): 4.82 ( s, 4H ); 5.93 ( s, 2H ); 6.20 ( s, 1H ); 6.73 (s, 2H ); 7.17 ( s, 1H
   ); 7.30 ( m, 4H ). MS (MH+, 283).
10              The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
   expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 1.05 pM.
   Example 175
   3-Methyl-isoxazole-4-carboxylic acid (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-naphthalen-1-yl)-amide.
                              N-O
                          HN        0
15              To a solution of 3-Methyl-isoxazole-4-carboxylic acid (0.52 g, 4.06 mmol) in DCM
   (15 mL) and DMF (2 mL), was added HOBt (1.1 g, 8.14 mmol) and EDCI (0.896 g 4.67
   mmol). The clear yellow solution was cooled to 0 C and allowed to stir under Ar for 15
   minutes. To the solution was added (R)-1-Amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (0.73 mL,
   5.04 mmoland the reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to ambient temperature
20 and was stirred for overnight. Dilution with DCM (50 mL) was followed by aqueous
   extraction (NaHCO3 water, brine (50 mL), drying over MgSO4, filtration and removal of
   solvent in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography (0 - 25% Hexane:EtOAc) afforded the title
   compound (650 mg; 62.5 %) as a sticky solid. 'H NMR (CDCl3) 6 1.88 (m, 3H), 2.12 (m,
   1H), 2.51 (s, 3H), 2.81 (m, 2H), 5.32 (m, 1H), 5.99 (bd, 1H), 7.13 (m, 1H), 7.20 (m, 2H)
25 7.20 (m, 2H);           13C    NMR (CDCl3) 6 11.22, 20.15, 29.41, 30.35, 47.93, 116.73, 126.72,
   127.88, 128.88, 129.65, 136.25, 138.00, 158.45, 160.28. ESIMS: 257 (M*H) EA calc'd for
   C15H16N202:            C, 70.29; H, 6.29; N, 10.93; found C, 70.61; H, 6.11; N, 11.09.
                                                         203
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

               The compound had an EC5o for activation of a hTlR2/hTlR3 sweet receptor
  expressed in an HEK293 cell line of 5.8pM.
  Numerous amide compounds of Formula (I) were also synthesized and experimentally
  tested for effectiveness as activator of a hTlR2/hTlR3 "sweet" receptor expressed in an
5 HEK293 cell line.
  The results of that testing are shown below in Table E.
                                                 204
  10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                        Sweet  Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                   EC 5 o EC5 o EC5 o
      No.
                                                                        uM     uM    ratio
                                           0
                                                N
                                                H
      El                                   OH                           0.19
                                  CI
                             3-chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(2-methyl-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                         0
                                             N
                                             H
      E2                                 OH                             0.65
                                  CI
                             (R)-3 -chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 /\               0
                                                HN
      E3                     C1.03
                                                        \/           OH
                             3-chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(5-hydroxy-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 / \              p
                                                HN
                             CI           OH               --  _
      E4                                                                1.61
                             3-chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(4-methyl-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                              205
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                 Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                            EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                 uM    uM    ratio
                                            0
                                                 N
                                                 H
      E5                                                                         1.61
                                            OH                         0
                                  CI
                             3-chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(6-methoxy-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                           0
      E6
                                  N             N
                                                H
                                                H                                1.48
                             3 -methyl-N-(2-methyl- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                              1-yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide
                                         0
                                              N
                                              H
      E7                                 OH                                      1.81        4.04
                                         OH
                                 CI
                             3 -chloro-2-hydroxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                            0
                                                 N
                                                 H
      E8                                    OH                                   1.98
                                  OH
                             2,3 -dihydroxy-N-(2-methyl- 1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                             206
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                 Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                            ECo   EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                 uM    uM    ratio
                                            0
                                                N
      E9                                        H                                2.36
                                            OH
                             2-hydroxy-N-(2-methyl- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                              1-yl)benzamide
                                            0
                                                                      0
                                                N
                                                H
      ElO                                                                        2.44
                                            OH
                                   OH
                             2,3-dihydroxy-N-(5-methoxy-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                            0
                                                N
      El                     N                  H2.46
                             3 -methyl-N-(4-methyl- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                              1-yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide
                                          0
                                              NH
                                   N
      E12                    N\                                                  2.85
                                 0
                             N-(5-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1 -yl)-3
                             methylisoxazole-4-carboxamide
                                                             207
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                  Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                             EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                  uM    uM    ratio
                                        0
                                            N
                                            H
      E13                                                         2.91
                                 CI
                             (S)-3-chloro-2-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                        O
                                            N
      E14                                   H                     2.91
                             (S)-2,6-dimethyl-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 Cl     0
                                            N
      E15                                   H                     3.02
                             2,6-dichloro-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 Cl     0
                                            N
                                            H
      E16                                                         3.04
                                 CI      I
                             3,6-dichloro-2-methoxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                             208
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                               Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                          EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                               uM    uM    ratio
                                        0
                                            H
      E17                               OH           N                         3.13
                                 OH
                             (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                              1-yl)benzamide
                                                 0
                             HO                       N
      E18                                             H                        3.38
                                                 OH
                             2,5-dihydroxy-N-(5-methoxy-1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                        0
                                            N
                                            H
      E19                    (                                                 3.57
                                 F
                             (S)-3-fluoro-2-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                 O      0
                                            N
                                            H
      E20                             O                                        4.13
                                 CI      I
                             (S)-3-chloro-2,6-dimethoxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                             209
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                              Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                         EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                              uM    uM    ratio
                                            0
                             N                    N
                                                  H
      E21                                                                     4.19
                                   Br
                             (R)-5-bromo-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
                             yl)nicotinamide
                                         0
                                            N
                                            H
      E22                                                                     4.52
                                 CI
                             (R)-3-chloro-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                         0
                                            N""
                                            H
      E23                                                                     4.86
                                 F
                             (R)-3 -fluoro-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen- 1
                             yl)benzamide
                                               0
                             HO                     N0
      E24                                           H                         6.04
                                               OH
                             (R)-2,5-dihydroxy-N-(1,2,3,4
                             tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)benzamide
                                                              210
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                              Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                         EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                              uM    uM    ratio
                                          0
                                    /N        NW
      E25                    N779
                                 0
                             (R)-3-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
                             yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide
                                          0
                                 /
                                 N           N VV
      E26                                    H                                8.09
                                 o
                             (R)-5-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen
                             1-yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide
                                       F
                                              F
                                                  H
                                                  N
      E27                    F                                                0.14
                                       F      0
                             2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methyl-N-(3 -methylbutan-2
                             yl)benzamide
                                       F
                                              F
                                                  H
                                                  N
      E28                    F                                                0.21
                                       F      0
                             N-(3,3-dimethylbutan-2-yl)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
                             methylbenzamide
                                   F       -          NH
                                   F 0'
      E29                    F          O                                     0.42
                                   F           0
                             N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)-3
                             (trifluoromethoxy)benzamide
                                                             211
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                  Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                             ECo   EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                  uM    uM    ratio
                                         F
                                                  H
      E30                    CI                   N                               0.45
                                               0
                             3-chloro-5-fluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                           F
                                                    F
                                                         H
      E31                    F                           N                        0.49
                                           F        0
                             (R)-N-(3,3-dimethylbutan-2-yl)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
                             methylbenzamide
                                   F
                                F                     H
                                                      N
      E32                    F        F          o                                0.51
                             4-fluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)-3
                             (trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                             CI
                                 cI          HN
      E33                                                                         0.63
                                    -          0
                                          CI
                             2,5-dichloro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                        F
                                              F
                                                 H
      E34                    F          F                                         0.71
                                        F     0
                             2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-N-(hexan-2-yl)-4
                             methylbenzamide
                                                             212
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                  Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                             ECo   EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                  uM    uM    ratio
                                       CI
                                                   H
      E35                    cN                                                   0.71
                             3,5-dichloro-2,6-dimethoxy-N-(2
                             methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                H
      E36                                                                         0.72
                                            0
                             2,4,6-trimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                   H
                                                   N
                             CI
      E37                              O                                          0.77
                             3,6-dichloro-2-methoxy-N
                             (2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                       F
                                                 F
                                                     H
      E38                    F
                                       F         0
                             (S)-N-(3,3-dimethylbutan-2-yl)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4
                             methylbenzamide
                                         CI
                                             H
                                            N
      E39                                                                         0.91
                             2,6-dichloro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                            213
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                           EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                uM    uM    ratio
                                         CI
                                                    H
                                                    N
      E40                        0                                              0.95        9.77
                                                0
                             2-chloro-6-methoxy-N-(2
                             methylcyclohexyl)isonicotinamide
                                    F           F
      E41                           F           F       HN                      1.02
                             N-((2R)-bicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)-2,3,5,6
                             tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                                H
      E42                                                                       1.06
                                            0
                             N-(1 -methoxybutan-2-yl)-2,4-dimethylbenzamide
                                      F
                                             F
                                                 H
                                                 N
      E43                    F                                                  1.08
                                      F      0
                             N-(2,3 -dimethylcyclohexyl)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro
                             -4-methylbenzamide
                                          0
                                                NH
      E44                                                                       1.08
                             CI
                             2-chloro-N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)isonicotinamide
                                                             214
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                 Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                            EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                 uM    uM    ratio
                                  F          F
                                        /\        HN
      E45                                                                        1.13
                                                    0
                                  F          F
                             N-cyclohexyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                 F          F
                                           I\HN
      E46                                                                        1.25
                                      -           0
                                 F          F
                             N-cyclooctyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                         I
                                                  F
                                                       H
      E47                    FN                                                  1.25
                                         F        0
                             (R)-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methyl-N-(3-methylbutan-2
                             yl)benzamide
                                               CI
                                                    H
                                                    N
      E48                               0       O                                1.29
                             3,6-dichloro-N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)-2
                             methoxybenzamide
                                    /      \          HN
      E49                                                                        1.39
                                                      0
                             N-cycloheptyl-2,4,6-trimethylbenzamide
                                                              215
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                               Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                          EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                               uM    uM    ratio
                                                  H
      E50                                    ,                                 1.41
                             N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)-2,4,6
                             trimethylbenzamide
                                                0
      E5 1                     C1H1.49
                                          OH
                             3-chloro-N-(2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1 -yl)-2
                             hydroxybenzamide
                                /          HN
      E52                                  HN1.52
                                  -         0
                             2-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)-1-naphthamide
                                            0
                                                  NH
      E53                    F                                                 1.7
                                     CI
                             3-chloro-4-fluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                              0
                                                   NH
      E54                    C                                                 1.83        10.66
                               C
                             3,4-dichloro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                            216
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                 Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                            EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                 uM    uM    ratio
                                         0
                             N               NH
      E55                                                                        1.89
                                  Br
                             5-bromo-N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)nicotinamide
                                          0
                                                NH
      E56                                                                        1.92        2.08
                             CI
                             2-chloro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)isonicotinamide
                                    NI
      E57                                                                        1.95
                                     Cl      0
                             2-chloro-3-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                  F        F
      E58                                                                        2.23
                                           -    0
                                  F        F
                             N-cyclopentyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methylbenzamide
                                F                    H
                                                    N
      E59                    F      F           0                                2.34        2.07
                             N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)-3
                             (trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                                              217
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                               Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                          EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                               uM    uM    ratio
                                  F
                                F                    H
      E60                    F       F           0                             2.37
                             4-fluoro-N-(4-methylcyclohexyl)-3
                             (trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                F                    H
                                                     N
      E61                    F       F   F       O                             2.4
                             2-fluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)-3
                             (trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                         0
                             N               NH
      E62                                                                      2.42
                                  Br
                             5-bromo-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)nicotinamide
                                       NIN      H
      E63                                                                      2.6
                                            0
                             2,3 -dimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                         CI
                                            H
                                            N
      E64                                                                      2.77
                                  CI     0
                             2,6-dichloro-N-(2,3 -dimethylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                            218
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                              Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                         EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                              uM    uM    ratio
                                         0
                                                NH
      E65                                                                     2.83
                                    N
                             2-fluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)isonicotinamide
                                                HN     -     Q
      E66                             __                                      2.86
                                            -     0
                             N-cyclohexyl-2,4,6-trimethylbenzamide
                                          I\HN
      E67                                        0                            2.98
                                           OH
                             2-hydroxy-4-methyl-N-(4
                             methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                F                     H
                                                      N
      E68                                                                     3.03  0.33
                                  F F
                             N-(heptan-4-yl)-3 -(trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                      F
                                              F
      E69                                                                     3.19
                                      F       0
                             2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-N-isobutyl-4-methylbenzamide
                                                               219
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                               Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                          EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                               uM    uM    ratio
                                     F
                                               F
      E70                    F     N3.2
                                     F         0
                             2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-4-methyl-N-(5-methylhexan-2
                             yl)benzamide
                             o   NHN
      E71                                                                      3.33
                                             -      0
                             N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzo[c][1,2,5]oxadiazole-5
                             carboxamide
                                                      H
                                                      N
      E72                                OH                                    3.35
                             2-hydroxy-3-methoxy-N-(4
                             methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                 HN
      E73                                                                      3.36
                             Thiophene-2-carboxylic acid (1,3,3-trimethyl
                             bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-2-yl)-amide
                                     F
                                                      H
                             F                        N
                                                   0
      E74                    F                 F                               3.62
                                     F
                             N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)-2
                             (perfluorophenyl)acetamide
                                                             220
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                  Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                             EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                  uM    uM    ratio
                                                   H
                                                   N
      E75                                                                         3.78
                                       CI      0
                             2,3 -dichloro-N-(pentan-3 -yl)benzamide
                                                   H
      E76                                          N                              3.99
                                       CI      0
                             2,3 -dichloro-N-(2,3 -dimethylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                 F
                                             H
      E77                                    N                                    4.11
                                 F        0
                             N-(2,3-dimethylcyclohexyl)-2,5-difluorobenzamide
                                                 0
                                    CI
                                                     N
      E78                    C1                                                   4.24  8.51
                                       S    N
                             4,5-Dichloro-isothiazole-3-carboxylic acid (2-methyl
                             cyclohexyl)-amide
                                         OH
                                             H
                                   N         N
      E79                                                                         4.28
                                 OH      0
                             N-(2,4-dimethylpentan-3-yl)-2,6
                             dihydroxybenzamide
                                                              221
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                               Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                          EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                               uM    uM    ratio
                                                  H
                                                  N
      E80                                                                      4.29
                                              0
                             3-chloro-2-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                            0
                                                 NH
      E81                    F         /                                       4.37        6.98
                                      F
                             3,4-difluoro-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                                                H
      E82                                       N                              4.48
                             3,5-dimethyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide
                             NN
                                 N'I
      E83                                0                                     4.68
                             N-(4-ethoxyphenethyl)-1-methyl-iH-pyrazole-5
                             carboxamide
                                              CI
                                                         F
                                                  H
                             CIN
      E84                                                                      0.83        16.51
                             3,6-dichloro-N-(2-fluorophenyl)-2
                             methoxybenzamide
                                                             222
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                        Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                   EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                        uM    uM    ratio
                                                      ci            0
                                     F
                             F
                                                       N
      E85                       F                      H                1.42
                             N-(2-Chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-phenyl)-3
                             trifluoromethyl-benzamide
                                   CI
                             \e          / \      HN
      E86                                 -                             1.48
                                   CI
                             3,5-dichloro-N-(2,4-dimethylphenyl)-4
                             methoxybenzamide
                                                                  F
                                                0        N            F
                             cIN                                  F
      E87                                           H                   1.55
                              F
                             3-Chloro-4-fluoro-N-(5-trifluoromethyl
                             [1,3,4]thiadiazol-2-yl)-benzamide
                                   CI
                                   \   /    \     HN
      E88                       0                                       1.84
                                              -     0
                                   CI
                             3,5-dichloro-4-methoxy-N-o-tolylbenzamide
                                                             223
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                 Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                            EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                 uM    uM    ratio
                                                                  F
                                 OH        0
                                                N
                                                H
      E89                                                F                       2.56
                                 CI
                             5-Chloro-N-(2,4-difluoro-phenyl)-2-hydroxy
                             benzamide
                                      ci       0
                                                   N                 F
      E90                                          H                             2.71
                             CI
                                                            N
                             2,4-Dichloro-N-(2-cyano-3 -fluoro-phenyl)-benzamide
                                                                    ,N
                                 CI       0
      E91                                      N                                 2.74
                                               H
                                          CI
                             2,6-Dichloro-N-(4-cyano-phenyl)-benzamide
                                             O
                                                  NH
      E92                    c                                                   2.74
                             4-chloro-N-(2,4-dimethylphenyl)-3-methylbenzamide
                                                            224
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                            Sweet Umami Umami
            Copud           Compound                                        EC5o  EC50  EC50
      No.
                                                                            uM    uM    ratio
                                    0             HN-a
      E93                                          0                        3.24
                                  CI
                            3 ,5-dichloro-4-methoxy-N-(4
                            methoxyphenyl)benzamide
                                             0
                                                 NH
                            F
      E94                             ci             1.                     3.56
                                               ~~0
                            3 -chloro-N-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-4
                            fluorobenzamide
                                                         N         S
                                           H
      E95                                                          -ZZ.3.58
                            5-Cyano-2,4-dimethyl-6-methylsulfanyl-N-phenyl
                            nicotinamide
                                           0
      E96                     -N
                                                H                           37
                            N-(4-tert-Butyl-thiazol-2-yl)-isonicotinamide
                                                             225
10392499_1(GHM~et-) P59273.AJ.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                             Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                        ECo   EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                             uM    uM    ratio
                             CI
                                                     N
      E97                                            H                       4.25
                                                 CI
                             3,6-Dichloro-N-(2,4-dimethyl-phenyl)-2-methoxy
                             benzamide
                                            H
      E98                                   N                                4.63
                                 0       0
                             N-(3 -ethylphenyl)-2-methoxy-6-methylbenzamide
                                              ~~N            /      Br
      E99                                   N                                0.93
                             N-(4-bromo-2,6-dimethylphenyl)isoindoline-2
                             carboxamide
                                                                      0
      El00                       0r        N                 /        0      1.3
                             N-(2-methyl-4-nitrophenyl)isoindoline-2
                             carboxamide
                                                      F
                                                HN                  F
      ElO                                  NF1.37
                             N-(2,4-difluorophenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                             226
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                           EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                                uM    uM    ratio
                                                                  0
                                                   H              11
      E102                                                             0-       2.01
                             N-(2-methyl-3-nitrophenyl)isoindoline-2
                             carboxamide
                                                       F        F
      E103                                      N/                   F          2.58
                             N-(2,3,4-trifluorophenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                 HN-0
      E104                          C        N-                                 3.05
                             N-p-tolylisoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                 HN       aCI
      E105                                  N                                   3.4
                             N-(4-chlorophenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                      CI
      E106                                            -N                        3.85
                             N-(2-chlorophenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                      CI
                                                 HN                  CI
      E107                                                    /N     C          4.15
                             N-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                             227
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

      Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                             Sweet Umami Umami
      Compound
                             Compound                                        EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
      No.
                                                                             uM    uM    ratio
                                                HN                    b
      E108                                  N      O                   b     4.99
                             N-(4-methoxyphenyl)isoindoline-2-carboxamide
                                                      C1
                                                 HN\                 C1
      E109                                   N   {                           2.34
                             N-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
                             2(1H)-carboxamide
                                                     N
      EllO                                       HN                          2.5
                                             N
                                   Ct              0
                             N-(2-cyanophenyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)
                             carboxamide
                                                 HN
      EIll                                                                   4.27
                             N-p-tolyl-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)
                             carboxamide
                                                                C1
                                                 HN\/b
      E112                                   N                               4.33
                             N-(3 -chloro-2-methylphenyl)-3,4
                             dihydroisoquinoline-2(1H)-carboxamide
                                                             228
10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

         Table E - Sweet EnhancerAmides
                                                                                Sweet Umami Umami
         Compound
                                Compound                                        EC5o  EC5o  EC5o
         No.
                                                                                uM    uM    ratio
                                        \ /       HN0
         E113                     \ /            N                              444
                                                    0
                                N-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline
                                2(1H)-carboxamide
   Sweet Flavor and Sweet Flavor Enhancement Measurement Using Human Panelists
   Purpose: To investigate the intensity of various tastes and off-tastes of an experimental
   compound. To determine the maximum concentration of the experimental compound that
   does not elicit an undesirable characteristic or off-taste.
 5 Overview: Various concentrations of the experimental compound (normally aqueous
   solutions containing 1, 3, 10, and 30uM concentrations of the experimental compound; and
   optionally 50uM and/or 1OOuM concentrations) are individually tasted by trained human
   subjects and rated for intensity of several taste attributes. The experimental compound
   may also be tasted when dissolved in a "key tastant" solution.
10 Procedure: An appropriate quantity of the experimental compound is dissolved in water
   typically also containing 0.1% ethanol, which is utilized to aid initial dispersion of the
   compound in the aqeuous stock solution. When appropriate, the experimental compound
   may also be dissolved in aqueous solutions of a "key tastant" (for example, 4% sucrose,
   6% sucrose, 6% fructose/glucose, or 7% fructose/glucose, at pH 7.1 or 2.8).
15 Five human Subjects are used for preliminary taste tests. The Subjects have a
   demonstrated ability to taste the desired taste attributes, and are trained to use a Labeled
   Magnitude Scale (LMS) from 0 (Barely Detectible Sweetness) to 100 (Strongest
   Imaginable Sweetness). Subjects refrain from eating or drinking (except water) for at least
   1 hour prior to the test. Subjects eat a cracker and rinse with water four times to clean the
20 mouth before taste tests.
   The aqueous solutions are dispensed in 10 ml volumes into 1 oz. sample cups and served to
   the Subjects at room temperature. Samples of the experimental compound dissolved in an
                                                              229
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   appropriate key tastant (e.g., 4% sucrose, 6% fructose, or 6% fructose/glucose, typically at
   pH 7.1) at various concentrations of the experimental compound may also be served to the
   Subjects. Subjects also receive a reference sample of the key tastant (e.g., sucrose,
   fructose, or fructose/glucose, typically at pH 7.1) at different concentrations for
 5 comparison.
   Subjects taste the solutions, starting with the lowest concentration, and rate intensity of the
   following attributes on the Labeled Magnitude Scale (LMS) for sweetness, saltiness,
   sourness, bitterness, savory (umami), and other (off-taste). Subjects rinse three times with
   water between tastings. If a particular concentration elicits an undesirable characteristic or
10 off-taste, subsequent tastings of higher concentrations are eliminated. After a break,
   Subjects taste a solution of the key tastant (e.g., 4% sucrose, 6% fructose, or 6%
   fructose/glucose, typically at pH 7.1) without the experimental compound. Then solutions
   of the key tastant plus experimental compound are tasted in increasing order of
   concentration. The key tastant solution can be retasted for comparison with key tastant +
15 experimental compound solutions if necessary. Discussion among panelists is permitted.
   The maximum concentration of an experimental compound that does not elicit an
   objectionable characteristic or off-taste is the highest concentration that a particular
   compound will be tested at in subsequent sensory experiments. To confirm preliminary
   test results, the test may be repeated with another small group of panelists.
20 The preliminary profiling test is always the first test performed on a new experimental
   compound. Depending on the results of the preliminary profiling test, additional more
   quantitative tests may be performed to further characterize the experimental compound.
   "Difference from Reference" Human Taste Test Procedures
   Purpose: To determine how the intensity of a test sample of an experimental compound
25 differs from that of a reference sample in terms of sweetness. This type of study requires a
   larger panel (typically 15-20 Subjects) in order to obtain statistically significant data.
   Overview: A group of 10 or more panelists taste pairs of solutions where one sample is the
   "Reference" (which typically does not include an experimental compound and is an
   approved substance or Generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS) substance, i.e., a sweetener)
30 and one sample is the "Test" (which may or may not include an experimental compound).
   Subjects rate the difference in intensity of the test sample compared tothe reference sample
   for the key attribute on a scale of -5 (much less sweet than the reference) to +5 (much
                                                  230
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   more sweet than the reference). A score of 0 indicates the test sample is equally as sweet
   as the reference.
   Procedure:
   Ten or more Subjects are used for the "Difference from Reference" tests. Subjects have
 5 been previously familiarized with the key attribute taste and are trained to use the -5 to +5
   scale. Subjects refrain from eating or drinking (except water) for at least 1 hour prior to
   the test. Subjects eat a cracker and rinse with water four times to clean the mouth.
   Test solutions can include the experimental compound in water, the experimental
   compound plus a key tastant (e.g., 4% sucrose, 6% sucrose, 6% fructose, 6%
10 fructose/glucose, or 7% fructose/glucose, at pH 7.1 or 2.8), and a range of key tastant only
   solutions as references.
   Samples of the key tastant without the experimental compound are used to determine if the
   panel is rating accurately; i.e., the reference is tested against itself (blind) to determine how
   accurate the panel is rating on a given test day. The solutions are dispensed in 10 ml
15 volumes into 1 oz. sample cups and served to the Subjects at room temperature.
   Subjects first taste the reference sample then immediately taste the test sample and rate the
   difference in intensity of the key attribute on the Difference from Reference scale (-5 to
   +5). All samples are expectorated. Subjects may retaste the samples but can only use the
   volume of sample given. Subjects must rinse at least twice with water between pairs of
20 samples. Eating a cracker between sample pairs may be required depending on the
   samples tasted.
   The scores for each test are averaged across Subjects and standard error is calculated.
   Panel accuracy can be determined using the score from the blind reference test. ANOVA
   and multiple comparison tests (such as Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference test) can
25 be used to determine differences among pairs, provided the reference sample is the same
   among all tests. If the identical test pair is tested in another session, a Student's t-test
   (paired, two-tailed; alpha = 0.05) can be used to determine if there is any difference in the
   ratings between sessions.
   A number of different reference sweeteners have been utilized for the measurement of
30 sweet taste enhancement. For example, for testing (R)-3-methyl-N-(1,2,3,4
   tetrahydronaphthalen- 1-yl)isoxazole-4-carboxamide, a reference sample consisting of 4%
   sucrose was used, which has a greater than the threshold level sweetness (i.e., 2% sucrose),
                                                   231
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   and a sweetness in the region of sweet taste perception where human subjects are most
   sensitive to small changes in sweet taste perception. For the testing of 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro
   4-methyl-N-(2-methylcyclohexyl)benzamide, a 50:50 mix of fructose:glucose was used to
   better model high fructose corn syrup solutions commonly utilized in the beverage
 5 industry. A 6% fructose/glucose mixture was demonstrated to be approximately equal in
   sweet taste perception as 6% sucrose, which is within the range where panelists are
   sensitive to small changes in sweet taste perception. After initial studies in 6%
   fructose/glucose at pH 7.1, studies shift to evaluating the performance of the compound in
   a product prototype more similar to a cola beverage, i.e. higher concentrations of
10 sweetener and lower pH.
   The results of some human taste tests of the sweet amide compounds of the invention in
   aqueous compositions intended to model the composition of a carbonated beverage are
   shown below in Table F
                Table F. Sweet Taste Test Results
   Compound                   Contents of Solution       pH       Perceived Equivalent
   No.                                                            Sweet Solution
   174                        50 uM Compound 174         *        6% sucrose
                               + 4% sucrose
   171                        30 uM Compound 171         *        Greater than 6% but less than
                              + 6% fructose/glucose               8% fructose/glucose
   170                                                   pH 7.1   Greater than 6% but less than
                              30 uM Compound 170                  8% fructose/glucose
                              + 6% fructose/glucose
   162                         10 uM Compound 162        pH 7.1   Greater than or equal to
                               + 6% fructose/glucose              8% fructose/glucose
   162                         10 uM Compound 162        pH 2.8   Greater than or equal to
                               + 7% fructose/glucose               9% fructose/glucose
   168                        30 uM Compound 168         pH 7.1   Equal to 8% fructose/glucose
                               + 6% fructose/glucose
                                                     232
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   163                         10 uM Compound 163        pH 7.1  Greater than 6% but less than
                               + 6% fructose/glucose             8% fructose/glucose
   *   The pH of these aqeous solutions was not measured or controlled.
   Example 176
   Soup Preparation Using an Ethanol Stock Solution
 5 A compound of the invention is diluted using 200 proof ethanol to 1000x the desired
   concentration in soup. The compound can be sonicated and heated (if stable) to ensure
   complete solubility in ethanol. The soup from bouillon base is made by adding 6 g of
   vegetable bouillon base in 500 mL of hot water in a glass or stoneware bowl. The water is
   heated to 80'C. The concentration of MSG in the dissolved bouillon is 2.2 g/L and there is
10 no IMP added. After the bouillon base is dissolved, the ethanol stock solution is added to
   the soup base. For 500 mL of soup, 0.5 mL of the 1000x ethanol stock is added for a final
   ethanol concentration of 0.1 %. If the ethanol interferes with the taste of the soup, a higher
   concentration of ethanol stock solution can be prepared provided the compound is soluble.
   Example 177
15 Chip Preparation
   A salt mixture of a compound of the invention is made by mixing with salt such that a
   1.4% of the salt mixture added w/w to chips would result in the desired concentration of
   the compound. For 1 ppm final of the compound on chips, 7 mg of the compound is mixed
   with 10 g of salt. The compound is ground using a mortar and pestle with the salt and the
20 compound and salt are mixed well. The chips are broken into uniform small pieces by
   using a blender. For each 98.6 g of chips, 1.4 g of the salt mixture is weighed out. The
   chip pieces are first heated in a microwave for 50 seconds or until warm. The pieces are
   spread out on a large piece of aluminum foil. The salt mixture is spread evenly over the
   chips. The chips are then placed in a plastic bag making sure that all the salt is place in the
25 bag as well. The salt mixture and chips are then shaken to ensure that the salt is spread
   evenly over the chips.
   Example 178
                                                     233
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

    Cookie Preparation
    A compound of the invention is diluted using 200 proof ethanol to 1000x the desired
    concentration in the final product. The compound can be sonicated and heated (if stable)
    to ensure complete solubility in ethanol. The solution containing the compound of the
  5 invention is then mixed with other liquid ingredients (i.e., water, liquid egg, and
    flavorings) until well blended. The mixture is blended with a dry emulsifier such as
    lecithin and further blended with shortening. The shortening is blended with dry
    components (i.e., flour, sugar, salt, cocoa) which have been well mixed. Dough is
    portioned out onto a baking sheet, and baked at desired temperature until done.
10  Example 179
    Juice Preparation
    A compound of the invention is diluted using 200 proof ethanol to 1000x the desired
    concentration in juice. The compound is further blended with the alcohol component of
    natural and/or artificial flavors to make a "key". The flavor key is blended with a portion
15  of juice concentrate to assure homogeneity. The remainder of the juice concentrate is
    diluted with water and mixed. Sweeteners, such as HFCS (High Fructose Corn Syrup),
    aspartame, or sucralose, are mixed in and blended. The flavor/compound portion is added
    as a final step, and blended.
    Example180
20  Spicy Tomato Juice or Bloody Mary Mix
    A compound of the invention is added as a dry ingredient to the spice blend and blended
    thoroughly. Spice blend is dispersed into a portion of the tomato paste, blended, and that
    blended paste is further blended into the remaining paste. The paste is then diluted with
    water. It may be processed at high temperature for a short time.
25
    It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can
    be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the
    invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
    from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is
                                                    234
    10392499_1 (GHMaters) P59273.AU.5

   intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true
   scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
 5 does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
10 "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                   235
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

   THE CLAIMS OF THE INVENTION ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS:
                1.           An acrylamide compound of Formula (VI)
                                            0
                    1)mA                        N
            (R
                                                H
                                                         (VI),
 5        or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof; wherein
          A is 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl ring;
          m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4;
          each R1' is independently selected from alkoxyl and alkoxy-alkyl;
          R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy
10 alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, -R40H,           -R4CO2H,    and -R4C02R5,      or optionally
   substituted groups thereof;
          each R4 and R5 are independently an alkyl or cycloalkyl;
                                                                                         -o
                                                                                        O
          wherein the acrylamide compound is not selected from:             /
                              0
                 SN
                                   H
   or
15              2.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein:
          m is 0, 1, 2, or 3;
          each R1' is independently selected from alkoxyl;
          R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, and
   cycloalkyl, or optionally substituted groups thereof.
20              3.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein m is 0.
                4.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein m is 1.
                5.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein m is 2.
                6.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein m is 3.
                7.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein A is thiophene.
                                                      236
   10392499_1 (GHMatters)P59273.AU.5

                8.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein A is thiophene and m is 0.
                9.           The acrylamide compound of Claim 10, wherein each R1' is independently
   selected from alkoxyl.
                10.          The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein each RI' is independently
 5 selected from methoxy, ethoxy, and isopropoxy.
                11.          The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein R2 is selected from the
   group consisting of arylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy-alkyl, cycloalkyl, and -R4CO2R5,             or
   optionally substituted groups thereof.
                12.          The acrylamide compound of Claim 1, wherein R2 is selected from the
10 group consisting of arylalkyl, alkyl, and alkoxy-alkyl.
                13.          An acrylamide compound, or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof, which is:
                                       N
                14.          An ingestible composition comprising a compound of Formula (VI):
                                          0
           (R)mA                              N
                                              H
                                                      (VI),
15        or a comestibly acceptable salt thereof; wherein
          A is 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl ring;
          m is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4;
          each Rl' is independently selected from alkyl, alkoxyl, alkoxy-alkyl, and halogen;
          R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkyl, heteroarylalkyl, alkyl, alkoxy
20 alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, -R40H,            -R4CO2H,      and -R4C02R5,     or optionally
   substituted groups thereof; and
          each R4 and R5 are independently an alkyl or cycloalkyl;
   and a comestibly acceptable excipient.
                15.          The ingestible composition of Claim 14, wherein the composition is a food,
25 beverage, oral hygiene product, or a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration.
                                                         237
   10392499_1 (GHMatters)P59273.AU.5

                16.         The ingestible composition of Claim 14 or 15, wherein the compound is
   present in a concentration from about 0.01 ppm to about 30 ppm, from about 0.05 ppm to
   about 15 ppm, from about 0.1 ppm to about 5 ppm, or from about 0.1 ppm to about 3 ppm.
                17.         The ingestible composition of any one of Claims 14-16, wherein the
 5 composition is a food or beverage.
                18.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-17, wherein the composition is a
   beverage.
                19.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-18, wherein m is 0.
                20.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-18, wherein m is 1.
10              21.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-18, wherein m is 2.
                22.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-18, wherein m is 3.
                23.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-22, wherein A is thiophene.
                24.         The ingestible composition of Claims 14-19, wherein A is thiophene and m
   is 0.
15
                                                        238
   10392499_1 (GHMaers) P59273.AU.5

