Abstract
An electronically customizable fashion article comprising an electronic visual multi touch-sensitive
display integral with the fashion article, a sound sensor, a processor, and a communication interface
for communication between the fashion article and a network. In use, the fashion article displays
content associated with the data on the electronic visual touch-sensitive display, and allows the
displayed content to be manipulated in response to an interaction with the touch-sensitive display,
and a signal received from the sound sensor. The displayed content comprises an image, video,
colour, pattern and design. The manipulation of the displayed content comprises multiple image
merging options of adding and removing elements, image layering, and modifications including
colour, colour depth, brightening and contrast adjustments, special effects, multiple image merging,
softening options, sharpening abilities, image enhancing, selective colour changing, cropping, and
size adjustments. Also the communication comprises connecting to an I/O device, and receive data
from the I/O device.

                                                1
           ELECTRONICALLY CUSTOMIZABLE ARTICLES
                   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]          This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No.
61/742,884, which was filed on August 21, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference
in its entirety.
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]          This disclosure relates to electronically customizable articles.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0003]          Most current article options limit consumers to one design or one color
and do not provide the option of personalizing the article. Thus, users are forced to
collect different articles to meet each wardrobe, home d6cor, and social event
requirement.     This can be expensive.      Existing options currently on the market that
allow for some color, design, and/or style versatility of an article are interchangeable
shells, reversible items, and a small selection of interchangeable fabrics. These existing
options provide limited color and design versatility for consumers.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0004]          FIG. 1 illustrates an example environment of the present disclosure for
setting or changing the outer appearance of an electronically customizable article.
[0005]          FIGs. 2A-2B illustrate example electronically customizable articles.
[0006]          FIG. 3 illustrates an example computer system which may be used with
some embodiments of the present invention.
[0007]          FIG. 4 shows a schematic representation of the main components of an
example computing platform.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0008]          Systems and methods of this disclosure allow a user to set or change the
outer    appearance     of  an   electronically   customizable  article  (e.g.,  a handbag).

                                             2
Implementations of the electronically customizable articles can include an electronic
visual display such as a flat panel display to display a user-selected or created color,
design, pattern, image, slideshow, video, or other electronic visual display on the
exterior of the article.
[0009]         In some implementations, the electronic visual display can form an outer
surface of the article. In some implementation, the electronic visual display is integral
with the article.      In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be
removable from the article.
[0010]          In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a flexible
digital display canvas. In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a
touch screen. In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a liquid
crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED), organic light-emitting diode (OLED),
interferometric modulator display (IMOD), or plasma, electronic display screen, or any
other present or future developed electronic display screen technology.
[0011]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can serve
as a computing device such as a laptop, a smartphone, a mobile telephone, a tablet-style
computer, or any other handheld electronic device           In some implementations, the
electronically customizable article includes an operating system (OS) and can be
configured to run one or more application software. In some implementations, the
electronically customizable article can include Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and GPS capabilities to,
among other things, allow the electronically customizable article to connect to the
Internet and other Bluetooth-capable devices.
[0012]         Implementations of this disclosure can include hardware and software to
create a user interface for a user to select or create a visual display to be displayed on
the   electronically customizable article.     The hardware and software for the user
interface can be included in the electronically customizable article, a separate
computing device, or on a remote server in combination with either the electronically
customizable article or a separate computing device. The hardware and software for
the graphical user interface are configured to permit the user to select, create, or edit

                                             3
images, designs, colors,       patterns, and   video or media content.            In some
implementations, the software for the user interface can be downloaded to the
electronically customizable article.
[00131         In some implementations, the hardware and software for the graphical
user interface are configured to permit the user to manipulate images through, for
example, color, color depth, brightening and contrast adjustments, special effects,
multiple image merging, softening options, sharpening abilities, image enhancing,
image rotating, selective color changing, options of adding and removing elements,
cropping, size and orientation adjustments (e.g. landscape or portrait format) and image
layering.
[0014]         In some implementations, the hardware and software for the graphical
user interface are configured to permit the user to animate portions of a still image (e.g.,
object in continuous motion with still background).
[0015]          In some implementations, the hardware and software for the graphical
user interface are configured to permit the user to add lighting-show to still image (e.g.,
pulsating or flashing light emitted from portions of the image) with transfer and display
lighting effect images to article.
[0016]         In implementations where the hardware and software for the user
interface or a portion thereof is embodied in a separate computing device or remote
server, the user-selected or created display may be transferred to the electronically
customizable article via a wire-based or wireless network. In some implementations,
the wireless network can include a WI-FI network, a wireless cellular network, a Wi
Max network, a long-range wireless data network, an ad hoc network, a personal area
network (PAN) (such as BLUETOOTH), a local area network (LAN), a wide area
network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), one or more portions of the
Internet, or a combination of two or more of these networks. In some implementations,
the user-selected or created display can be transferred to the electronically customizable
article via cable or connectors (e.g., USB cables) or a storage medium such as a flash
drive, memory card, or other data storage device.

                                               4
[0017]        FIGs. 2A-2B illustrate example electronically customizable articles 200A,B
respectively. The electronically customizable articles 200A, B can include an electronic
visual display 210A, B such as a flat panel display to display a user-selected or created
electronic visual display.        The electronic visual display         on the electronically
customizable article may be user-created,            downloaded from a remote server,
transferred from a local computing device or portable storage media, ordered, or a pre
existing image stored locally (e.g., in the electronically customizable articles) or
remotely, for example.
[0018]        In alternative implementations, the electronically customizable article
200A, B can be shoes, all types of purses, bags, hats, belts, bracelets, necklaces, earrings,
rings, scarves, sunglass and eyeglass frames, gloves, clothing apparel, backpacks, book
covers, portfolio cases, ties, bow ties, cufflinks, wallets, laptop lids, name tags, suitcases,
briefcases, laptop bags, head phones, head bands and other hair accessories, pet collars,
pet leashes, and other pet accessories, undergarments, watches, furniture, luggage,
lamps, picture frames, lunch boxes, socks, beverage sleeves, dishware plates, bowls and
silverware, key chains, skateboards, roller skates, bikes, all occasion decorations and
centerpieces, all writing utensils, all clothing and outerwear and phone and other small
electronic cases.
[0019]        In some implementations, the electronic visual display can form an outer
surface of the article. In some implementations, all, substantially all, or a portion of the
exterior view of the electronically customizable article may comprise an electronic
visual display to customize all, substantially all, or a portion of the electronically
customizable article, respectively.
[0020]        In some implementations, the electronic visual display (e.g., 210A,B) can
be integral with the electronically customizable article. In some implementations, the
electronic visual display can be removable from the article.
[0021]        In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a flexible
digital display canvas. In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a
touch screen. In some implementations, the electronic visual display can be a liquid

                                             5
crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED), organic light-emitting diode (OLED),
interferometric modulator display (IMOD), or plasma, electronic display screen, or any
other present or future developed electronic display screen technology.
[0022]         In some implementations, the user-selected or created display can include
a color, a design, an image, a pattern, a slideshow, a video, media content, or any other
electronic visual display. In some implementations, the user-selected or created display
can include a specific color such as a PMS, Hex, CMYK, or RGB color, or any other
color. In some implementations, the user-selected or created display can include one or
images such as a jpeg, bmp, eps, psd, gif, pdf, raw, and/or tiff image.            In some
implementations, the user can select the view (e.g., landscape or portrait) for a display.
[0023]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be
configured to rotate a display on the electronic visual display based on the position of
the electronically customizable article.    For example, in some implementations, the
electronically customizable article can include an accelerometer and/or proximity
sensors.
[0024]         In some implementations, the electronic visual display 210 may be in
multiple locations on the electronically customizable article.         In this way, the
electronically customizable article can display multiple visual images on different parts
of the electronically customizable article simultaneously. In some implementations, the
electronically customizable article can display a specified order and timing of images,
display multiple visual images on different parts of the article, display stationary
images or images in motion, designs, patterns and colors simultaneously.                The
electronically customizable article also can display a specified order and timing of
images, colors, designs, patterns, or multiple visual images simultaneously or in
synchronous with one or more other electronically customizable articles such as, for
example, shoes and a belt.
[0025]         In some implementations a time and/or date, email, or text message
notification can be displayed on the electronic visual display. Display options also may

                                             6
consist of a user selected real time news feed, a social media feed, or other informative
feeds such as stock market data.
[00261         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
display a media/video clip.
[0027]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
display video during real-time or near real-time video capture.
[0028]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
display live video images, still images, and video playback. In some implementations,
the electronically customizable article can include a built in camera to capture and/or
record the video or still images. In some implementations, the video or still images can
be transferred to the electronically customizable article. In some implementations, the
electronically customizable article can include video-teleconferencing abilities including
Skype, FaceTime and video chat capabilities.
[0029]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
display a specified order and timing of media/video clip images simultaneously or in
synchronous with one or more other electronically customizable articles such as but not
limited to shoes, belts and hats.
[00301         In some implementations, the electronic visual display may include a
backlight.
[00311         In some implementations, the electronic visual display may be located on
one or more sides of the electronically customizable article.
[0032]         In some implementations, the resolution and/or pixel definition and
aspect ratio of the electronic visual display may be dependent on the size and style of
electronically customizable article.
[00331         In   some   implementations,    the  electronic  visual  display    and/or
electronically customizable article may include glare and reflection reduction features.
[0034]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include a multi-touch screen and/or handwriting recognition capabilities.

                                             7
[00351        In some implementations, the electronic visual display maybe placed in a
locked position thereby disabling any accidental navigation while only displaying the
user's desired image.
[00361        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be
used for advertisement purposes.
[0037]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be
configured to display notifications of calendar meetings and set alarms.          In some
implementations, notifications can consist of a text display, image display, color
illumination, an audio signal, vibration, or a combination of the foregoing.
[00381        In some implementations, patterns, designs, colors, images, media content
along with other content may be ordered or downloaded to an electronically
customizable article on a fee basis purchase using financial/accounting management
systems allowing for financial arrangements and transactions such as a one-time fee,
monthly fee and or yearly subscriptions via computer and mobile applications,
computer programs, internet websites and computer software. Some features maybe
disabled such as the transfer of certain images, designs, patterns, colors and or video
content where fee purchase is required for download of material, preventing
unauthorized use of image content from designer, artist or creator of downloadable
content or material.
[00391        In some implementations, images, colors, designs, patterns and design
templates    maybe      pre-downloaded,      personally    ordered    via    software    or
computer/mobile applications on a fee basis purpose to display on the electronically
customizable article.
[0040]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
include built- in apps such as visual display touch-screen keyboard, time indicator with
alarm, weather and calendar display, built in to do list and grocery manager app,
drawing/note taking board and flashlight.
[0041]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
support   and    download    various   game     systems  e.g. Java    games.     In   some

                                            8
implementation, the electronically customizable article can include pre- downloaded
games.
[0042]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
include wireless credit card features and terminals allowing for on-device purchasing of
computer and software applications or other applications and programs, installation
and updates.
[0043]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can
include security features such as password requirements or biometric components to
operate article or certain features of article to aid in protection of confidential
information.
[0044]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can use
computer, mobile or software applications in conjunction with features of the device
such as a built in camera and video capture abilities to help color coordinate articles of
clothing with the device by visual input from the camera of the device of colors,
designs, images or patterns of a user's clothing which are then interpreted by         the
application into matching colors, designs, patterns or images that can then be displayed
on unit by use of the application.
[0045]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article is
configured to connect with a mobile device via Bluetooth connectivity, for example, to
display visual notification of incoming calls, text messages, calendar dates, email
messages or voicemail messages.
[0046]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article includes
a GPS receiver for locating unit and navigation capabilities. The GPS receiver and
transmitter can be used to track device if lost or stolen. In some implementations,
through the use of computer or mobile applications or other wireless communication
operating system, selected retail information can be relayed to the electronically
customizable article in visual and or audible notifications of information such sales,
coupons and rebates dependent on the location of the device in the vicinity of the retail
store with GPS use.

                                            9
[0047]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article includes
E-Reader capabilities for E-Books, magazines, newspapers and other reading articles on
a possible fee basis. Text and images can be displayed in formats such as, but not
limited to or required to include PDF, TXT, CHMDOC, EXEL, EPUBRTEF, and PUB.
In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be configured to
adjust the text size. In some implementations, the electronically customizable article
can be configured to vocalize the text via an audio narrator feature.
[0048]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be
powered by solar power or other sources of light, kinetic energy sources, lithium ion,
lithium ion polymer, nickel cadmium, fuel cell or nickel metal hydride battery or a
combination of the foregoing. The electronically customizable article can be recharged
through USB to computer system, power adapter, wireless electricity, battery charger,
battery charging pad or docking station. In some implementations, the electronically
customizable article may be configured to recharge other items through USB port or
other port connectivity.
[0049]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be
turned on or off and placed in different operating modes (e.g., air mode). In some
implementations, the electronically customizable article can be configured to display a
default screen in certain modes. In some implementations, the default screen can be the
screen view when the display is turned off.
[0050]        In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include battery conserving features including user operated dimming controls to
control the amount of light emitted from unit and ambient light sensors with automatic
dimming and brightening effects.          In some implementations, the electronically
customizable article can be configured to have image display time minimums, which
can vary according to specifics of displayed image, including image format and size. As
a result, image display length ranges can vary depending on the electronic visual
display.   In some implementations, the electronically customizable article can be

                                             10
configured to provide early notification of battery depletion with automatic display of
default screen when battery is below a predetermined level.
[0051]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may be
enclosed in an exterior protective transparent touch sensitive shell that is in the shape of
the article that may be clear, transparent and or translucent, waterproof, weatherproof,
flexible, shatterproof and/or scratch resistant. All parts of the article or portions of the
article maybe covered with the protective exterior shell dependent on the size, shape
and type of article. The exterior protective shell may consist of different types of
material such as plastics. Different types of material or plastics may include PVC, ABS
,vinyl, PES, PET, PE, PU, HDPE, LDPE, PP, PS, PC, MFPFPEEK and or silicone.
[0052]         The exterior of the article may include additional features such as
decorations,    ornamentation    and   or functional      hardware    features that maybe
aesthetically appealing objects such as buttons, gems, jewels, zippers, belts, handles,
straps, buckles, strings or laces, clasps, fasteners, closing devices, attachment devices,
and other different types of hardware. Different texturized coverings may be added to
some articles to help aid in the aesthetics of the article without hindering touch sensitive
features or visibility of projected images.      Hardware features may be added to the
exterior of the article to aid in visual aesthetics or for functional purposes such as
keeping device in an upright position, hanging position or viewing position or purpose.
Functional hardware may also be used for purposes of docking the article to a docking
station battery source if used or attaching device to a portable attachable keyboard that
is either separate or can be combined with docking station to make use of the device as
a laptop or personal computer format or position.
[0053]         In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include audio system components such as built in audio speakers, head phone port and
microphone with voice recording abilities, input and output voice command abilities to
process, interpret and functionalize sound, speaker phone and playback ability. In some
implementations,     the electronically customizable article may be configured to
download music content via applications.

                                              11
[0054]          In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include an audible alarm system that can be activated by user in potentially threatening
events.
[0055]          In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may be
configured to play and display various music systems e.g., mp3 player or media player.
[0056]          In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include incorporate sound sensors that can activate visual simulation of displayed
images or colors with sound e.g., displayed color changes with received sound
frequencies.
[0057]          In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
serve as an alert system for incoming calls, text messages, emails, calendar events, alarm
clock alerts, traffic alerts, car and home alarm system alerts and other alerts.
[0058]          In some implementations, the electronically customizable article may
include one or more of the following features: fingerprint scanners or other biometric
techniques (for purses, wallets, suitcases etc.), audio panic alarms, sensor activated
interior color illuminations (for purses, bags, backpacks etc.), touchscreen security code
options to open, close or operate articles, automatic closing apparatus (for purses,
backpacks, laptop bags etc.), integrated hanging apparatus (e.g. purses), elongating or
retractable adjustable straps (e.g. purses, laptop bags and backpacks), Integrated image
projectors (e.g. briefcase and phones), adjustable components of articles (e.g. the height
or heel of shoe or ability to convert style of shoe from e.g. open toe or closed toe),
cooling and warming material features on select articles( e.g. shoes), motion sensors
with visual pulse, pedometer and estimated calorie burner display on shoes with
information recording ability, adjustable cushioning in shoes to aid in comfort,
removable/ interchangeable customizing handles and inner material lining for (e.g.
purses).
[0059]          FIG. 1 illustrates an example environment 100 of the present disclosure for
setting or changing the outer appearance of an electronically customizable article. As
shown in FIG. 1, the environment 100 can include client devices 110a and 110b

                                            12
(collectively client device 110), an electronically customizable article 115 with display
117, a wireless cellular network 120, network 125, a server 130, and a data storage 135.
[0060]         Client devices 110a and 110b are depicted as a mobile phone 110a and
desktop computer 110b, respectively, but client devices 110 may comprise any type of
computing device, such as a desktop computer system, a laptop, a smartphone, a
mobile telephone, a tablet-style computer, or any other handheld electronic device.
[0061]         In some implementations, the client device 110a or the electronically
customizable article 115 can connect to the network 125 through a wireless cellular
network 120, such as GPRS-based and CDMA-based wireless networks, as well as
802.16 WiMax and long-range wireless data networks.
[0062]         The network 125 may be an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network
(VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network
(WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, or another
network 125 or a combination of two or more such networks. The present disclosure
contemplates any suitable network 125.
[0063]         One or more links 127 couple an electronically customizable article 115, a
server 130, or a client 110b to network 125. In some implementations, one or more links
127 each can include one or more wired, wireless, or optical links.              In some
implementations, one or more links 127 each can include an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, or another link or a
combination of two or more such links. The present disclosure contemplates any
suitable links 127 coupling electronically customizable article 115, servers 130 and
clients 110b to network 125.
[0064]         One or more links 129 couple an electronically customizable article 115 to
a client 110.   In some implementations, one or more links 129 each can include one or
more wired, wireless, or optical links. In some implementations, one or more links 129
each can include an intranet, an extranet, a WI-FI network, a wireless cellular network, a
Wi-Max network, a long-range wireless data network, an ad hoc network, a personal
area network (PAN) (such as BLUETOOTH), a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a MAN,

                                             13
a portion of the Internet, or another link or a combination of two or more such links. In
some implementations, links 129 can include cable or connectors (e.g., USB cables) or a
storage medium such as a flash drive, memory card, or other data storage device. The
present disclosure contemplates        any suitable links 129 coupling electronically
customizable article 115 to clients 110.
[0065]         Client devices 110a, 110b and the electronically customizable article 115
can interact with the server 130 via an application, such as a web browser or a native
application including a mobile application, residing on the client devices 110a, 110b and
electronically customizable article 115 to create, download, order, or configure images
(still, video, graphic, or any other display item) to display on the electronically
customizable article 115. In some implementations, the server130 may be a social media
site, such as Twitter, an e-mail server, other social-networking websites, shopping sites,
review sites, and any third-party website to interact with content or other users. This
disclosure contemplates any type of server 130 connected to network 125.
[0066]         In some implementations, server 130 may be a unitary server or may be a
distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Server 130
may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server, news
server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server,
exchange server, database server, or proxy server. In some implementations, Server 130
may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of
two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities
implemented or supported by Server 130. For example, a web server is generally
capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages.
More specifically, a web server may host HTML files or other file types, or may
dynamically create or constitute files upon a request, and communicate them to clients
110, 115 in response to HTTP or other requests from clients 110, 115. A mail server is
generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients 110, 115. A
database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored
in one or more data stores.

                                            14
[0067]         In some implementations, one or more data storages 135 may be
communicatively linked to server 130 via one or more links 127. In some
implementations, data storages 135 may be used to store various types of information.
In some implementations, the information stored in data storages 135 may be organized
according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment, each data storage 135
may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that
enable server 130 or clients 110, 115 to manage, e.g., retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the
information stored in data storage 135.
[00681         Client devices 110a, 110b and the electronically customizable article 115
can interact with each other via an application residing on the client devices 110a, 110b
and electronically customizable article 115 to create, download, or configure images
(still, video, graphic, or any other display item) to display on the electronically
customizable article 115.
[00691         In some implementations, each client 110, 115 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two
or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions
implemented or supported by client client 110, 115.            For example and without
limitation, a client 110b   may be any type of computing device such as a desktop
computer system, a laptop, a smartphone, a mobile telephone, a tablet-style computer,
or any other handheld electronic device. Client 115 may be configured to carry out the
function of a computing device such as a laptop, a smartphone, a mobile telephone, a
tablet-style computer, or any other handheld electronic device. The present disclosure
contemplates any suitable clients 110, 115. A client 110, 115 may enable a network user
at client 110, 115 to access network 127.      A client 110, 115 may enable its user to
communicate with other users at other clients 110, 115.
[0070]         A client 110, 115 may have a web browser, such as MICROSOFT
INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME,                    MOZILLA FIREFOX, or any other
future developed web browser and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other
extensions. A user at client 110, 115 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or

                                            15
other address directing the web browser to a server 130, and the web browser may
generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP
request to server 130. Server 130 may accept the HTTP request and communicate to
client 110, 115 one or more Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to
the HTTP request. Client 110, 115 may render a web page based on the HTML files from
server 130 for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable
web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation, web pages may render
from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or
Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages
may also execute scripts such as, for example and without limitation, those written in
JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language
and scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein,
reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files (which
a browser may use to render the web page) and vice versa, where appropriate.
[0071]         FIG. 3 illustrates an example computer system 300, which may be used
with some embodiments of the present invention.            FIG. 3 illustrates an example
computer system for a client device or electronically customizable article.          This
disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 300. This disclosure
contemplates computer system 300 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 300 may be an embedded computer system,
a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a
computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system,
a laptop, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, or a combination of two or more
of these. Where appropriate, computer system 300 may include one or more computer
systems 300; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines;
or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or more
networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 300 may perform without
substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods

                                           16
described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or
more computer systems 300 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more
steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer
systems 300 may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of
one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.
[0072]        In some implementations, computer system 300 includes a processor 302,
memory 304, storage 306, an input/output (I/O) interface 308, a communication
interface 310, and a bus 312. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a
particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system
having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
[0073]        In some implementations, processor 302 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by
way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor 302 may retrieve (or fetch) the
instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory 304, or storage 306;
decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an
internal cache, memory 304, or storage 306. In some implementations, processor 302
may include one or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. The
present disclosure contemplates processor 302 including any suitable number of any
suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 302 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data
caches, and one or more translation look-aside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the
instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory 304 or storage 306, and the
instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor 302. Data in
the data caches may be copies of data in memory 304 or storage 306 for instructions
executing at processor 302 to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at
processor 302 for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 302 or for
writing to memory 304 or storage 306; or other suitable data. The data caches may speed
up read or write operations by processor 302. The TLBs may speed up virtual-address

                                           17
translation for processor 302. In some implementations, processor 302 may include one
or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. The present disclosure
contemplates processor 302 including any suitable number of any suitable internal
registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 302 may include one or
more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more
processors 302. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.
[0074]         In some implementations, memory 304 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 302 to execute or data for processor 302 to operate on. As an
example and not by way of limitation, computer system 300 may load instructions from
storage 306 or another source (such as, for example, another computer system 300) to
memory 304. Processor 302 may then load the instructions from memory 304 to an
internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor 302 may
retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them.
During or after execution of the instructions, processor 302 may write one or more
results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal
cache. Processor 302 may then write one or more of those results to memory 304. In
some implementations, processor 302 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 304 (as opposed to storage 306 or elsewhere)
and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in
memory 304 (as opposed to storage 306 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses
(which may each include an address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 302 to
memory 304. Bus 312 may include one or more memory buses, as described below. In
some implementations, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside
between processor 302 and memory 304 and facilitate accesses to memory 304 requested
by processor 302. In some implementations, memory 304 includes random access
memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate Where
appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM.

                                            18
The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 304 may include one
or more memories 302, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
[0075]         In some implementations, storage 306 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 306 may include an
HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of
these. Storage 306 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where
appropriate. Storage 306 may be internal or external to computer system 300, where
appropriate. In some implementations, storage 306 is non-volatile, solid-state memory.
In some implementations, storage 306 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where
appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM),
erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable
ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This
disclosure contemplates mass storage 306 taking any suitable physical form. Storage 306
may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between
processor 302 and storage 306, where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 306 may
include one or more storages 306. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
[0076]         In some implementations, I/O interface 308 includes hardware, software,
or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system
300 and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 300 may include one or more of
these I/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these I/O devices may enable
communication between a person and computer system 300. As an example and not by
way of limitation, an I/O device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone,
monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen,
trackball, video camera, another suitable I/O device or a combination of two or more of
these. An I/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 308 for them. Where

                                           19
appropriate, I/O interface 308 may include one or more device or software drivers
enabling processor 302 to drive one or more of these I/O devices. I/O interface 308 may
include one or more I/O interfaces 308, where appropriate. Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates a particular I/O interface, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable I/O interface.
[0077]        In   some   implementations,    communication     interface 310   includes
hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such
as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system 300 and one
or more other computer systems 300 or one or more networks. As an example and not
by way of limitation, communication interface 310 may include a network interface
controller (NIC) or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire
based network or a wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a
wireless network, such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
network and any suitable communication interface 310 for it. As an example and not by
way of limitation, computer system 300 may communicate with an ad hoc network, a
personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN),
a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more portions of the Internet or a
combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these
networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 300 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH
WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as,
for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), GPS, or
other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer
system 300 may include any suitable communication interface 310 for any of these
networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 310 may include one or more
communication interfaces 310, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes
and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable communication interface.

                                            20
[0078]         In some implementations, bus 312 includes hardware, software, or both
coupling components of computer system 300 to each other. As an example and not by
way of limitation, bus 312 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other
graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus
(FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture
(ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a
Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI)
bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a
Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a
combination of two or more of these. Bus 312 may include one or more buses 312,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
[0079]         The client-side functionality described above can be implemented as a
series of instructions stored on a computer-readable storage medium that, when
executed, cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described
above. While the client devices 110, 115 may be implemented in a variety of different
hardware and computing systems, FIG. 4 shows a schematic representation of the main
components of an example computing platform 402, according to various particular
embodiments. Multipoint sensing devices generally include a controller 404 which may
comprise a microcontroller or one or more processors configured to execute instructions
and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various
embodiments, controller 404 may be implemented as a single-chip, multiple chips
and/or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and
printed circuit boards. Controller 404 may optionally contain a cache memory unit for
temporary local storage of instructions, data, or computer addresses. By way of
example, using instructions retrieved from memory, controller 404 may control the
reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of
computing platform 402.

                                            21
[0080]        Controller 404 together with a suitable operating system may operate to
execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of
example and not by way of limitation, the operating system may be Windows-based,
Mac-based, or Unix or Linux-based, or Symbian-based, among other suitable operating
systems. The operating system, other computer code (including control client 408
described below) and/or data may be physically stored within a memory block 406 that
is operatively coupled to controller 404.
[0081]        Memory block 406 encompasses one or more storage media and generally
provides a place to store computer code (e.g., software and/or firmware) and data that
are used by the computing platform 402. By way of example, memory block 406 may
include various tangible computer-readable storage media including Read-Only
Memory (ROM) and/or Random-Access Memory (RAM). As is well known in the art,
ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni-directionally to controller 404, and RAM
is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi-directional manner. Memory
block 406 may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of, by way of
example, solid-state hard disk drives (HDDs), among other suitable forms of memory
coupled bi-directionally to controller 404. Information may also reside on a removable
storage medium loaded into or installed in multipoint sensing devices when needed. By
way of example, any of a number of suitable memory cards may be loaded into
computing platform 402 on a temporary or permanent basis.
[0082]        Controller 404 is also generally coupled to a variety of interfaces such as
graphics control, video interface, input interface, output interface, and storage interface,
and network interface, and these interfaces in turn are coupled to the appropriate
devices. In certain embodiment, Controller 404 may connected to an input structure 414
and display 416 may be provided together, such an in the case of a touchscreen where a
touch sensitive mechanism is provided in conjunction with the display 416. In such
embodiments, the user may select or interact with displayed interface elements via the
touch sensitive mechanism. In this way, the displayed interface may provide interactive

                                          22
functionality, allowing a user to navigate the displayed interface by touching the
display 416.
[0083]        Controller 404 may receive instruction signals from input structure 414
and control the operation of display 416. By way of example, display 416 may
incorporate liquid crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED), Interferometric
modulator display (IMOD), or any other suitable display technology. Audio signals
may be transmitted and received by means of an antenna 418 that may be connected
through a radio interface 420 or audio input interface such as microphone 424 to codec
422 configured to process signals under control of controller 404. Additionally,
multipoint sensing devices may be powered power source 432.
[0084]        Client devices 110, 115 may also include one or more user input devices
434 (other than input structure 414) that are operatively coupled to the controller 404.
Generally, input devices 434 are configured to transfer data, commands and responses
from the outside world into multipoint sensing devices. By way of example, client
devices 110, 115 may include a keyboard or mouse. Input devices 434 may also include
one or more hard buttons.
[0085]        Display device 416 is generally configured to display a graphical user
interface (GUI) that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the
computing platform 402 and the operating system or application(s) running on the
client devices 110, 115. Generally, the GUI presents programs, files and operational
options with graphical images. During operation, the user may select and activate
various graphical images displayed on the display 416 in order to initiate functions and
tasks associated therewith.
[0086]        Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses
one or more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing
structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable storage
medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit (IC) (such, as
for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific IC
(ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive (HHD), an optical disc, an optical

                                             23
disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a
floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state
drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or
another suitable computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium
excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C.  101.
Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of
signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se) to
the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C.  101.
[0087]        This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage
media implementing any suitable storage. In some implementations, a computer
readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor 302 (such as,
for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more portions of memory
604, one or more portions of storage 306, or a combination of these, where appropriate.
In some implementations, a computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or
ROM. In some implementations, a computer-readable storage medium implements
volatile or persistent memory. In some implementations, one or more computer
readable storage media embody software. Herein, reference to software may encompass
one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer programs, one or more
executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine code, one or more scripts, or
source code, and vice versa, where appropriate. In some implementations, software
includes one or more application programming interfaces (APIs). This disclosure
contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable
programming      language    or combination      of programming      languages.    In some
implementations, software is expressed as source code or object code. In some
implementations, software is expressed in a higher-level programming language, such
as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In some implementations,
software is expressed in a lower-level programming language, such as assembly
language (or machine code). In some implementations, software is expressed in JAVA.

                                            24
In some implementations, software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language
(HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.
[0088]         The present disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having
ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the
appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and
modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in
the art would comprehend.
[0089]         The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been
presented for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit
the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can
appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above
disclosure. For example, although the foregoing embodiments have been described in
the context of a social network system, it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art
that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and, even if it
is not provided through a website. Any computer-based system that provides social
networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it
relies, for example, on e-mail, instant messaging or other form of peer-to-peer
communications, and any other technique for communicating between users. The
invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system, network,
protocol, format or application.
[0090]         Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the
invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on
information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by
those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work
effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations, while described functionally,
computationally, or logically, are understood to be implemented by computer programs
or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the like. Furthermore, it has also proven
convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules, without

                                           25
loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be
embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any combinations thereof
[0091]        Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be
performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or
in combination with other devices. In one embodiment, a software module is
implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer-readable
medium containing computer program code, which can be executed by a computer
processor for performing any or all of the steps, operations, or processes described.
[0092]        Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for
performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the
required purposes, and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device
selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer.
Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage
medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and coupled to
a computer system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the
specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing
multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.
[0093]        While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a
wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing
environments, the server or computing systems described below provide example
computing system architectures for didactic, rather than limiting, purposes.
[0094]        The present invention has been explained with reference to specific
embodiments. For example, while embodiments of the present invention have been
described as operating in connection with a social network system, the present
invention can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for
communication of messages between users, such as an email hosting site. Other
embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not
intended that the present invention be limited, except as indicated by the appended
claims.

                                             26
[0095]         Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally
selected for readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to
delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the
scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any
claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure of the
embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the
scope of the invention, which is set forth in the following claims.

                                                27
  Claims:
 1.     An electronically customizable article comprising: a fashion article
comprising:
an electronic visual multi touch-sensitive display integral with the fashion article.
a sound sensor, a processor,
a communication interface for communication between the fashion article and a network,
and
a non-transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that, when executed
by the processor, causes the fashion article to:
display content associated with the data on the electronic visual touch-sensitive display,
wherein the content comprises at least one of the following: an image, video, color,
pattern and design, and
manipulate the displayed content in response to at least one of the following:
an interaction with the touch-sensitive display, and a signal received from the
sound sensor;
wherein a manipulation of the displayed content comprises at least one of the following
modifications: multiple image merging. options of adding and removing elements, and
image layering.
2.      The electronically customizable article of claim I wherein the electronic visual
multi touch-sensitive display is configured to rotate a display on the electronic visual
display based on the position of the electronically customizable article.
3.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1,            further comprising a
plurality of electronic visual multi touch-sensitive displays wherein the electronic
visual multi touch-sensitive displays are configured to be positioned at one or more
positions on the fashion article; and wherein the electronically customizable articles
are configured to display content synchronously with one or more other electronic
visual multi touch-sensitive displays.

                                                28
4.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 wherein the electronic
visual multi touch-sensitive display is configured to display the data associated with
an email.
5.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 wherein the electronic
visual multi touch-sensitive display is configured to display the data associated with a
text message.
6.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 wherein the electronic visual
touch-sensitive display is configured to display the data associated with a news feed.
7.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 wherein the electronic visual
multi touch-sensitive display is configured to display the data associated with a video.
8.       The electronically customizable article of claim I wherein the electronic visual
multi touch-sensitive display is configured to display the data associated with a video
game.
9.       The electronically customizable article of claim I wherein the data is received
from a social media server and the electronically customizable article is configured to
display social media content
10.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 further comprising a video
capture device for recording video wherein the electronically customizable article is
configured to playback the captured video on the electronic visual multi touch-sensitive
display.
11.      The electronically customizable article of claim I wherein the data is associated
with an audio file, and configured to playback the audio file.

                                               29
12.       An electronically customizable article comprising:
a fashion article comprising an electronic multi-touch visual display, a sound sensor, a
processor, a 110 interface for communication between the fashion article and an I/0 device,
and a non-transitory     computer readable medium containing instructions that, when
executed by the processor, causes the fashion article to:
        connect to the I/0 device,
        receive data from the I/0 device,
        display one or more images associated with the data on the electronic visual
display,
        receive a signal from the sound sensor, and
        manipulate the displayed one or more images in response to the signal received
from the sound sensor, wherein a manipulation of the displayed content comprises a
visual simulation of the displayed one or more images corresponding to properties of the
received signal,
        wherein the visual simulation comprises at least one of: animating portions of an
image and adding lighting-show effect to portions of an image.
13.      The electronically customizable article of claim       12 wherein the I/0 device
comprises a camera, wherein the article is configured to use the camera for video
teleconferencing.
14.       The electronically customizable article of claim 12 wherein the 1/0 device
comprises a mobile device configured to provide a notification of one or more of the
following:    incoming calls, text messages, email messages, voice messages, and
calendar events.
15.       The electronically customizable article of claim 12 wherein the 1/0 device
comprises    another electronically     customizable  article, wherein the electronically
customizable article is configured to synchronously display multiple images with the
other electronically customizable article.

                                              30
16.      An electronically customizable article comprising:
         a fashion article comprising an electronic multi touch-sensitive display integral
 with the fashion article, a processor, a sound sensor, and a non-transitory computer
 readable medium containing instructions that when executed by the processor,
 causes the fashion article to function in operative communication with a handheld
 electronic device:
         receive data from the handheld electronic device,
         display a plurality of images on the multi touch-sensitive display,
         receive, via the touch-sensitive display, a user input, manipulate the display in
         response to the user input, wherein a manipulation of the display comprises
         image layering and at least one of the following modifications: color, color depth,
         brightening and contrast adjustments, special effects, multiple image merging,
         softening   options,   sharpening   abilities, image enhancing,     selective color
         changing, options of adding and         removing   elements, cropping,     and size
         adjustments receive a signal from the sound sensor, and
         manipulate the displayed at least one image in response to the signal received
         from the sound sensor, wherein the manipulation of the displayed content
         comprises    a visual simulation     of the displayed     one or more images
         corresponding to properties of the received signal;
         wherein the visual simulation comprises at least one of; animating portions of
         an image and adding lighting-show effect to portions of an image.
17.      The electronically customizable article of claim 16 wherein the handheld
electronic device comprises a tablet-style computer or a mobile phone.
18.      The electronically customizable article of claim 1 wherein a manipulation of
the displayed content further comprises at least one of the following modifications:
color, color depth, brightening and contrast adjustments, special effects, softening
options, sharpening abilities, image enhancing, image rotating, selective color changing,
cropping, and size adjustments.

                                              31
19.      The electronically customizable article of claim 18 wherein a manipulation of
the displayed content further comprises at least one of the following modifications:
displaying a specified order and timing of images, colors, designs, patterns, or multiple
visual images synchronously on a plurality of electronic visual touch-sensitive
displays or a plurality of electronically customizable articles.
20.      The electronically customizable article of claim 4, wherein the electronically
customizable article is configured to display content simultaneously or in synchronous
with one or more other electronically customizable articles.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
