                              ABSTRACT
A metabolic   enzyme nutrient   exchange process system for plant
includes   a   nutrition   conversion    reaction   section  and    a
drive/control section. After a plant is placed into the nutrition
conversion reaction section, the drive/control section is operated
to adjust the environment of the nutrition conversion reaction
section to be suitable for the plant to proceed to convert nutrients
and remove antinutritional factors in the plant.

                    32
30    31
                   20
                  21
                  22
   10          23
         Fig.I

Metabolic Enzyme Nutrient Exchange Process (MENEP) System for Plant
                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
The present invention relates generally to food processing and
treatment, and more particularly to a metabolic enzyme nutrient
exchange process system for plant.
2. Description of the Related Art
It is known that all plants contain antinutritional factors. The
so-called "antinutritional factors" means a series of biological
factors  that will   interfere with digestion and absorption of
nutritional materials. During the growth of a plant, in order to
resist against the factors unbeneficial      to the growth,    such as
vegetarian   animals,    insects,   pathogens    or   severe   weather
environment,   the   plant   seed   or   plantlet    will   synthesize
antinutritional factors. This is a self-protection system formed
by the plant in the evolution process.      There are many kinds of
antinutritional    factors   mainly    including    saponin,   amylase
restrainer, parenzyme restrainer, trypsase restrainer, phytic acid,
phytic lectin, erucic acid, gossypol, tannin, thioglycoside, etc.
Some of these antinutritional factors, such as soy isoflavone and
soy saponin, have special effects to human health. However,     in case
of overeating of these antinutritional factors, the antinutritional
                                  1

factors will affect the absorption of human body to nutrients or
even lead to poisoning. Generally, the affection of antinutritional
factors to animal bodies is inhibition of absorption of proteins.
For example, the trypsase restrainer mainly existing in bean plants
has a stronger effect to animal bodies. In addition, in bean plants,
saponin,  hemoagglutinin,   etc.  also will restrain digestion of
parenzyme, in which saponin will stimulate the digestive tract to
lead to inflammation, swell and congestion of the digestive tract.
Trypsase restrainer has the property of reduction of digestive rate
of proteins so that it will cause pancreas swell and growth arrest.
The disease cause is that it will restrain the hydrolyzation of the
amylase in the digestive tract to lead to reduction of the digestive
rate of proteins.    This will result in many symptoms including
anorexia, bodyweight loss, reduction of sperm activity anddyspnoea.
In addition, parenzyme restrainer will stimulate the pancreas and
lead to increase of pancreatic secretion to cause endogenous amino
acid deficiency of the pancreas. This will affect the growth of the
organic body. Moreover, with respect to another type of phytic
antinutritional factor "phytic acid", it      is a ring multivalent
material also referred to as "phytate". The phosphate of phytic acid
will combine with protein molecules to form an indissoluble phytic
acid salt compound. It not only will lower biological potency of
proteins,  but also will affect the function and properties of
proteins and reduce the absorption rate of minerals. Phytic lectin
mainly exists in form of zymoprotein. It is toxic to immune system
and organs to a certain extent and has obvious resistant effect
against immunoglobulin A of animal gut tract. It will restrain the
                                  2

digestion and absorption of the gut tract and lower the utility rate
of protein and hinder or even stop the growth.
Therefore, in order to eliminate the problem of affection of the
antinutritional factors to nutrient utility efficiency of plants,
conventionally, a heat processing method or mechanical processing
method (powdering, shelling, seed skinning, etc.) is employed to
reduce or eliminate the antinutritional factors in the plant bodies.
The heat processing can effectively weaken the affection of the
antinutritional factors to the plants. However, after treated, a
fat oxidization reaction will be induced to the plants at the same
time. This will reduce the utilizability of proteins and necessary
minerals and result in creation of toxic compound and nutrient loss
of the plants. It is therefore tried by the applicant to provide
an effective   and safe method for      removing   the antinutritional
factors in the plant seeds or plantlets. This method can increase
both the nutritional value and utilizability of the plants.
                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
It is therefore a primary object of the present invention to provide
a metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant. The
nutrition conversion system can activate the metabolism enzyme of
the plant in a natural manner to enhance the utilizability of amino
acid. Also,    the   nutrition  conversion    system   can remove   the
antinutritional    factors   in the   plant  bodies   and avoid   toxic
compound.
                                    3

It is a further object of the present invention to provide the above
metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant, which
enables the plants to contain nutrients with better quality and
increases the content of the nutrients to enhance the nutritional
value of the plants.
It is still a further object of the present invention to provide
the above metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for
plant, which can lower the manufacturing and processing cost of
foods.
To achieve the above and other objects,       the metabolic enzyme
nutrient exchange process system for plant of the present invention
includes    a nutrition     conversion  reaction    section   and   a
drive/control section having a slide frame and a water sprinkler
slidably disposed on the slide frame. After plants are placed into
the nutrition conversion reaction section, the drive/control is
operated to adjust the environment of the nutrition conversion
reaction section to be suitable for the plants to proceed to convert
nutrients and remove antinutritional factors in the plants.
In the above metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for
plant, the drive/control section further includes a temperature
controller, a humidity controller or a light source controller or
an assembly of any two of the components.
In the above metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for
                                  4

plant, the so-called "antinutritional factors" means the factors
synthesized in the plant seed or plantlet for interfering with
digestion and absorption of nutritional materials so as to resist
against external infringement. The antinutritional factors include
saponin,    amylase   restrainer,   parenzyme   restrainer,  trypsase
restrainer,   phytic acid, phytic lectin, erucic acid,      gossypol,
tannin,   thioglycoside,   antivitamin,   non-starch polysaccharide,
glucoside, flatulent materials, hemagglutinin, alkaloid, urase or
any other antinutritional factor.
In the above metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for
plant, the so-called "nutritional factors" means the nutritional
factors contained in the plants,       including proteins,  minerals,
vitamins, dietary fibers or any other nutritional factor.
The present invention can be best understood through the following
description and accompanying drawings, wherein:
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a preferred embodiment of the present
invent ion.
         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Please refer to Fig. 1. According to a preferred embodiment, the
metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant 10 of
                                   5

the present    invention mainly includes         a nutrition conversion
reaction section 20 and a drive/control section 30.
The nutrition    conversion    reaction    section 20 is     a container
component for placing plants therein to convert the nutrition. To
speak more specifically, the nutrition conversion reaction section
20 includes a container 21 with a certain capacity, multiple support
columns 22 extending frombottom end of the container 21 andmultiple
casters   23  respectively    mounted    on   the  support   columns    22.
Accordingly, by means of the casters 23, the space position of the
container 22 can be changed.
The drive/control     section   30    is  bridged   over   the   nutrition
conversion reaction section 20. The drive/control section 30 has
an elongated slide frame 31 and a water sprinkler 32 slidably
disposed on the slide frame 31. The water sprinkler 32 can sprinkle
water to change the environmental conditions in accordance with the
necessary environmental     conditions for the nutrition conversion
reaction section 20.
To speak more     specifically,    in order     to properly detect      the
environmental    conditions   and adjust/change       the   environmental
conditions,   the drive/control       section 30    further    includes   a
temperature controller, a humidity controller and a light source
controller (not shown) for detecting the temperature, humidity and
light intensity of the environment in which the nutrition conversion
reaction section 20 is positioned.
                                     6

Accordingly, the metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system
for plant 10 of the present invention is applicable to different
plants such as leguminosea plants, vegetables, cereals and grain
crops and crucifers.    According     to the necessary environmental
conditions of different varieties of plants,          the drive/control
section 30 properly     adjust   the    environment  of   the nutrition
conversion reaction section 20 and make the plants proceed to
convert the nutrients under the environment.         In this case,   the
antinutritional factors in the plants can be effectively removed
or the content of the antinutritional factors can be reduced to
enhance the utilizability of the plant bodies and the quality and
content of the nutritional factors such as vitamins, proteins and
dietary fibers can be increased.
Furthermore,   it should be especially noted that in use of the
metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant 10,
multiple   nutrition   conversion     reaction   sections    20  can  be
sequentially arranged under the slide frame 31 in the lengthwise
direction of the slide frame 31. Under such circumstance, the water
sprinkler 32 can slide along the slide frame 31 to adjust and change
the environmental    conditions of different nutrition conversion
reaction sect ions 20. Accordingly, the adjustment can be automated.
The above embodiments are only used to illustrate            the present
invention,   not   intended   to   limit     the scope   thereof.   Many
modifications of the above embodiments can be made without departing
                                    7

from the spirit of the present invention.
                               8

What is claimed is:
1. A metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant
   comprising:
   a nutrition conversion reaction section; and
   a drive/control    section having a slide frame and a water
   sprinkler slidably disposed on the slide frame,      after plant
   bodies are placed into the nutrition conversion reaction section,
   the water sprinkler sprinkling water to adjust environmental
   conditions of the nutrition conversion reaction section to be
   suitable for the plants to proceed to convert nutrients and
   remove antinutritional factors in the plants.
2. The metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant
   as claimed in claim 1, wherein the nutrition conversion reaction
   section further includes a set of casters.
3. The metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant
   as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drive/control section further
   includes at least one temperature/humidity detector.
4. The metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant
   as  claimed   in claim    1, wherein   the water   sprinkler   is
   reciprocally slidable along the slide frame.
                                  9

5. The metabolic enzyme nutrient exchange process system for plant
   as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drive/control section further
   includes a temperature controller, a humidity controller and a
   light source controller.
                                 10

                             <U+272B><U+2702>
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+260E>        <U+271D><U+2704>               <U+271D><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                         <U+2706><U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2704>
                                        <U+2706><U+2706>
                   <U+2704><U+260E>              <U+2706><U+271D>
                             <U+274F> <U+2701>
                              <U+2704>

