           FULLY INTEGRATED, DISPOSABLE TISSUE VISUALIZATION DEVICE
                                     ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
               The present invention relates to a fully integrated sterilizable one time use disposable
  tissue visualization device and methods for using such devices. Preferred embodiments of the
5 invention facilitate the visualization of an internal tissue site while causing a minimum of
  damage to the surrounding tissue. Further preferred embodiments may allow for the delivery
  of fluids and other treatment to an internal tissue site.
                                                     -50
  9695154 1 (GHMatters) P103607.AU.1

              4/18
             1118
     1108
1100
                   CK X1100
          1102
                            1128
          FIG. 2C
                       1108

            FULLY INTEGRATED, DISPOSABLE TISSUE VISUALIZATION DEVICE
                                            Cross-Reference to Related Applications
   [0001]                            This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Patent Application No.
 5 14/308,167, filed June 18, 2014, which claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) of
   U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/926,578, filed January 13, 2014, the entireties of which
   are hereby incorporated by reference herein. This application is a divisional application of
   Australian patent application No. 2015204444, the contents of which are incorporated herein
   by this reference.
10
                                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Field of the Invention
                [0002]               This application describes embodiments of apparatuses, methods, and
   systems for the visualization of tissues.
15
   Description of the Related Art
                [0003] Traditional            surgical   procedures,   both   therapeutic   and  diagnostic,   for
   pathologies located within the body can cause significant trauma to the intervening tissues.
   These procedures often require a long incision, extensive muscle stripping, prolonged
20 retraction of tissues, denervation and devascularization of tissue. Such procedures can require
   operating room time of several hours followed by several weeks of post-operative recovery
   time due to the destruction of tissue during the surgical procedure. In some cases, these
   invasive procedures lead to permanent scarring and pain that can be more severe than the
   pain leading to the surgical intervention.
25              [0004]               The development of percutaneous procedures            has yielded a major
   improvement in reducing recovery time and post-operative pain because minimal dissection
   of tissue, such as muscle tissue, is required. For example, minimally invasive surgical
   techniques are desirable for spinal and neurosurgical applications because of the need for
   access to locations within the body and the danger of damage to vital intervening tissues.
                                                                -1
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   While developments in minimally invasive surgery are steps in the right direction, there
   remains a need for further development in minimally invasive surgical instruments and
   methods.
              [0005]          Treatment of internal tissue sites, such as the treatment of an orthopedic
 5 joint, often requires visualization of the target internal tissues. However, proper visualization
   of an internal tissue site can be expensive and time-consuming to schedule, such as when
   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is required. Further, other modes of imaging can
   potentially damage the tissue site, leading to poor diagnosis and extended recovery time.
   Consequently, there is need for improved devices and methods for visualization of an internal
10 tissue site.
                                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
              [0006]          Embodiments of the present invention relate to tissue visualization
   devices, methods, and systems. In some embodiments, tissue visualization devices comprise a
15 visualization sensor and an elongated body having a proximal end and a distal end. The distal
   end of the elongated body may be dimensioned to pass through a minimally invasive body
   opening. In certain embodiments, the devices further comprise an integrated articulation
   mechanism that imparts steerability to at least one of the visualization sensor and the distal
   end of the elongated body. Further embodiments provide for methods of modifying the
20 internal target tissues of a subject using tissue modification devices.
              [0007]          One preferred implementation of the invention is a fully integrated
   sterilizable disposable tissue visualization device.          The device comprises a handle, and an
   rigid elongated body extending along a longitudinal axis between a proximal end affixed to
   the handle and a distal end having a sharpened tip. An image sensor is provided in the
25 handle, and an elongate optical element extends through the probe, the optical element having
   a proximal end in optical communication with the sensor, and having a distal end.
              [00081          A control may be provided on the handle, for axially moving the elongated
   body between a proximal position in which the sharpened tip is proximal to the distal end of
   the optical element, and a distal position in which the sharpened tip is distal to the distal end
30 of the optical element.
                                                         -2
           (GHMatters)
   9695154_1        P103607.AU.1

                [0009]               An electrical cord may be integrally connected to the handle, having a free
   end with a connector for releasable electrical connection to an external viewing device.
                [0010]               The integral assembly of the handle, probe and cord may be sterilized and
   packaged in a single sterile container. This enables opening of the sterile container within a
 5 sterile field in a clinical environment, plugging the cord into a compatible external viewing
   device, and commencing a procedure on a patient without any additional assembly steps.
                [0011]               The distal end of the elongated body may be provided with a lateral
   deflection. The deflection may be in a first direction relative to the longitudinal axis, and the
   cord is attached to the handle at a second direction relative to the longitudinal axis, and
10 approximately 1800 offset from the first direction.                     This provides visual and/or tactile
   feedback of the direction of the distal lateral deflection. Proximal retraction of the elongated
   body deflects the distal end of the optical element laterally by at least about 10, in some
   embodiments at least about 2 or 3 or 5' or more to enhance the field of view. In certain
   embodiments, rather than a lateral deflection at the distal end of the elongated body, the
15 entire elongated body may be physically bent, providing a curve in the elongated body. Such
   a curve may have a degree of curvature of approximately at least 0-5', 5-10', 10-20', 20-40',
   40-60', 60-90', or greater than 90'.
                [0012]               The optical element may comprise at least 1 and typically a plurality of
   optical visualization fibers and a distal lens. The optical element may additionally comprise
20 at least one and typically a plurality of illumination optical fibers. The optical visualization
   fibers, optical illumination fibers and lens may be contained within a tubular body such as a
   hypotube.
                [0013]               The optical element may have an outside diameter that is spaced radially
   inwardly from an inside surface of the elongated body to define an annular lumen extending
25 the length of the elongated body. The lumen may be in communication with an injection or
   an aspiration port on the handle such as for infusion of a media such as an irrigant or active
   agent, or for aspiration.
                [0014]               In one implementation of the invention, the device comprises an elongated
   body comprising a 14 gauge needle (2.1 mm Outer Diameter) or outer tubular body having a
30 sharpened distal tip. An optical hypotube is axially moveably positioned within the outer
                                                               -3
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

   tubular body, such that it may be moved from a distal position in which it extends beyond the
   sharpened tip and a proximal position in which the sharpened tip is distally exposed. In
   certain embodiments, the optical hypotube may comprise a distal lens, image guide
   comprising a multi-element fiber, and additional illumination fibers all contained within a
 5 hypotube. The image guide may contain any number of suitable elements, such as 10,000
   elements (e.g. fibers), while the hypotube may be of any suitable gauge, such as an 18 gauge
   hypotube. In some embodiments, the image guide may contain about at least 1,000 elements,
   at least 3,000 elements, at least 8,000 elements, at least 10,000 elements, at least 12,000
   elements, at least 15,000 elements, at least 20,000 elements, at least 30,000 elements, or more
10 than 30,000 elements.                  The elongated body may comprise an infusion lumen, such as an
   annular space between the optical hypotube and the inside diameter of the outer tubular body.
   The lumen may be utilized for infusion of a therapeutic medium such as saline, liquid
   containing biological components such as stem cells, synthetic lubricant or other flowable
   media. In some embodiments, the lumen may be used to deliver saline to a tissue site or other
15 therapeutic agents, such as growth factors, anti-bacterial molecules, or anti-inflammatory
   molecules. In certain embodiments, and as described elsewhere in the specification, the
   optical hypotube may be located non-concentrically within the elongated body. For example,
   the central axis of the optical hypotube may be biased towards one side or another of the
   elongated body. The optical hypotube may be aligned along the bottom of the elongated body
20 to aid in blunting of the sharpened distal tip of the elongated body. Further, in certain
   embodiments and as described elsewhere in the specification, the distal end of the optical
   hypotube may be bent to provide an enhanced field of view. A difference in axes between the
   optical hypotube and the elongated body would also advantageously allow for more vertical
   clearance of the optical hypotube when the optical hypotube comprises a bent/deflected distal
25 tip.
                [0015]               In some embodiments, the visualization devices described herein this
   section or elsewhere in the specification may be used for various image guided injections
   beyond joint injections.                  For example, drugs sometimes need to be injected into the
   pericardium around the heart. Currently, such injections are completed blindly or with
30 expensive visualization. As an alternative application, the visualization devices can be used
                                                            -4
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   when pericardial effusion occurs, a condition that occurs when too much fluid builds up
   around the heart. The physician can use a needle to enter the pericardial space and then drain
   fluid from the pericardium via a procedure known as pericardiocentesis. However, such a
   task could also be completed using certain embodiments of the tissue visualization devices,
 5 via penetration of the pericardium with the elongated body, followed by fluid drainage.
   Currently, physicians use imaging devices such as echocardiography or fluoroscopy (X ray)
   to guide this type of work.
                [0016]               The elongated body is carried by a proximal hand piece, which may be
   connected via cable or wireless connection to a monitor such as an iPad or other display.
10 Output video and/or image data may be transmitted by the cable or wireless connection. The
   proximal hand piece includes a CCD or CMOS optical sensor, for capturing still and/or video
   images. The imaging device of the present invention enables accurate positioning of the distal
   end of the elongated body such as within a joint capsule under direct visualization. The
   imaging device provides a diagnostic function, allowing a clinician or others to effectively
15 diagnose an injury and/or condition. In embodiments, the device can also allow for reliable
   delivery of therapeutic media into a joint while in a physician's office under local anesthetic,
   thereby avoiding the need for other diagnostic procedures that may be less accurate and/or
   require a longer wait period.
                [0017]               In some embodiments, a tissue visualization device comprises:
20              a handpiece comprising a visualization sensor configured to collect an image of an
   internal tissue site;
                at least one lens;
                an elongated body comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the elongated body
   comprising a lumen configured to deliver a fluid to a tissue site and an optical hypotube;
25              an algorithm stored in the handpiece, the algorithm configured to correct optical
   aberrations in the image of the internal tissue site;
                a distal end comprising a sharpened, deflected tip.
                [0018]               In certain embodiments, the optical correction may be generated by
   comparing a captured image to a known definition pattern and generating an algorithm that
30 corrects chromatic aberrations and image distortion specific to each individual tissue
                                                              -5
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   visualization device. In some embodiments, the optical correction may be unique to an
   individual tissue visualization device. In particular embodiments, additional information
   regarding the tissue visualization device may be stored, such as the X,Y position of the center
   of the lens, the image circle size, and unique characterisitic of the LED so as to provide a
 5 consistent initial light level. The aforementioned characteristics of the tissue visualization
   device and additional characteristics described elsewhere in the specification may be
   determined during manufacturing and stored in computer memory such as electrically
   erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM). In embodiments, the entirety of the
   handpiece and the elongated body may be an integrated unit. In certain embodiments, the
10 handpiece further comprises a retraction control, configured to retract the elongated body so
   as to expose the distal lens of the optical hypotube. In some embodiments, the handpiece may
   further comprise a luer, configured to conduct fluid to the internal tissue site via the lumen.
                [0019]               In particular embodiments, a method of optical correction comprises:
                focusing a tissue visualization device on a known definition pattern;
15              capturing an image of the known definition pattern;
                comparing the image of the known definition pattern to a reference data set
   corresponding to the known definition pattern;
                generating an algorithm based on the differences between the image of the known
   definition pattern and the known definition pattern, the algorithm configured to restore the
20 image of the known definition pattern to the parameters of the known definition pattern;
                storing the optical correction within the tissue visualization device; and
                utilizing the optical correction to correct images collected by the tissue visualization
   device. In some embodiments, the method may further comprise inserting the tissue
   visualization device into a tissue site and collecting an image. In certain embodiments, a
25 system for the visualization of a tissue site may comprise: a fully integrated tissue
   visualization device including a hand piece, image sensor in the hand piece and integrated
   probe with fiber optics and an infusion lumen; a displayer configured to display images
   collected by the tissue visualization device; and a cable the provides for electrical
   communication between the displayer and the tissue visualization device.
                                                               -6
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

                [00201               In certain embodiments, a sterilized, integrated, one time use disposable
                tissue visualization needle, may comprise:
                              an elongate tubular needle, extending along a longitudinal axis between a
                proximal end affixed to the handpiece, and a distal end having a sharpened tip;
 5                            an elongate optical element extending through the needlewherein an outer
                diameter of the distal end of the elongate optical elementis configured to have a bias
                against an inner diameter of a point of the sharpened tip of the needle, the bias
                configured to press the distal end of the elongate optical element against the distal end
                of the elongate tubular needle to provide blunting of the tubular needle.
10              [0021]               In embodiments, the lateral displacement of the sharpened tip is 50% of
   an outside diameter of the elongated body. The viewing axis may be at a 15 degree angle
   from the longitudinal axis. The elongate optical element may further comprise a field of view,
   the field of view comprising a frontward view along the longitudinal axis. In embodiments,
   the visualization sensor communicates with the monitor wirelessly. The handle may comprise
15 a clamshell shape. The distal end may be laterally deflected via an axially movable control
   wire. The elongated body may comprise a lumen configured to deliver an anti-inflammatory
   agent to the internal tissue site. In embodiments, a tissue visualization device may further
   comprise a rotational sensor, the rotational sensor configured to determine the rotational
   orientation of the visualization device. The rotational sensor may communicate with the
20 monitor to rotate the image such that a patient reference direction will always appear on the
   top of the screen. In embodiments, the elongated body may comprise an outer tubular body,
   wherein the outer tubular body is constructed from a heat-sensitive material.
                [0022]               In certain embodiments, a method of manufacturing a tissue visualization
                device may comprise:
25                            slicing a tubular reflective material at a desired angle to expose an angled
                surface;
                              milling the angled surface until the angled surface is configured to reflect an
                image;
                              inserting the tubular reflective material into a tubular body, the tubular body
30              comprising a window; and
                                                              -7
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                              positioning the tubular reflective material such that the angled surface reflects
                light passing through the window.
                [00231                   In certain embodiments, a minimally invasive method of accessing and
   visualizing an internal target site of a patient may comprise the steps of:
 5              percutaneously accessing target tissue with a tubular needle having a sharpened distal
   tip and a visualization element therein, the accessing step accomplished with the sharpened
   distal tip positioned distally of the visualization element;
                blunting the sharpened distal tip;
                visualizing the target tissue; and
10 wherein the distal end of the visualization element is biased against an inner diameter of the
   tubular needle
                [0024]                   In certain embodiments, A method of visualizing an internal tissue site
   may comprise:
                providing a visualization needle, the visualization needle comprising:
15                            an elongate tubular needle, extending along a longitudinal axis between a
                              proximal end comprising a handpiece and a distal end comprising a sharpened
                              tip,
                              an elongate optical element extending through the needle,
   wherein the elongate optical element is biased against an inner diameter of the elongate
20 tubular needle; and
   guiding the visualization needle through tissue to reach an internal tissue                 site.
                                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                [0025]               Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent
25 from the following detailed description of the invention, taken in conjunction with the
   accompanying drawings of which:
                [0026]               Fig. 1 illustrates an embodiment of a tissue visualization system.
                [0027]               Figs. 2A-C illustrate various embodiments of a tissue visualization device.
                [0028]               Figs. 3A-B illustrate close-up cross-sectional side views of embodiments
30 of the distal end of the tissue visualization device illustrated in Fig. 2A.
                                                                 -8
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

                [0029]               Fig. 4 illustrates a cross-sectional top view of an embodiment of a tissue
   visualization and modification device
                [0030]               Fig. 5 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a tubular portion of a tissue
   visualization and modification device.
 5              [0031]               Figs. 6A-C illustrate embodiments of a tissue visualization device with the
   outer housing removed.
                [0032]               Fig. 7 illustrates a cross-sectional side view of an embodiment of the lens
   housing depicted in Fig. 6A-C.
                [0033]               Figs. 8A-B illustrate images with or without rotational image stabilization.
10              [0034]               Figs. 9A-D      illustrate embodiments of a tissue visualization device
   comprising a mirrored surface.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
                [0035]               Embodiments disclosed in this section or elsewhere in this application
15 relate to minimally invasive tissue visualization and access systems and devices. Also
   provided are methods of using the systems in imaging applications, as well as kits for
   performing the methods. Before the present invention is described in greater detail, it is to be
   understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such
   may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
20 purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since
   the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims. Where a range
   of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value between the upper and
   lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range, is
   encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may
25 independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within the
   invention, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated
   range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included
   limits are also included in the invention.
                [0036]               Certain ranges are presented herein with numerical values being preceded
30 by the terms "about," "around," and "approximately." These terms are used herein to provide
   literal support for the exact number that it precedes, as well as a number that is near to or
                                                                  -9
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   approximately the number that the term precedes. In determining whether a number is near to
   or approximately a specifically recited number, the near or approximating unrecited number
   may be a number which, in the context in which it is presented, provides the substantial
   equivalent of the specifically recited number.
 5              [0037]               All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein
   incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and
   individually indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by
   reference to disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
   publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing
10 date and should not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to
   antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication
   provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be
   independently confirmed.
                [0038]               It is noted that, as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular
15 forms "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
   otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element.
   As such, this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive
   terminology as "solely," "only" and the like in connection with the recitation of claim
   elements, or use of a "negative" limitation.
20              [0039]               As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure,
   each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components
   and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
   other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
   invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other
25 order which is logically possible.
                [0040]               As summarized above, aspects of the invention include minimally invasive
   imaging and visualization systems. In some embodiments, imaging systems of the invention
   are minimally invasive, such that they may be introduced to an internal target site of a patient,
   for example, a spinal location that is near or inside of an intervertebral disc or an orthopedic
30 joint capsule, through a minimal incision.
                                                               -10
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0041]               In some embodiments, imaging systems of the invention may include both
   an access device and an elongated body. The access device may be a tubular device having a
   proximal end and a distal end and an internal passageway extending from the proximal to
   distal end. Similarly, the elongated body has a proximal end and a distal end and is
 5 dimensioned to be slidably moved through the internal passageway of the access device.
                [0042]               In particular embodiments, access devices of the invention are elongated
   elements having an internal passageway that are configured to provide access to a user (e.g., a
   health care professional, such as a surgeon) from an extra-corporeal location to an internal
   target tissue site, e.g., a location near or in the spine or component thereof, e.g., near or in an
10 intervertebral disc, inside of the disc, etc., through a minimally invasive incision. Access
   devices of the invention may be cannulas, components of retractor tube systems, etc. As the
   access devices are elongate, they have a length that is 1.5 times or longer than their width,
   such as 2 times or longer than their width, including 5 or even 10 times or longer than their
   width, e.g., 20 times longer than its width, 30 times longer than its width, or longer.
15              [0043]               In certain embodiments, where the access devices are configured to
   provide access through a minimally invasive incision, the longest cross-sectional outer
   dimension of the access devices may (for example, the outer diameter of a tube shaped access
   device, including wall thickness of the access device, which may be a port or cannula in some
   instances) range in certain instances from 5 mm to 50 mm, such as 10 to 20 mm. With respect
20 to the internal passageway, this passage can be dimensioned to provide passage of the
   imaging devices from an extra-corporeal site to the internal target tissue location. In certain
   embodiments, the longest cross-sectional dimension of the internal passageway, e.g., the
   inner diameter of a tubular shaped access device, ranges in length from 5 to 30 mm, such as 5
   to 25 mm, including 5 to 20 mm, e.g., 7 to 18 mm. Where desired, the access devices are
25 sufficiently rigid to maintain mechanical separation of tissue, e.g., muscle, and may be
   fabricated from any convenient material. Materials of interest from which the access devices
   may be fabricated include, but are not limited to: metals, such as stainless steel and other
   medical grade metallic materials, plastics, and the like.
                [0044]               The systems of the invention may further include an elongated body
30 having a proximal and distal end, where the elongated body is dimensioned to be slidably
                                                             -11
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   moved through the internal passageway of the access device or directly through tissue
   without the use of an additional access device. As this component of the system is elongate,
   it has a length that is 1.5 times or longer than its width, such as 2 times or longer than its
   width, including 5 or even 10 times or longer than its width, e.g., 20 times longer than its
 5 width, 30 times longer than its width, or longer. When designed for use in knee joint
   procedures, the elongated body is dimensioned to access the capsule of the knee joint. At
   least the distal end of the device has a longest cross-sectional dimension that is 10 mm or
   less, such as 8 mm or less and including 7 mm or less, where in certain embodiments the
   longest cross-sectional dimension has a length ranging from 5 to 10 mm, such as 6 to 9 mm,
10 and including 6 to 8 mm. The elongated body may be solid or include one or more lumens,
   such that it may be viewed as a catheter. The term "catheter" is employed in its conventional
   sense to refer to a hollow, flexible or semi-rigid tube configured to be inserted into a body.
   Catheters of the invention may include a single lumen, or two or more lumens, e.g., three or
   more lumens, etc, as desired. Depending on the particular embodiment, the elongated bodies
15 may be flexible or rigid, and may be fabricated from any convenient material.
                [0045]               As summarized above, some embodiments of the invention include
   visualization sensors and illumination elements. In certain embodiments these visualization
   sensors are positioned within a handle at the proximal end of the device.                  The system may
   include one or more visualization sensors at the proximal end of the device and one or more
20 illumination elements that are located among the distal and/or proximal ends of the elongated
   body. In particular embodiments, one or more visualization sensors, such as those described
   in this section or elsewhere in the specification, may be located in the distal end of the device
   such as within the distal end of the elongated body. In some embodiments, one or more
   visualization sensors may be located at various locations within the elongated body, such as
25 at approximately one-quarter the length of the elongated body from the distal end, one-half,
   or three quarters the length of the elongated body from the distal end. In certain
   embodiments, the visualization sensors may be miniaturized such that they do not
   substantially increase the outer diameter of the elongated body.
                [0046]               Similarly, with respect to the illumination elements, embodiments of the
30 systems include those systems where one or more illumination elements are located at the
                                                               -12
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   distal and/or proximal end of the elongated body. Embodiments of the systems also include
   those systems where one illumination element is located at the distal and/or proximal end of
   the elongated body and another illumination element is located at the distal and/or proximal
   end of the access device. Furthermore, embodiments of the systems include those systems
 5 where one or more illumination elements are located at the proximal end of the device and
   light is propagated via wave guides such as a fiber optic bundle towards the distal end of the
   device. A longest cross section dimension for the elongated body is generally 20 mm or less,
   10 mm or less, 6 mm or less, such as 5 mm or less, including 4 mm or less, and even 3 mm or
   less.
10              [0047]               The elongated body preferably contains an image capture waveguide, an
   illumination waveguide and a lumen for fluid irrigation or aspiration.
                [0048]               In certain embodiments, miniature visualization sensors have a longest
   cross-section dimension (such as a diagonal dimension) of 20 mm or less, 10 mm or less, 5
   mm or less, or 3 mm or less, where in certain instances the sensors may have a longest cross
15 sectional dimension ranging from 2 to 3 mm. In certain embodiments, the miniature
   visualization sensors have a cross-sectional area that is sufficiently small for its intended use
   and yet retain a sufficiently high matrix resolution. In certain embodiments, miniature
   visualization sensors may have a longest-cross sectional dimension of .5 mm. In some
   embodiments, the longest cross-sectional dimension is approximately .1 mm, .2 mm, .3 mm,
20 .4 mm, or greater than .5mm. In certain embodiments, the visualization sensors may be
   between 1 - 2 mm, such as 1.3mm, or between .5-1 mm, such as .75 mm. Examples of
   smaller sized visualization sensors are produced by Fujikura and Medigus. Certain
   visualization sensors of the may have a cross-sectional area (i.e. an x-y dimension, also
   known as packaged chip size) that is 2 mmx2 mm or less, such as 1.8 mmx1.8 mm or less,
25 and yet have a matrix resolution of 400x400 or greater, such as 640x480 or greater. In some
   instances, the visualization sensors have a sensitivity that is 500 mV/Lux-sec or greater, such
   as 700 mV/Lux-Sec or greater, including 1000 mV/Lux-Sec or greater, where in some
   instances the sensitivity of the sensor is 2000 mV/Lux-Sec or greater, such as 3000 mV/Lux
   Sec or greater. In particular embodiments, the visualization sensors of interest are those that
30 include a photosensitive component, e.g., array of photosensitive elements, coupled to an
                                                             -13
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

   integrated circuit, where the integrated circuit is configured to obtain and integrate the signals
   from the photosensitive array and output the analog data to a backend processor. The
   visualization sensors of interest may be viewed as integrated circuit image sensors, and
   include complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) sensors and charge-coupled
 5 device (CCD) sensors. In certain embodiments, the visualization sensors may further include
   a lens positioned relative to the photosensitive component so as to focus images on the
   photosensitive component.
                [0049]               Visualization sensors of interest include, but are not limited to, those
   obtainable from: OminVision Technologies Inc., Sony Corporation, Cypress Semiconductors.
10 The visualization sensors may be integrated with the component of interest, e.g., the proximal
   handle or the elongated structure or both.                    In some embodiments, as the visualization
   sensor(s) is integrated at the proximal end of the component, it cannot be removed from the
   remainder of the component without significantly compromising the structure of component.
   As such, the integrated visualization sensor may not be readily removable from the remainder
15 of the component, such that the visualization sensor and remainder of the component form an
   inter-related whole. As described above, in some embodiments, the visualization sensor(s)
   may be located at the distal end of the elongated body or elsewhere along the elongated body.
                [0050]               While any convenient visualization sensor may be employed in devices of
   the invention, in certain instances the visualization sensor may be a CMOS sensor. For
20 example, the CMOS sensor may be an Aptina CMOS sensor such as the APtina MT9V124.
   Such a CMOS sensor may provide very small pixels, with small package sizes coupled with
   low-voltage differential signaling (LVDS). Such a CMOS sensor allows the cable to the
   display to comprise less conductors, and thus may allow for reduced cable costs as compared
   to other options. Of additional interest as CMOS sensors are the OmniPixel line of CMOS
25 sensors         available from OnmiVision               (Sunnyvale, Calif.),   including the OmniPixel,
   OmniPixel2, OmniPixel3, OmniPixel3-HS and OmniBSI lines of CMOS sensors. These
   sensors may be either frontside or backside illumination sensors. Aspects of these sensors are
   further described in one or more the following U.S. patents, the disclosures of which are
   herein incorporated by reference: U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,388,242; 7,368,772; 7,355,228; 7,345,330;
30 7,344,910; 7,268,335; 7,209,601; 7,196,314; 7,193,198; 7,161,130; and 7,154,137.
                                                             -14
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0051]               In certain embodiments, the elongated body may further include one or
   more infusion lumens that run at least the substantial length of the device, e.g., for
   performing a variety of different functions. In certain embodiments where it is desired to
   flush (i.e., wash) the location of the target tissue at the distal end of the elongated body and
 5 remove excess fluid, the elongated body may include both an irrigation and aspiration lumen.
   During use, the irrigation lumen is operatively connected to a fluid source (e.g.,
   physiologically acceptable fluid, such as saline) at the proximal end of the device, where the
   fluid source is configured to introduce fluid into the lumen under positive pressure, e.g., at a
   pressure ranging from 0 to 500 mm Hg, so that fluid is conveyed along the irrigation lumen
10 and out the distal end.
                [0052]               While the dimensions of the irrigating lumen may vary, in certain
   embodiments the longest cross-sectional dimension of the irrigation lumen ranges from 1 to 3
   mm. During use, the aspiration lumen is operatively connected to a source of negative
   pressure (e.g., vacuum source) at the proximal end of the device, where the negative pressure
15 source is configured to draw fluid from the tissue location at the distal end into the irrigation
   lumen under positive pressure, e.g., at a pressure ranging from 50 to 600 mm Hg, so that fluid
   is removed from the tissue site and conveyed along the irrigation lumen and out the proximal
   end, e.g., into a waste reservoir. While the dimensions of the aspiration lumen may vary, in
   certain embodiments the longest cross-sectional dimension of the aspiration lumen ranges
20 from about 1 to 10mm, about 1 to 4 mm, about 1 to 3 mm, or less than 1 mm. Alternatively,
   a single lumen may be provided, through which irrigation and/or aspiration may be
   accomplished. In embodiments, the product packaging may include a single port stopcock as
   a means to control fluid flow. In particular embodiments, the stopcock or suitable valve may
   be directly integrated into the device. In further embodiments, more than one port or stopcock
25 may be used, such as two ports and two stopcocks, three ports and three stopcocks, and so
   on. In some embodiments, a three way stopcock may be provided so a clinician can 'toggle'
   between infusion and aspiration, or infusion of a first and second fluid, without connecting
   and reconnecting tubes.
                [0053]               In certain embodiments, the systems of the invention are used in
30 conjunction with a controller configured to control illumination of the illumination elements
                                                             -15
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   and/or capture of images (e.g., as still images or video output) from the visualization sensors.
   This controller may take a variety of different formats, including hardware, software and
   combinations thereof. The controller may be physically located relative to the elongated body
   and/or access device at any convenient location such as at the proximal end of the system. In
 5 certain embodiments, the controller may be distinct from the system components, i.e.,
   elongated body, such that a controller interface is provided that is distinct from the proximal
   handle, or the controller may be integral with the proximal handle.
                [0054]               Figure 1 illustrates an embodiment of a system 2 for the visualization of an
   interior tissue site. In some embodiments, a tissue visualization system 2 comprises: a tissue
10 visualization device 4, described in much greater detail below, a controller 6, and a cable 8
   that provides electrical communication between the controller 6 and the tissue visualization
   device 4.
                [0055]               In certain embodiments, the controller 6 may comprise a housing having a
   memory port such as an SD card slot 10 and a camera button 12. The camera button 12 may
15 activate the system to collect and store a still or moving image. The controller 6 may further
   comprise a power button 14, a mode switch button 16, and brightness controls 18. The
   controller 6 can further comprise a display such as a screen 19 for displaying still images
   and/or video.
                [0056]               Activating the mode switch button 10 may switch the system between
20 different modes such as a procedure mode in which video and/or still images are collected
   and displayed in real-time on the video screen 19 and a consultation mode, in which a
   clinician may selectively display stored images and video on the video screen 19 for analysis.
   For example, while in procedure mode, the system could display video or images from the
   visualization sensor in real-time. By real-time, it is meant that the screen 19 can show video
25 of the interior of a tissue site as it is being explored by the clinician. The video and/or images
   can further be stored automatically by the system for replay at a later time. For another
   example, while in consult mode, the screen 19 may conveniently display specific images or
   videos that have previously been acquired by the system, so that the clinician can easily
   analyze the collected images/data, and discuss the images and data with a patient. In some
                                                               -16
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   embodiments, the clinician may be able to annotate the images via a touch screen or other
   suitable means.
                [0057]               In certain embodiments, the screen 19 may be any type of image plane
   suitable for visualizing an image, such as the screen on an iPad, a camera, a computer
 5 monitor, cellular telephone or a display carried by a head worn support such as eyeglasses or
   other heads up display. In certain embodiments, the cable may be avoided by configuring the
   device and display to communicate wirelessly.
                [0058]               In some embodiments, it may be desirable to remove the cord and provide
   instead a wireless communication link between the probe and the monitor and possibly also
10 to a centralized medical records storage and / or evaluation location. Local transmission such
   as to the monitor within a medical suite may be accomplished via a local area network such
   as, for example, a "WiFi" network based on IEEE 802.11 wireless local area networking
   standards, Bluetooth wireless personal area networking standard, or the low power
   consumption ANT wireless protocol. Transceiver chips and associated circuitry are well
15 understood in the art, and may be located within the hand piece housing of the visualization
   device 4, which is discussed below.
                [0059]               As a further alternative to conventional WiFi or IEEE 801.11-based local
   area networks, ZIGBEE networks based on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard for wireless personal
   area networks have been used for collecting information from a variety of medical devices in
20 accordance with IEEE 11073 Device Specializations for point-of-care medical device
   communication, including for example pulse oximeters, blood pressure monitors, pulse
   monitors, weight scales and glucose meters. As compared to present IEEE 802.15.1
   BLUETOOTH wireless personal area networks, for example, ZIGBEE networks provide the
   advantage of operating with low power requirements (enabling, for example, ZIGBEE
25 transceivers to be integrally coupled to the probe under battery power). However,
   transmission ranges between individual ZIGBEE transceivers are generally limited to no
   more than several hundred feet. As a consequence, such networks are suitable for on-site
   communications with medical devices, but unusable for centralized monitoring locations
   located off-site. Therefore, a hybrid system may be desirable in which one or more wireless
30 personal area networks are configured to facilitate on-site communications between the probe
                                                                -17
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   and associated monitor, and also between the probe and one or more wireless relay modules
   which are further configured to communicate with off-site centralized monitoring systems
   (for example, via internet connection or a wireless wide-area network (WWAN) such as a
   mobile telephone data network, for example, based on a Global System for Mobile
 5 Communications (GSM) or Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) cellular network or
   associated wireless data channels). Suitable relay modules and systems are respectively
   described in patent applications entitled "Wireless Relay Module for Remote Monitoring
   Systems" (U.S. application Ser. No. 13/006,769, filed Jan. 14, 2011) and "Medical Device
   Wireless Network Architectures" (U.S. application Ser. No. 13/006,784, filed Jan. 14, 2011)
10 which are hereby incorporated by reference within this patent application.
                [0060]               Thus any of the probes disclosed herein may be provided with an interface
   circuit that includes a transceiver having one or more of a transmitter and/or a receiver for
   respectively transmitting and receiving video image, still image and potentially other signals
   with the associated monitor within the medical suite over a wireless network such as, for
15 example, a Low-Rate Wireless Personal Area Networks or "LR-WPAN," ZIGBEE network
   or another low-power personal area network such as a low power BLUETOOTH or other
   WiFi network, existing or subsequently developed.
                [0061]               Optionally also provided within the patient facility are one or more relay
   modules. Each relay module                      includes a first transceiver for receiving signals from and
20 transmitting signals to the interface circuit within a hand probe or the associated monitor, and
   further includes an output such as an internet connection or a second transceiver for
   wirelessly transmitting signals to and receiving signals from an access point via a wireless
   wide-area network ("WWAN") . Suitable WWANs for use with the present invention
   include, for example, networks based on a Global System for Mobile Communications
25 (GSM) or Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) cellular network or associated with the
   2G, 3G, 3G Long Term Evolution, 4G, WiMAX cellular wireless standards of the
   International              Telecommunication         Union    Radiocommunication      Sector  (ITU-R).   For
   compliance with any applicable patient data privacy provisions of the Health Insurance
   Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), communications over each of the
30 facility-oriented wireless network and WWAN are preferably conducted securely using, for
                                                               -18
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   example, using a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol or a Transport Layer Security (TLS)
   protocol.
                [0062] Also provided are kits for use in practicing the subject methods, where the kits
   may include one or more of the above devices, and/or components of the subject systems, as
 5 described above. As such, a kit may include a visualization device and a cable for connection
   to a controller, contained within a sterile package.                 The kit may further include other
   components, e.g., a controller, guidewires, stylets, etc., which may find use in practicing the
   subject methods. Various components may be packaged as desired, e.g., together or
   separately. Preferably, the components within the package are pre-sterilized. Further details
10 regarding pre-sterilization of packaging may be found in US Patent 8,584,853, filed February
   16, 2013, and hereby incorporated by reference into this specification.
                [0063]               In addition to above mentioned components, the subject kits may further
   include instructions for using the components of the kit to practice the subject methods. The
   instructions for practicing the subject methods may be recorded on a suitable recording
15 medium. For example, the instructions may be printed on a substrate, such as paper or plastic,
   etc. As such, the instructions may be present in the kits as a package insert, in the labeling of
   the container of the kit or components thereof (i.e., associated with the packaging or
   subpackaging) etc. In other embodiments, the instructions are present as an electronic storage
   data file present on a suitable computer readable storage medium, e.g. CD-ROM, diskette,
20 etc. In yet other embodiments, the actual instructions are not present in the kit, but means for
   obtaining the instructions from a remote source, e.g. via the internet, are provided. An
   example of this embodiment is a kit that includes a web address where the instructions can be
   viewed and/or from which the instructions can be downloaded. As with the instructions, this
   means for obtaining the instructions is recorded on a suitable substrate.
25              [0064]               Also of interest is programming that is configured for operating a
   visualization device according to methods of invention, where the programming is recorded
   on physical computer readable media, e.g. any medium that can be read and accessed directly
   by a computer. Such media include, but are not limited to: magnetic storage media, such as
   floppy discs, hard disc storage medium, and magnetic tape; optical storage media such as
30 CD-ROM; electrical storage media such as RAM and ROM; and hybrids of these categories
                                                             -19
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   such as magnetic/optical storage media. One of skill in the art can readily appreciate how any
   of the presently known computer readable mediums can be used to create a manufacture
   comprising a storage medium having instructions for operating a minimally invasive in
   accordance with the invention.
 5              [0065]               In some embodiments, programming of the device includes instructions
   for operating a device of the invention, such that upon execution by the programming, the
   executed instructions result in execution of the imaging device to: illuminate a target tissue
   site, such as an orthopedic joint or portion thereof; and capture one or more image frames of
   the illuminated target tissue site with the visualization sensor.
10              [0066]               Visualization sensors of interest are those that include a photosensitive
   component, e.g., array of photosensitive elements that convert light into electrons, coupled to
   an integrated circuit. The integrated circuit may be configured to obtain and integrate the
   signals from the photosensitive array and output image data, which image data may in turn be
   conveyed to an extra-corporeal display configured to receive the data and display it to a user.
15 The visualization sensors of these embodiments may be viewed as integrated circuit image
   sensors.
                [0067]               The integrated circuit component of these sensors may include a variety of
   different types of functionalities, including but not limited to: image signal processing,
   memory, and data transmission circuitry to transmit data from the visualization sensor to an
20 extra-corporeal location, etc. The miniature visualization sensors may further include a lens
   component made up of one or more lenses positioned relative to the photosensitive
   component so as to focus images on the photosensitive component. Where desired, the one or
   more lenses may be present in a housing. Specific types of miniature visualization sensors of
   interest include complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) sensors and charge
25 coupled device (CCD) sensors. The sensors may have any convenient configuration,
   including circular, square, rectangular, etc. Visualization sensors of interest may have a
   longest cross-sectional dimension that varies depending on the particular embodiment, where
   in some instances the longest cross sectional dimension (e.g., diameter) is 10.0 mm or less,
   such as 6.0 mm or less, including 3.0 mm or less.
                                                               -20
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0068]               Visualization sensors of interest may be either frontside or backside
   illumination sensors, and have sufficiently small dimensions while maintaining sufficient
   functionality to be integrated at the proximal end of the elongated bodies within the hand
   piece of the devices of the invention. Aspects of these sensors are further described in one or
 5 more the following U.S. Patents, the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by
   reference: U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,388,242; 7,368,772; 7,355,228; 7,345,330; 7,344,910; 7,268,335;
   7,209,601; 7,196,314; 7,193,198; 7,161,130; and 7,154,137.
                [0069]               The distal end of the elongated body may be configured for front viewing
   and/or side-viewing, as desired. In yet other embodiments, the elongated body may be
10 configured to provide image data from both the front and the side, e.g., where the primary
   viewing axis from the distal end of the waveguide extends at an angle that is greater than
   about 20 or 5' or 100 or 15' or more relative to the longitudinal axis of the elongated body,
   described in greater detail below.
                [0070]               Depending on the particular device embodiment, the elongated body may
15 or may not include one or more lumens that extend at least partially along its length. When
   present, the lumens may vary in diameter and may be employed for a variety of different
   purposes, such as irrigation, aspiration, electrical isolation (for example of conductive
   members, such as wires), as a mechanical guide, etc., as reviewed in greater detail below.
   When present, such lumens may have a longest cross section that varies, ranging in some in
20 stances from 0.5 to 5.0 mm, such as 1.0 to 4.5 mm, including 1.0 to 4.0 mm. The lumens may
   have any convenient cross-sectional shape, including but not limited to circular, square,
   rectangular, triangular, semi-circular, trapezoidal, irregular, etc., as desired. These lumens
   may be provided for a variety of different functions, including as irrigation and/or aspiration
   lumens, as described in greater detail below.
25              [0071]               In certain embodiments, the devices may include one or more illumination
   elements configured to illuminate a target tissue location so that the location can be
   visualized with a visualization sensor, e.g., as described above. A variety of different types of
   light sources may be employed as illumination elements, so long as their dimensions are such
   that they can be positioned at or carry light to the distal end of the elongated body. The light
30 sources may be integrated with a given component (e.g., elongated body) such that they are
                                                               -21
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   configured relative to the component such that the light source element cannot be removed
   from the remainder of the component without significantly compromising the structure of the
   component. As such, the integrated illumination element of these embodiments is not readily
   removable from the remainder of the component, such that the illumination element and
 5 remainder of the component form an inter-related whole. The light sources may be light
   emitting diodes configured to emit light of the desired wavelength range, or optical
   conveyance elements, e.g., optical fibers, configured to convey light of the desired
   wavelength range from a location other than the distal end of the elongated body, e.g., a
   location at the proximal end of the elongated body within the hand piece, to the distal end of
10 the elongated body.
                [0072]               As with the visualization sensors, the light sources may include a
   conductive element, e.g., wire, or an optical fiber or bundle, which runs the length of the
   elongated body to provide for power and control of the light sources from a location outside
   the body, e.g., an extracorporeal control device.
15              [0073]               Where desired, the light sources may include a diffusion element to
   provide for uniform illumination of the target tissue site. Any convenient diffusion element
   may be employed, including but not limited to a translucent cover or layer (fabricated from
   any convenient translucent material) through which light from the light source passes and is
   thus diffused. In those embodiments of the invention where the system includes two or more
20 illumination elements, the illumination elements may emit light of the same wavelength or
   they may be spectrally distinct light sources, where by "spectrally distinct" is meant that the
   light sources emit light at wavelengths that do not substantially overlap, such as white light
   and infra-red light. In certain embodiments, an illumination configuration as described in
   U.S. applications Ser. Nos. 12/269770 and 12/269,772 (the disclosures of which are herein
25 incorporated by reference) is present in the device.
                [0074]               In some embodiments, devices of the invention may include a linear
   mechanical actuator for linearly translating a distal end element of the device, such as a
   tubular needle which surrounds a visualization element relative to the visualization element.
   By "linearly translating" is meant moving the along a substantially straight path. As used
30 herein, the term "linear" also encompasses movement in a non-straight (i.e., curved) path.
                                                             -22
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0075]               In some embodiments, an integrated articulation mechanism that imparts
   steerability to the distal end of the elongated body and/or distal end of the visualization
   element is also present in the device. By "steerability" is meant the ability to maneuver or
   orient the visualization element, tissue modifier and/or distal end of the elongated body as
 5 desired during a procedure, e.g., by using controls positioned at the proximal end of the
   device. In these embodiments, the devices include a steerability mechanism (or one or more
   elements located at the distal end of the elongated body) which renders the desired distal end
   component maneuverable as desired through proximal end control. As such, the term
   "steerability",             as used herein, refers to a mechanism that provides a user steering
10 functionality, such as the ability to change direction in a desired manner, such as by
   deflecting the primary viewing axis left, right, up or down relative to the initial axial
   direction.
                [0076]               The steering functionality can be provided by a variety of different
   mechanisms. Examples of suitable mechanisms include, but are not limited to one or more
15 axially moveable pull or push wires, tubes, plates, meshes or combinations thereof, made
   from appropriate materials, such as shape memory materials, music wire, etc. For example,
   one active deflection mechanism includes providing a plurality of transverse slots spaced
   apart axially along a first side of the outer tubular body 1126 within the distal segment 1108.
   A second side of the outer tubular body 1126 within the distal segment 1108, opposite from
20 (i.e., 1800 from) the first side acts as an axially non-compressible spine, while the first side
   may be compressed axially causing a lateral deflection concave in the direction of the first
   side. Axial compression (or elongation) of the first side relative to the second side, to induce
   or remove curvature, may be accomplished by an axially movable control wire. The distal
   end of the control wire may be secured to the outer tubular body 1126 within the distal
25 segment 1108, preferably at the distal end of the distal segment 1108. The control wire
   extends proximally throughout the length of the outer tubular body 1126, to a proximal
   deflection control. Manipulation of the control to retract the control wire proximally will
   collapse the transverse slots, shortening the axial length of the first side relative to the second
   side, thereby deflecting the distal segment 1108.
                                                              -23
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0077]               In some instances, the distal end of the elongated body is provided with a
   distinct, additional capability that allows it to be independently rotated about its longitudinal
   axis when a significant portion of the operating handle is maintained in a fixed position, as
   discussed in greater detail below.
 5              [0078]               The extent of distal primary viewing axis articulations of the invention
   may vary, such as from at least about 50, 100, 250, or 350 or more from the primary viewing
   axis. The visualization element may be configured for rotating about its axis so that the full
   range of angles is accessible on either side of the axis of the probe, essentially multiplying the
   effective viewing angle e.g., as described in greater detail below. Articulation mechanisms of
10 interest are further described in published PCT Application Publication Nos. WO
   2009029639; WO 2008/094444; WO 2008/094439 and WO 2008/094436; the disclosures of
   which are herein incorporated by reference. Specific articulation configurations of interest are
   further described in connection with the figures, below.
                [0079]               In certain embodiments, devices of the invention may further include an
15 irrigator and aspirator configured to flush an internal target tissue site and/or a component of
   the device, such as a lens of the visualization sensor. As such, the elongated body may further
   include one or more lumens that run at least the substantial length of the device, e.g., for
   performing a variety of different functions, as summarized above. In certain embodiments
   where it is desired to flush (i.e., wash) the target tissue site at the distal end of the elongated
20 body (e.g. to remove ablated tissue from the location, etc.), the elongated body may include
   both irrigation lumens and aspiration lumens. Thus, the tissue modification device can
   comprise an irrigation lumen extending axially through the elongated body. During use, the
   irrigation lumen may be operatively connected to a fluid source (e.g., a physiologically
   acceptable fluid, such as saline) at the proximal end of the device, where the fluid source is
25 configured to introduce fluid into the lumen under positive pressure, e.g., at a pressure
   ranging from 0 psi to 60 psi, so that fluid is conveyed along the irrigation lumen and out the
   distal end. While the dimensions of the irrigation lumen may vary, in certain embodiments
   the longest cross-sectional dimension of the irrigation lumen ranges from 0.5 mm to 5 mm,
   such as 0.5 mm to 3 mm, including 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm.
                                                               -24
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0080]               During use, the aspiration lumen may be operatively connected to a source
   of negative pressure (e.g., a vacuum source) at the proximal end of the device. While the
   dimensions of the aspiration lumen may vary, in certain embodiments the longest cross
   sectional dimension of the aspiration lumen ranges from 1 mm to 7 mm, such as 1 mm to 6
 5 mm, including 1 mm to 5 mm. In some embodiments, the aspirator comprises a port having a
   cross-sectional area that is 33% or more, such as 50% or more, including 66% or more, of the
   cross-sectional area of the distal end of the elongated body.
                [0081]               In some instances, the negative pressure source is configured to draw fluid
   and/or tissue from the target tissue site at the distal end into the aspiration lumen under
10 negative pressure, e.g., at a negative pressure ranging from 300 to 600 mmHg, such as 550
   mmHg, so that fluid and/or tissue is removed from the tissue site and conveyed along the
   aspiration lumen and out the proximal end, e.g., into a waste reservoir. In certain
   embodiments, the irrigation lumen and aspiration lumen may be separate lumens, while in
   other embodiments, the irrigation lumen and the aspiration functions can be accomplished in
15 a single lumen.
                [0082]               In certain embodiments, the devices may include a control structure, such
   as a handle, operably connected to the proximal end of the elongated body. By "operably
   connected" is meant that one structure is in communication (for example, mechanical,
   electrical, optical connection, or the like) with another structure. When present, the control
20 structure (e.g., handle) is located at the proximal end of the device. The handle may have any
   convenient configuration, such as a hand-held wand with one or more control buttons, as a
   hand-held gun with a trigger, etc., where examples of suitable handle configurations are
   further provided below.
                [0083]               In some embodiments, the distal end of the elongated body is rotatable
25 about its longitudinal axis when a significant portion of the operating handle is maintained in
   a fixed position. As such, at least the distal end of the elongated body can turn by some
   degree while the handle attached to the proximal end of the elongated body stays in a fixed
   position. The degree of rotation in a given device may vary, and may range from 0 to 3600,
   such as 0 to 270', including 0 to 1800.
                                                               -25
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0084]               As described herein this section and elsewhere in the specification, in
   certain embodiments, the device may be disposable or reusable. As such, devices of the
   invention may be entirely reusable (e.g., be multi-use devices) or be entirely disposable (e.g.,
   where all components of the device are single-use). In some instances, the device can be
 5 entirely reposable (e.g., where all components can be reused a limited number of times). Each
   of the components of the device may individually be single-use, of limited reusability, or
   indefinitely reusable, resulting in an overall device or system comprised of components
   having differing usability parameters.
                [0085]               As described herein this section and elsewhere in the specification, in
10 certain embodiments, devices of the invention may be fabricated using any convenient
   materials or combination thereof, including but not limited to: metallic materials such as
   tungsten, stainless steel alloys, platinum or its alloys, titanium or its alloys, molybdenum or
   its alloys, and nickel or its alloys, etc.; polymeric materials, such as polytetrafluoroethylene,
   polyimide, PEEK, and the like; ceramics, such as alumina (e.g., STEATITETM alumina,
15 MAECORTM alumina), etc. In some embodiments, materials that provide both structural as
   well as light piping properties may be used.
                [0086]               With respect to imaging the interior of a joint capsule, methods include
   positioning a distal end of the visualization element of the invention in viewing relationship
   to the target tissue. By viewing relationship is meant that the distal end is positioned within
20 40 mm, such as within 10 mm, including within 5 mm of the target tissue site of interest.
   Positioning the distal end of the viewing device in relation to the desired target tissue may be
   accomplished using any convenient approach, including direct linear advance from a
   percutaneous access point to the target tissue. Following positioning of the distal end of the
   imaging device in viewing relationship to the target tissue, the target tissue is imaged through
25 use of the illumination elements and visualization sensors to obtain image data. Image data
   obtained according to the methods of the invention is output to a user in the form of an
   image, e.g., using a monitor or other convenient medium as a display means. In certain
   embodiments, the image is a still image, while in other embodiments the image may be a
   video.
                                                             -26
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0087]               In embodiments, the internal target tissue site may vary widely. Internal
   target tissue sites of interest include, but are not limited to, orthopedic joints, cardiac
   locations, vascular locations, central nervous system locations, etc. In certain cases, the
   internal target tissue site comprises spinal tissue. Orthopedic joints may comprise any type of
 5 joint of interest within the human body, such as the knee or the shoulder. In some
   embodiments, the internal tissue site may comprise sites of interest during general surgery,
   such as abdominal organs and/or surrounding tissues.
                [0088]               Further applications of the tissue visualization devices described herein
   this section or elsewhere in the specification include use in general surgery (laparoscopic or
10 other minimally invasive surgery) as a secondary visualization device. In some instances, the
   laparoscopic camera may need to be removed and the procedure is blind. However, the outer
   diameters of the devices described herein this application are small enough that they can be
   used to eliminate blackout once a laparoscopic camera is removed. In such embodiments, the
   elongated body is no longer rigid, instead the body is flexible and can be mounted in an
15 elongated flexible tubular body with any of a variety of steering mechanisms such as one or
   two or three or more pull wires to deflect the distal end. In some embodiments, the device
   may comprise a biased curved distal end (e.g., Nitinol) that can be selectively curved or
   straightened by retracting an outer straight sleeve or internal straightening wire, etc.
                [0089]               Beyond general surgery and the other applications described herein this
20 section and elsewhere in the specification, embodiments of the visualization devices
   described herein can be utilized in ear, nose, and throat applications. For example, the
   devices described herein may be used in any diagnostic evaluation where visualization may
   be valuable. As another example, the devices described herein may also be used to guide or
   evaluate the treatment of chronic sinusitis, for instance, the dilatation of a sinus such as the
25 maxillary sinus.
                [0090]               In some embodiments, the subject devices and methods find use in a
   variety of different applications where it is desirable to image and/or modify an internal target
   tissue of a subject while minimizing damage to the surrounding tissue. The subject devices
   and methods find use in many applications, such as but not limited to surgical procedures,
30 where a variety of different types of tissues may be visualized and potentially treated,
                                                               -27
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   including but not limited to; soft tissue, cartilage, bone, ligament, etc. Additional methods in
   which the imaging devices find use include those described in United States Published
   Application No. 2008/0255563.
                [0091]               In one embodiment, the imaging device is utilized to accurately position
 5 the distal end of a needle within the joint capsule in, for example, a knee. This enables
   injection of therapeutic media into the capsule on a reliable basis. For this application, the
   outside diameter of the tubular body has a diameter of less than about 3 mm, preferably less
   than about 2.5 mm and, in one implementation, approximately 2.1 mm (14 gauge).
                [0092]               Figure 2A illustrates an embodiment of a tissue visualization device 1100,
10 comprising an elongated body 1102 and a handpiece 1104. The elongated body may have a
   length that is at least around 1.5 times longer than its width, at least around 2 times longer
   than its width, at least around 4 times longer than its width, at least around 10 times or longer
   than its width, at least around 20 times longer than its width, at least around 30 times longer
   than its width, at least around 50 times longer than its width, or longer than 50 times the
15 width. The length of the elongated body may vary, and in some instances may be at least
   around 2 cm long, at least around 4 cm long, at least 6 cm long, at least 8 cm long, at least 10
   cm long, at least 15 cm long, at least 20 cm long, at least 25 cm, at least 50 cm, or longer than
   50 cm. The elongated body may have the same outer cross-sectional dimensions (e.g.,
   diameter) along the entire length. Alternatively, the cross-sectional diameter may vary along
20 the length of the elongated body. In certain embodiments, the outer diameter of the elongated
   body is approximately .1 to 10 mm, approximately .5 mm to 6 mm, approximately 1 mm to 4
   mm, approximately 1.5 mm to 3 mm, approximately 2 mm to 2.5 m, or approximately 2.1
   mm. In certain embodiments, the elongated body is a 14 gauge needle, having an OD of about
   2.1 mm and a ID of about 1.6 mm.
25              [0093]               In certain embodiments, and as described elsewhere in the specification,
   the elongated body may have a proximal end 1106 and a distal end 1108. The term "proximal
   end", as used herein, refers to the end of the elongated body that is nearer the user (such as a
   physician operating the device in a tissue modification procedure), and the term "distal end",
   as used herein, refers to the end of the elongated body that is nearer the internal target tissue
30 of the subject during use. The elongated body is, in some instances, a structure of sufficient
                                                               -28
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

   rigidity to allow the distal end to be pushed through tissue when sufficient force is applied to
   the proximal end of the elongated body. As such, in these embodiments the elongated body is
   not pliant or flexible, at least not to any significant extent. In certain embodiments, the distal
   end 1108 can further comprise a sharpened tip as depicted in Figure 2A, allowing the distal
 5 end to pierce through tissue such as a joint capsule. In certain embodiments, the distal end
   may be pushed from the exterior of the body into the joint capsule, by piercing through the
   skin and underlying tissues.
                [0094]               As depicted in Figure 2A, in embodiments, the handpiece may have a
   rounded "clamshell" shape comprising a seam 1110 connecting a clamshell top 1112 and a
10 clamshell bottom 1114. In some embodiments, the clamshell top 1112 and bottom 1114 and
   can be manufactured in two pieces and then attached together at the seam 1110. The rounded
   clamshell shape provides a comfortable and ergonomic handle for a user to hold while using
   the device. In certain embodiments and as will be described in greater detail later, the
   handpiece may comprise an image capture control such as a button 1116 configured to
15 capture a desired image. In further embodiments, the image capture control may comprise a
   switch, dial, or other suitable mechanism. The handpiece 104 may further comprise a
   retraction control 1118 that retracts or extends a portion of the elongated body 1102 such as a
   sharpened needle. The retraction control will be described in greater detail in relation to
   Figures 2B-C and later Figures.
20              [0095]               In certain embodiments, the control 1116 may selectively activate the
   acquisition of an image and/or video. The control 1116 may thus be configured to selectively
   start video recording, stop video recording, and/or capture a still image either during video
   recording or while video recording is off. In some embodiments, the control or another
   control may turn on/off an ultraviolet light (UV) source that would be used with UV sensitive
25 material such as a gel. For example, a UV-sensitive liquid could be delivered to a target
   tissue, such as the knee, followed by application of UV liquid to solidify the liquid into a
   solid or semi-solid material. UV light may be generated via a standard LED, such as those
   described elsewhere in the specification. The UV light could be directed towards the target
   tissue via illumination fibers such as those described elsewhere in the specification, while
                                                             -29
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   still retaining some illumination fibers to illuminate the target tissue for the purposes of
   imaging.
                [0096]               In embodiments, the handpiece may comprise a luer connection 1120,
   configured to connect to any fluid source as described herein this section or elsewhere in this
 5 specification, such as sterile saline. The luer connection 1120 may be in fluid communication
   with a lumen extending throughout the length of the elongated body, allowing for the delivery
   of fluid or agents to the tissue site.
                [0097]               The junction between the handpiece 1104 and the elongated body 1102
   may include a hub 1122 that connects the handpiece 1104 to the elongated body 1102. In
10 some embodiments, the hub may be detachable, allowing the elongated body to be detached
   from the handpiece. In other embodiments, the elongated body is permanently attached to the
   handpiece via the hub to provide an integrated assembly.
                [0098]               The handpiece may further comprise a strain relief node 1124, configured
   to attach to an electrical cable (not shown in Figure 2A). The strain relief node 1124 can
15 serve to reduce strain on electrical wiring that may be in electrical communication with the
   handpiece.
                [0099]               In some embodiments, the tissue visualization device 1100 is configured
   as an integrated assembly for one time use. In certain embodiments, the tissue visualization
   device 1100 is pre-sterilized, thus the combination of integration and pre-sterilization allows
20 the tissue visualization device to be ready for use upon removal from the packaging.
   Following use, it may be disposed. Thus the handpiece 1104, elongated body 1102, and other
   components, such as the cable, may be all one integrated unit. By one integrated unit, it is
   meant that the various portions described above may be attached together as one single piece
   not intended for disassembly by the user. In some embodiments, the various portions of the
25 integrated unit are inseparable without destruction of one or more components. In some
   embodiments, the display, as described herein this section or elsewhere in the specification,
   may also be incorporated and sterilized as part of a single integrated tissue visualization
   device.
                [0100]               Figure 2B illustrates a cross-sectional side view of an embodiment of the
30 tissue visualization device depicted in Figure 2A. As in Figure 2A, the tissue visualization
                                                                -30
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   device comprises a number of components such as an image capture trigger 1116, retraction
   control 1118, luer 1120, elongated body 1102, handpiece 1104, and hub 1122.
                [0101]               In some embodiments, the distal end 1108 may comprise a deflected
   configuration, in which the distal end of the elongated body inclines away from the
 5 longitudinal axis of the elongated body 1102.                   This deflected tip is preferably sharpened,
   allowing the tip to penetrate a tissue site of interest. The deflected tip embodiment of the
   distal end 1108 will be described below in greater detail in relation to Figures 3A-B. In
   embodiments, the tip is capable of penetrating through the skin and other tissues to reach an
   internal tissue site.
10              [0102]               As can now be seen in Figure 3A, the elongated body 1102 comprises an
   outer tubular body 1126 which may be a hypodermic needle such as a 14 gauge needle with a
   sharpened tip. The visualization element is in the form of an inner optical hypotube 1128
   extending concentrically through the outer tubular body 1126. The optical hypotube can act
   to transmit an image of a tissue site to a visualization sensor 1132 (Fig. 2B) such as those
15 described herein this section and elsewhere in the specification. The handpiece 1104 further
   comprises a proximal lens housing 1130, described in more detail below in Figure 7.
                [0103]               Referring to Figures 2C and 3A, as described above, in some embodiments
   the handpiece may comprise a retraction control 1118. The retraction control can serve to
   retract the outer tubular body 1126 of Figure 3A, relative to the optical hypotube, thus
20 allowing the optical hypotube to extend beyond the front opening of the outer tubular body at
   the distal end 1108. See Fig. 3B. In some embodiments, the sharpened distal end is used to
   pierce the tissue to direct the elongated body into the target area. Once the elongated body has
   reached the target area, such as within the joint capsule the retraction control 118 can then be
   used to retract the sharpened tip proximally of the distal end of the visualization element. By
25 retracting the sharpened tip, the user may direct the now blunt distal end of the elongated
   body within a tissue site without risk of piercing the tissue again. Retraction of the sharpened
   tip can be particularly useful for certain tissue sites. For example, once a sharpened distal end
   has pierced the joint capsule of an orthopedic joint, there is risk of piercing through the
   opposite end of the joint capsule. By retracting the sharpened end, images of the joint capsule
30 can be captured and medication injected without fear of further damaging the joint capsule.
                                                              -31
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [0104]               In certain embodiments, the edges and sides of the elongated body and tip
   are blunted so as not to damage the surrounding tissue while inserting the elongated body.
   Blunting of the sharp edges from both the axial end and the side are critical as the integrated
   nature of the device results in the sharp edges being exposed to the interior anatomy.
 5 Similarly, typically a blunt cannula has a removable trocar which provides access through the
   tissue, the trocar then replaced with a separate camera hypotube.
                [0105]               In some embodiments, blunting is accomplished with the deflected
   geometry of the distal end biasing the optical hypotube against the inner diameter of the outer
   tubular body. Furthermore, the distal end of the outer tubular body may comprise a reverse
10 grind that further protects the sharp edge as the edge is directly against the OD of the optical
   hypotube. In some embodiments the outer tubular body may comprise dimples on either the
   outer tubular body or the optical hypotube that would bias the OD of the optical hypotube
   against the ID of the elongated body.
                [0106]               The reverse grind or reverse bevel feature may be seen with reference to
15 Figure 3B. The outer tubular body 1126 may be provided with a diagonal cut to produce a
   primary bevel surface 1416 as is common for hypodermic needle tips. However, this results
   in the sharpened distal tip 1410 being spaced apart from the interior wall of outer tubular
   body 1126 by the thickness of the wall. In that configuration, distal advance of the probe
   through tissue can cause tissue to become entrapped in the space between the distal tip 1410
20 and the outside wall of the optical hypo tube 1128.
                [0107]               Thus, referring to Figure 3B, the outer tubular body 1126 may be
   additionally provided with a reverse bevel or tapered surface 1418, inclining radially
   inwardly in the distal direction, opposing the direction of the primary bevel 1416. This places
   the distal sharpened tip 1410 against the inside wall of the outer tubular body 1126, thereby
25 eliminating or minimizing the risk of tissue injury due to the distal advance of sharpened tip
   1410. The point of sliding contact 1408 (discussed below) is located at the distal tip 1410,
   when the outer tubular body 1126 is in the retracted orientation as shown in figure 3B, for
   blunting. The lateral bias of the optical hypo tube 1128 against the outer tubular body 1126,
   in combination with the reverse bevel 1418 produces an atraumatic distal structure.
                                                              -32
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

                [0108]               Figures 3A depicts an embodiment of the distal end 1108 of the elongated
   body 1102 similar to the embodiments described in Figures 2A-C. The elongated body 1102
   may be in the extended position, such as illustrated in Figure 3A, allowing the sharpened tip
   1410 of the distal end 1108 to pierce the tissue of interest as described herein this section or
 5 elsewhere in the specification. As described above, while in the retracted position depicted in
   Figure 3B), the elongated body is less likely to further damage the tissue site. Further, the
   sharpened distal tip 1410 of the elongated body 1108 may have a lateral deflection relative to
   the longitudinal axis of the elongated body 1102, resulting in a deflected tip 1130. In further
   embodiments, the tip may be straight. The deflection may be in an upward direction when
10 the handpiece is oriented as in Figure 2B with the controls on the top. Deflection may be at
   least about 1 degree, 3 degrees, 7 degrees, 12 degrees, 15 degrees or more from the axis of
   the elongated body.
                [0109]               The deflected tip 1130 allows a mechanical means of altering the direction
   of view of the optical hypotube (such as about 5-6 degrees). In some embodiments, the
15 direction of view may be at least about 3 degrees, at least about 6 degrees, at least about 12
   degrees, at least about 15 degrees, at least about 20 degrees, at least about 30 degrees, at least
   about 45 degrees, or greater than 45 degrees off the central longitudinal axis 1112 of the
   optical hypotube. Wide angle field of view can be accomplished with a lens, or by rotating
   the fiber optic if the distal end is deflected off axis. The deflected tip may also provide better
20 directional performance during insertion and limit the "coring" associated with traditional
   needle geometry (minimizing the chance that a skin core will be dragged into the patient and
   potentially cause an infection).
                [0110]               With continuing reference to Figure 3A, the elongated body 1102 may be
   substantially linear throughout at least about the proximal 65% and in some implementations
25 at least about 80% of the axial length, with a deflected distal segment 1108 as has been
   discussed. Disregarding the deflection, the elongated body 1102 may be characterized by a
   central longitudinal axis 1104 from which the distal segment 1108 deviates laterally.
                [0111]               In the illustrated embodiment, the degree of deflection of the distal
   segment 1108 positions the distal sharpened tip 1410 approximately in alignment with the
30 central longitudinal axis 1404. Thus the lateral displacement 1406 resulting from the
                                                               -33
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   deflection in the illustrated embodiment is approximately 50% of the outside diameter of the
   elongated body 1102. The lateral displacement 1406 is generally no more than about the
   outside diameter of the elongated body 1102, and in many implementations is at least about
   10% and sometimes at least about 25% of the OD of the elongated body 1102. In certain
 5 implementations of the invention, the lateral displacement 1106 is within the range of from
   about 40% to about 60%, and sometimes between about 45% and 55% of the OD of
   elongated body 1102.
                [0112]               The foregoing tip configuration allows the elongated body 1102 to
   penetrate through tissue along a substantially linear axis, while at the same time launching the
10 distal tip of the optical hypotube with a lateral inclination. Since the optical hypo tube 1128 is
   substantially linear, and the elongated body 1102 is provided with the deflected distal
   segment, a point of sliding contact 1408 is created between a distal edge of the optical hypo
   tube 1128 and an inside surface of the elongated body 1102. The lateral inclination of the
   outer tubular body 1126 causes the optical hypo tube 1128 to bend laterally as the outer
15 tubular body 1126 is withdrawn proximally with respect to optical hypo tube 1128.                      This
   result may alternatively be accomplished by providing a preset lateral deflection in a distal
   segment of the optical hypotube, in combination with an outer tubular body having either a
   deflected or substantially linear distal segment 1408.
                [0113]               The effect of the foregoing geometry, as has been briefly discussed, is to
20 enable a mechanical broadening of the lateral field of view. Optical broadening of the field of
   view may alternatively or additionally be accomplished, using a variety of optical lens
   systems well known in the art.
                [0114]               Referring to Figure 3B, the optical hypo tube 1128 will enable viewing
   along a primary viewing axis 1412. Depending upon the distal optics of the optical hypo tube,
25 the primary viewing axis 1412 will typically launch at a perpendicular angle to the distal
   optical surface, and reside on a center of rotation of a typically substantially conical field of
   view 1414. The geometric shape of the field of view 1414 may be modified, as desired, such
   as to oval, rectangular or other shape either through optics or software.
                [0115]               The lateral deflection of the primary viewing axis 1412 may be quantified,
30 among other ways, by identifying an angle theta between the central longitudinal axis 1404 of
                                                                -34
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   the elongated probe body 1102 and the primary viewing axis 1412. The angle theta may be at
   least about 10, at least about 30, at least about 70, at least about 120, at least 15 degrees, or
   more, but typically no more than about 450, and in certain embodiments, at least about 30 and
   no more than about 80 or 100.
 5              [0116]               The field of view 1414 may be characterized by an angle alpha, which will
   depend primarily upon the distal optics 1136. The angle Alpha will typically be between
   about 450 and about 1200, such as between about 550 and 850. In one implementation, the
   angle Alpha is approximately 700.
                [0117]               As will be appreciated by reference to figure 3B, the field of view Alpha
10 enables lateral deflection of the primary viewing axis 1412 throughout a range to enable
   lateral viewing, while still permitting the central longitudinal axis 1104 to intersect target
   tissue at a point that remains within the field of view 1414. This enables visualization straight
   ahead of the tubular body, along the central longitudinal axis, while at the same time
   permitting increased lateral viewing in the angle of deflection. Rotation of the elongated body
15 1102 about the central longitudinal axis 1404 therefore enables sweeping the optical field of
   view through a range of rotation which effectively increases the total visualized target size.
   For example, in an embodiment having a field of view of 700, and a deflection of 50, rotation
   about the central longitudinal axis 1404 throughout a full revolution enables sweeping
   through an effective field of view of 1520.
20              [0118]               In some embodiments, the elongated body 1102 comprises a lumen 1138
   that may deliver fluid including medications such as anti-inflammatory agents, antibiotics,
   anesthetics or others known in the art within the capsule or to other tissue site. In certain
   embodiments, as depicted in Figure 3A, the lumen 1138 may encompass the annular space
   between the optical hypotube 1128, and the outer tubular body 1126.
25              [0119]               In some embodiments, the distal end of the visualization element may
   comprise a distal lens 1136 configured to facilitate the imaging of an internal tissue site. The
   distal lens, or any other lens, may develop defects and imperfections during manufacturing,
   leading to a distortion in the image. These distortions may be unique to individual lenses and
   thus in the case of the embodiments disclosed herein this application, may be unique to an
30 individual tissue visualization device. Thus, to enhance image quality, the device 1100 as
                                                              -35
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

   depicted in Figure 2A, may include an automatic optical correction in the form of a unique
   algorithm. In some embodiments, the algorithm may be stored in a chip or other suitable
   means within the handpiece 1004.
                [0120]               In certain embodiments, the automatic optical correction may serve to
 5 improve the image quality generated by the tissue visualization device. The Abbe number,
   also known as the V-number or constringence of a transparent material, is a measure of the
   material's dispersion (variation of refractive index with wavelength) in relation to the
   refractive index, with high values of V indicating low dispersion (low chromatic aberration).
   Low chromatic aberration is desired to optimize image quality, but achieving low chromatic
10 aberration normally increases manufacturing                     cost.  In some embodiments, chromatic
   aberrations in the tissue visualization device may be corrected via the aforementioned
   software algorithm at the time of clinical use, which allows economies during manufacturing.
   For example, the optical correction may allow for visualization performance from the device
   with less expensive lenses that rivals the performance of visualization devices that use far
15 more expensive lenses with minimal imperfections.
                [0121]               In embodiments, to generate the algorithm at the point of manufacture, the
   distal optic is focused on a known definition pattern. A computer can then compare the
   captured image to the known pattern and create an algorithm that restores the captured image
   to the true definition pattern. As described above, that algorithm may then be stored in a chip
20 in the handpiece 1104.
                [0122]               When the handpiece 1104 is connected to a displayer 6 at the clinical site,
   as described previously in relation to Figure 1, the algorithm serves as the basis for the
   displayer 6 to correct the captured image such that aberrations in the optical system are
   removed. Each individual tissue visualization device will have unique aberrations, so each
25 handpiece will carry a unique algorithm designed to correct that system.
                [0123]               Returning to Figure 3B, Figure 3B further depicts a closer view of an
   embodiment of the sharpened distal end 1204 of the elongated body in the retracted position.
   As described above, in relation to Figure 2C, the retraction control serves to retract the
   sharpened deflected tip 1204 to prevent further damage to the surrounding tissue while
30 viewing an interior tissue site.
                                                              -36
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

                [0124]               Figure 4 depicts a cross-sectional top view of an embodiment of the tissue
   visualization device 1100. The handpiece 1104 comprises an illumination element 1134 and a
   visualization sensor support 1136, described in greater detail below. Similar to illumination
   elements or apparatuses described elsewhere in this specification, the illumination element
 5 1134 may extend down the length of the elongated body and convey light down the elongated
   body to an interior tissue site to allow for visualization of the target tissue. In some
   embodiments, the illumination element 1134 comprises a bundle or bundles of illumination
   fibers.
                [0125]               Figure 5 illustrates cross sectional views of an embodiment of a tissue
10 visualization device down the length of an elongated body 1200, similar to the elongated
   bodies depicted in Figures 2A-4. In certain embodiments, the optical hypotube 1204 may
   comprise an image guide 1202, at least one illumination fiber or fiber bundle 1210, an
   infusion lumen 1206, and outer tubular body 1208. As will be understood by one skilled in
   the art, the use of the term "illumination fiber" here encompasses an illumination fiber or
15 fiber bundle. As described elsewhere in the specification, the illumination fibers or fiber
   bundles may be configured to transmit a wavelength of light suitable for illuminating a target
   tissue for visualization; however, the illumination fibers may also be configured to transmit
   UV light to a tissue site for the purpose of solidifying a UV-sensitive material. For example,
   if there are 14 total illumination fibers or fiber bundles, then 7 may be configured to deliver
20 light suitable for visualization while another 7 may be suitable for delivering UV light.
   However, any suitable combination may be used. For example, most of the illumination
   fibers may be UV, half of the illumination fibers, or less than half. In particular embodiments,
   the number of illumination fibers may be increased or decreased from the number depicted in
   Figure 5. For example, there may be one fiber, at least two fibers, at least 5 fibers, at least 10
25 fibers, at least 14 fibers, at least 20 fibers, at least 25 fibers, at least 50 fibers, or more than 50
   fibers. In certain embodiments, the illumination fibers may be configured to output multiple
   wavelengths of light suitable for imaging an internal tissue site.
                [0126]               The wavelength of light delivered via illumination fibers 1210 [which can
   be at least 4, 8, 12 or more fibers or bundles of fibers, and which may be arranged in an
30 annular configuration surrounding the image guide 1202 as shown in Figure 5 but described
                                                                -37
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   in detail below] may be selected for various wavelength specific applications. For example,
   wavelengths in the UV range can be utilized to permit visual differentiation of tissue types
   such as to distinguish nervous tissue from surrounding tissue and/or minimally vascularized
   nervous tissue. Blood vessels may appear to have a first color (such as red) while nerve tissue
 5 may appear to have a second color (such as blue). The wavelength may also be optimized to
   distinguish nervous tissue from muscle.
                [0127]               In another application, light such as UV light or visible light may be
   propagated via fiber 1210 to promote or initiate curing of an infused solution (e.g., via
   polymerization or cross-linking), where the solution or gel is administered via infusion lumen
10 1206, to form a solid or semi-solid mass in vivo. The mass may be a tissue bulking device,
   coating layer or other structural element.
                [0128]               Another wavelength specific application involves directing a preselected
   wavelength to a target impregnated with a drug or drug precursor. Upon delivery of the
   preselected wavelength to the target, drug is released, or the precursor is converted into a
15 drug which is then released. The target may be an implanted mass or device, or an infused
   carrier medium such as any or a combination of a liquid, gel, or beads.
                [0129]               The UV light may include Ultraviolet A, long wave, or black light,
   abbreviated "UVA" and having a wavelength of 400 nm-315 nm; Near UV light, abbreviated
   "NUV" and having a wavelength of 400 nm-300 nm; Ultraviolet B or medium wave,
20 abbreviated "UVB" and having a wavelength of 315 nm-280 nm; Middle UV light,
   abbreviated "MUV" and having a wavelength of 300 nm-200 nm; Ultraviolet C, short wave,
   or germicidal, abbreviated "UVC" and having a wavelength of 280 nm-100 nm; Far UV light,
   abbreviated "FUV" and having a wavelength of 200 nm-122 nm; Vacuum UV light,
   abbreviated "VUV" and having a wavelength of 200 nm-400 nm; Low UV light, abbreviated
25 "LUV" and having a wavelength of 100 nm-88 nm; Super UV light, abbreviated "SUV" and
   having a wavelength of 150 nm-10 nm; and Extreme UV light, abbreviated "EUV" and
   having a wavelength of 121 nm-10 nm. In some embodiments, the catheters may include an
   element that emits visible light. Visible light may include violet light having a wavelength of
   380-450 nm; blue light having a wavelength of 450-475 nm; cyan light having a wavelength
30 of 476-495 nm; green light having a wavelength of 495-570 nm; yellow light having a
                                                               -38
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   wavelength of 570-590 nm; orange light having a wavelength of 590-620 nm; and red light
   having a wavelength of 620-750 nm. In some embodiments, the catheter includes an element
   that emits light having a wavelength between about 300 nm and 500 nm. In particular, the
   catheter may include an element that emits light having a wavelength associated with blue
 5 light (e.g., light having a wavelength between about 450-475 nm). Wavelength selection
   information and characterization and other details related to infrared endoscopy are found in
   U.S. Pat. No. 6,178,346; US Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0014995, and US
   Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0020914, each of which is hereby incorporated by
   reference in its entirety.
10              [0130]               In certain embodiments, the outer diameter of the optical hypotube may
   range from approximately .1 mm to 3 mm, approximately .5 mm to 2.5 mm, or
   approximately 1 mm to 2 mm. In certain embodiments, the outer diameter of the optical
   hypotube is approximately 1.27 mm. In some embodiments, the inner diameter of the outer
   tubular body ranges from approximately .1 mm to 10 mm, approximately .2 mm to 8 mm,
15 approximately .5 mm to 6 mm, approximately 1 mm to 5 mm, approximately 1.2 mm to
   4mm, or approximately 1.4mm to 3mm. In certain embodiments, the inner diameter of the
   outer tubular body 1208 is approximately 1.6 mm.
                [0131]               In some embodiments, the image guide 1202 allows for the viewing of an
   image of the tissue site by the visualization sensor in the handpiece. In particular
20 embodiments, the image guide may be a fiber optic or other suitable medium to allow for
   imaging of the tissue site by a visualization sensor as described herein this section or
   elsewhere in the specification. The fiber optic bundle may have at least about 6K, or at least
   about 10K or at least about 15K or at least about 30K fibers or more, depending upon the
   desired performance. In some embodiments, the image fiber may be a 6.6k fiber bundle or a
25 10k fiber bundle.
                [0132]               Figs. 6A-C illustrate embodiments of the elongated body and inner
   components of a tissue visualization device 1300, similar to the embodiments depicted
   elsewhere herein. In this particular figure, the outer shell of the handpiece is removed to
   better view the interior of the device. In certain embodiments, the tissue visualization device
                                                             -39
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   comprises an elongated body 1302, an illumination element 1304, light source housing 1306,
   a proximal lens housing 1310m a ferrule 1314, a nosepiece 1312, and a distal lens 1316.
                [0133]               Figure 6B illustrates a top view of the tissue visualization device 1300 of
   Figure 6A, while Figure 6C illustrates a side view. The components in these figure are similar
 5 to the components illustrated in 6A, however in 6B, the visualization complex is identified as
   1318. The visualization complex and surrounding components can be viewed in more detail
   in Figure 7.
                [0134]               Fig. 7 illustrates a cross-sectional side view of an embodiment of the
   visualization complex of Figure 6C. In some embodiments, the visualization complex 1318
10 may comprise a visualization sensor 1320 such as those visualization sensors described
   herein this section or elsewhere in the specification. In certain embodiments, the visualization
   sensor may be a CMOS sensor as described herein this section or elsewhere in the
   specification.
                [0135]               In certain embodiments, the visualization complex can comprise a first
15 lens 1322, an optical aperture 1324, and a second lens 1326. In some embodiments, the
   aperture may have a diameter of at least about .1 mm, at least about .2 mm, at least about .3
   mm, at least about .5 mm, or more than .5 mm. Preferably, the aperture may be
   approximately 0.222 mm. To support the lenses, the visualization complex may comprise a
   proximal lens housing as described previously, wherein the proximal lens housing may serve
20 to secure the lenses 1320 and 1326 in the proper location and orientation. The visualization
   complex may further comprise an image guide, similar to the image guide described
   previously in relation to Figure 5.
                [0136]               As illustrated in Figure 1 and Figure 8A, one consequence of the
   integrated visualization device of the present invention is that rotation of the visualization
25 device 4 about the central longitudinal axis 1404 to achieve the enlarged field of view will
   simultaneously cause a rotation of the apparent inferior superior orientation as seen by the
   clinician on the display such as video screen 19 of Figure 1 or image 1501 of Figure 8A. It
   may therefore be desirable to compensate such that a patient reference direction such as
   superior will always appear on the top of the screen 19, regardless of the rotational
30 orientation of the visualization device 4, such as depicted in image 1503 of Figure 8B.
                                                                -40
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

                [0137]                This may be accomplished by including one or more sensors or switches
   carried by the visualization device 4, that are capable of generating a signal indicative of the
   rotational orientation of the visualization sensor 1132. The signal can be transmitted via wire
   or wireless protocol to the controller 6 for processing and correction of the rotational
 5 orientation of the image on screen 19 or other display, to stabilize the image.
                [0138]                Suitable sensors may include simple tilt or orientation sensors such as
   mercury switches, or other systems capable of determining rotational orientation relative to
   an absolute reference direction such as up and down. Alternatively, the rotational orientation
   image correction system may comprise a 3-axis accelerometer with associated circuitry such
10 as a small accelerometer constructed with MEMS (micro-electro mechanical systems)
   technology using capacitance measurement to determine the amount of acceleration, available
   from Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., of Austin,Tex and other companies.
                [0139]                As an alternative or in addition to the accelerometer, the visualization
   device may carry a gyroscope such as a three-axis gyroscope. The output of the gyroscope
15 may be the rate of change of roll angle, pitch angle and yaw angle and rotational rate
   measurements provided by the gyroscope can be combined with measurements made by the
   accelerometer to provide a full six degree-of-freedom description of the sensor 1132's motion
   and position, although that may not be necessary to simply correct for rotational orientation.
   A control may be provided on the hand piece or controller 6, allowing the clinician to select
20 what reference orientation (e.g., patient superior, inferior, true up or down, etc. or true sensor
   view such that the image on the screen rotates with the sensor) they would like to have
   appearing at the top of the screen regardless of sensor orientation. In certain embodiments,
   markers such as an arrow or line may be projected onto the image to further identify different
   orientations and/or directions
25              [0140]               In some embodiments, the optical hypotube may be sheathed in heat shrink
   tubing. For example, the outer tubular body as described elsewhere in the specification, may
   be constructed from a heat-sensitive material. Thus, to construct the elongated body as
   described elsewhere in the specification, the optical hypotube and other components may be
   extended down an over-sized outer tubular body which is then shrunk down to the diameter
30 of the optical hypotube via means such as heat, UV, chemical, or other means. In contrast,
                                                              -41
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   traditional endoscopes and some endoscopes described elsewhere in the specification house
   the optics in a rigid stainless steel tube. However, housing the optics within a stainless steel
   tube may require forcing many optical and illumination fibers down a very tight ID and then
   applying an adhesive such as epoxy. Such a process is difficult and costly.
 5              [0141]               Figures 9A-D illustrate an embodiment of a visualization device, similar
   to the visualization devices in Figures 1-7. The visualization device of Figures 9A-D
   incorporate at least one mirror to alter the viewing direction and field of view of the
   visualization device. Figure 9A depicts a reflective plug 1600 which may be inserted into the
   distal end of a tubular body, such as the tubular bodies described above in relation to Figures
10 1-3B. Such a plug may comprise a mirrored surface 1602 that will reflect an image at a
   particular angle 1604, for example, providing a direction of view 30 degrees from the axis of
   the plug. In some embodiments, the angle may be much smaller, such as between 0 - 15
   degrees. In further embodiments the angle may range from 15-45 degrees. In some
   embodiments, the angle may be at least 45 degrees, at least 60 degrees, at least 75 degrees or
15 at least 90 degrees or more. As illustrated in Figure 9B, and described above in relation to
   Figure 9A, the plug 1600 may be inserted into the end of a tubular body 1606, similar to the
   tubular bodies described elsewhere in the specification. In embodiments, the plug may be
   incorporated into any of the visualization devices described elsewhere in the specification. In
   some embodiments, the plug may be sharpened to allow the plug to pierce tissues.
20              [0142]               Figures 9C-D illustrate embodiments of the outer tubular body of Figure
   9B comprising a window 1608. The window allows for light to reflect from the mirrored
   surface 1602 and be directed down the tubular body 1606, thereby transmitting an image of
   the field of view available through the window down the elongated body. Such an image may
   be transmitted along an optical hypotube and/or image guide such as described elsewhere in
25 the specification. Further components, such as illumination elements may be used to direct
   light along the mirrored surface and out through the window to illuminate surrounding
   tissues. In embodiments, the window may allow for a field of view 1610 that extends forward
   and above the distal end of the tubular body. Depending on the angle and orientation of the
   mirrored surface, the magnitude of the field of view may be between about 45' and 1200,
                                                              -42
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   such as between about 550 and 85'. In one implementation, the angle may be approximately
   700.
                [0143]               In embodiments, the visualization devices of Figures 9A-D may be
   manufactured from a variety of means. For example, a tubular reflective material such as
 5 depicted by reflective plug 1600 may be sliced at a desired angle and milled/polished to
   create a mirrored surface 1602. Such a plug with a mirrored surface may be fed through an
   open end of a tubular body with a cut window 1608, such as tubular body 1606 of Figures
   9B-D, and welded to the tubular body. Once the mirrored surface is properly positioned
   within the tubular body, the tubular body and reflective plug may be cut/milled at the same
10 time to create a sharpened tip 1612, such as illustrated in Figure 9D.
                [0144]                In certain embodiments, a desired direction of view may be reached by
   positioning a prism at the distal end of the elongated body. Such a prism may provide a
   direction of view such as disclosed elsewhere in the specification, for example: providing a
   direction of view 30 degrees from the axis of the elongated body. In some embodiments, the
15 angle may be much smaller, such as between 0 - 15 degrees. In further embodiments the
   angle may range from 15-45 degrees. In some embodiments, the angle may be at least 45
   degrees, at least 60 degrees, at least 75 degrees or at least 90 degrees or more.
                [0145]               In some embodiments, the elongated body may be in a shape that is non
   circular. For example, the entirety of the elongated body may be oval or elliptical in shape. In
20 some embodiments, only the distal end of the elongated body is oval-shaped while the
   remainder of the elongated body is circular. An oval shaped elongated body advantageously
   allows for additional space for the deflected distal tip. In certain embodiments, the major axis
   of the ellipse is approximately 1.1 times as long as the minor axis. In some embodiments, the
   major axis is at least 1.2 times, 1.3 times, 1.5 times, 1.75 times, 2 times, 3 times, 4 times, 5
25 times, or more than 5 times as long as the minor axis.
                [0146]                In particular embodiments, the distal tip of the elongated body may be
   constructed from elastic material to allow the distal tip to flex distally. Further, the deflected
   portion of the distal tip may be very short, allowing the deflected portion to stay within the
   outer perimeter confines of the elongated body.
                                                             -43
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

                [01471                   In certain embodiments, the distal end of the elongated body may be
   rotated with respect to the optical hypotube. For example, the sharped distal point may be
   under the optical hypotube, over the top of the optical hypotube, or on with side of the optical
   hypotube. In certain embodiments, the optical hypotube may act as a shield to prevent the
 5 sharpened distal point from damaging the surrounding tissue in any orientation. In certain
   embodiments, the optical hypotube may comprise a shield at the distal tip, the shield acting to
   protect the surrounding tissue from the sharpened distal tip of the elongated body. Upon
   rotation of the optical hypotube, the shield may be moved from the sharpened distal tip of the
   elongated body, allowing for further penetration through tissue.
10              [0148]                Features, materials, characteristics, or groups described in conjunction
   with a particular aspect, embodiment, or example are to be understood to be applicable to any
   other aspect, embodiment or example described in this section or elsewhere in this
   specification unless incompatible therewith. All of the features disclosed in this specification
   (including any accompanying claims, abstract and drawings), and/or all of the steps of any
15 method or process so disclosed, may be combined in any combination, except combinations
   where at least some of such features and/or steps are mutually exclusive. The protection is
   not restricted to the details of any foregoing embodiments. The protection extends to any
   novel one, or any novel combination, of the features disclosed in this specification (including
   any accompanying claims, abstract and drawings), or to any novel one, or any novel
20 combination, of the steps of any method or process so disclosed.
                [0149]               While certain embodiments have been described, these embodiments have
   been presented by way of example only, and are not intended to limit the scope of protection.
   Indeed, the novel methods and systems described in this section or elsewhere in this
   specification may be embodied in a variety of other forms. Furthermore, various omissions,
25 substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described in this section or
   elsewhere in this specification may be made. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   some embodiments, the actual steps taken in the processes illustrated and/or disclosed may
   differ from those shown in the figures. Depending on the embodiment, certain of the steps
   described above may be removed, others may be added.                          Furthermore, the features and
                                                              -44
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   attributes of the specific embodiments disclosed above may be combined in different ways to
   form additional embodiments, all of which fall within the scope of the present disclosure.
                [0150]               Although the present disclosure includes certain embodiments, examples
   and applications, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure
 5 extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments
   and/or uses and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof, including embodiments
   which do not provide all of the features and advantages set forth in this section or elsewhere
   in this specification. Accordingly, the scope of the present disclosure is not intended to be
   limited by the specific disclosures of preferred embodiments in this section or elsewhere in
10 this specification, and may be defined by claims as presented in this section or elsewhere in
   this specification or as presented in the future.
                [0151]               In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
   invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used
15 in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                              -45
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site of a
   patient, comprising the steps of:
                percutaneously accessing target tissue with a tubular needle having a sharpened distal
 5 tip and a visualization element therein, the accessing step accomplished with the sharpened
   distal tip positioned distally of the visualization element;
                blunting the sharpened distal tip;
                visualizing the target tissue; and
                wherein the distal end of the visualization element is biased against an inner diameter
10 of the tubular needle.
         2. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, wherein blunting the sharpened tip comprises retracting the sharpened distal tip
   proximally of a distal end of the visualization element following the accessing step.
         3.     A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
15 Claim 2, wherein the bias is configured to press the distal end of the visualization element
   laterally against the inner diameter of the distal end of the tubular needle to protect tissue
   from damage.
         4. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, wherein the accessing target tissue step comprises accessing an orthopedic joint
20 capsule.
         5.     A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 4, wherein the blunting step is accomplished following entry of the sharpened end into
   the joint capsule.
         6. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
25 Claim 0, wherein the accessing target tissue step comprises accessing tissue within a
   vertebral disc.
         7. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, wherein the accessing target tissue step comprises accessing tissue within a
   pericardium.
                                                      -46
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

         8.     A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, additionally comprising the step of flushing the target tissue.
         9. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, additionally comprising the step of capturing images of the target tissue.
 5        10. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 9, wherein the images are captured along a primary viewing axis residing at an angle
   of at least about 5 degrees from a longitudinal axis of the tubular needle.
          11. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 10, wherein the images are captured along a primary viewing axis residing at an angle
10 of at least about 10 degrees from the longitudinal axis of the tubular needle.
          12. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, additionally comprising the step of injecting therapeutic media.
          13. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 4, additionally comprising the step of injecting therapeutic media into the orthopedic
15 joint capsule.
          14. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
   Claim 0, additionally comprising the step of aspirating fluid from the location of the target
   tissue.
          15. A minimally invasive method of accessing and visualizing an internal target site as in
20 Claim 0, additionally comprising the step of displaying real time images on a video screen.
          16. A method of visualizing an internal tissue site, comprising:
                providing a visualization needle, the visualization needle comprising:
                              an elongate tubular needle, extending along a longitudinal axis between a
                proximal end comprising a handpiece and a distal end comprising a sharpened           tip,
25                            an elongate optical element extending through the needle,
                              wherein the elongate optical element is biased against an inner diameter of
   the elongate tubular needle; and
                              guiding the visualization needle through tissue to reach an internal tissue
                site.
                                                           -47
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AU.1

          17. The method of Claim 16, wherein the bias is configured to press the distal end of the
   elongate optical element against the distal end of the elongate tubular needle to providing
   blunting of the elongate tubular needle
          18. The method of Claim 17, wherein an outer diameter of the distal end of the elongate
 5 optical element is biased against an inner diameter of the point of the sharpened tip of the
   needle.
          19. The method of Claim 0, wherein the handpiece comprises a control, the control
   configured to axially move the needle between a proximal position in which the sharpened tip
   is proximal to the distal end of the optical element, and a distal position where the sharpened
10 tip is distal to the distal end of the optical element.
         20. The method of Claim 0, wherein the blunting is configured to prevent damage to an
   internal tissue site.
         21. The method of Claim 19, wherein axial proximal movement of the probe deflects the
   distal end of the optical element laterally by at least about 3 degrees.
15       22. The method of Claim 0, wherein the optical element has an outside diameter that is
   smaller than an inside diameter of the tubular needle to define a lumen extending the length
   of the tubular needle, the lumen configured to provide aspiration or irrigation to the distal end
   of the elongate tubular needle.
         23. The method of Claim 22, wherein the lumen is in communication with an injection or
20 aspiration port located in the handpiece.
         24. The method of Claim 0, wherein the handpiece is configured to wirelessly
   communicate with an external viewing device.
         25. The method of Claim 0, wherein the sharpened tip comprises a reverse grind, the
   reverse grind providing blunting at an outer diameter of the needle and sharpening at an inner
25 diameter of the needle.
         26. The method of Claim 0, wherein the handpiece further comprises a memory chip
   comprising an algorithm configured to correct an image artifact.
         27. The method of Claim 26, wherein the algorithm is uniquely generated for an
   individual visualization needle.
                                                     -48
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

         28. The method of Claim 0, wherein the handpiece further comprises a memory chip
   configured to store data on the characteristics of the visualization needle.
         29. The method of Claim 28, wherein the characteristics are selected from the group
   consisting of LED illumination performance data, correction algorithms for correction of a
 5 lens, and correction information for chromatic aberrations of an image sensor.
         30. The method of Claim 0, wherein the distal end of the optical element is configured to
   provide illumination.
         31. The method of Claim 30, wherein illumination is provided by a plurality of LEDs
   located at the distal end of the optical element.
10       32. The method of Claim 31, wherein illumination is provided by a plurality of LEDs
   located in the handpiece.
         33. The method of Claim 31, wherein an LED is configured to provide light in a
   wavelength outside the visible spectrum.
         34. The method of Claim 31, wherein the LED is configured to provide light in the UV
15 spectrum.
         35. The method of Claim 30, wherein illumination is provided by a plurality of LEDs
   positioned in the optical element adjacent to an image sensor, the illumination transmitted to
   the distal end of the optical element by fiber optics.
         36. The method of Claim 30, wherein the distal end of the optical element comprises a
20 diffusion element, the diffusion element configured to provide uniform illumination.
         37. The method of Claim 0, wherein the visualization needle further comprises an
   integrated articulation mechanism, the integrated articulation mechanism configured to
   provide movement to the distal end of the optical element.
25
                                                  -49
   9695154 1 (GHMatters)P103607.AL.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
