Abstract
Disclosed herein are novel lipids and liposomal compositions prepared using such compounds
and related methods of neutralizing or otherwise modifying such liposomal compositions. The
lipids described herein are useful for example, as liposomal vehicles to facilitate the delivery
of encapsulated polynucleotides to target cells and the subsequent transfection of such target
cells. In certain embodiments, one or more of the compounds that comprise the liposomal
delivery vehicle may be neutralized or further modified such that the properties of the
liposomal delivery vehicle are modified.

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
                    LIPID-DERIVED NEUTRAL NANOPARTICLES
                                RELATED APPLICATIONS
  [0001]           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
  61/617,478, filed on March 29, 2012, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein
  by reference.
                                      BACKGROUND
  [0002]           The use of liposomal delivery vehicles to facilitate the site-specific
  delivery of therapeutic agents represents a rapidly emerging field of drug delivery;
  however, the efficient delivery of therapeutic agents to targeted cells and tissues, as
  well as the subsequent transfection of such targeted cells and tissues remains a
  technical challenge. Despite the availability of multiple lipids and liposomal-based
  delivery systems to facilitate the delivery of therapeutic agents to target cells and
  tissues, many challenges still exist in both in vivo and in vitro applications. For
  example, a significant drawback of liposomal-based delivery systems relates to the
  construction of liposomes that have sufficient stability and the ability of such
  liposomes to efficiently release their encapsulated contents to targeted cells and
  tissues.
  [0003]           With respect to the development of liposomal delivery vehicles for use
  in delivering nucleic acids, the incorporation of cationic lipids as a component of a
  liposomal vehicle represents an important advancement. Properties of cationic
  liposomes, which include for example, their stability, size and surface charge, make
  them ideal carriers for encapsulating and delivering negatively charged nucleic acids
  to target cells and tissues. The cationic components (e.g., cationic lipids and/or
  cationic polymers) that comprise such cationic liposomal vehicles facilitate the
  interaction between the lipid bilayer of the liposome and the negatively charged
  nucleic acids, and thereby enhance the encapsulation efficiency of such cationic
  liposomal vehicles. In part due to their positive surface charge, liposomes prepared
  comprising cationic lipids (e.g., 1,2-dioleoyl-3-trimethylammonium-propane
  (DOTAP)) have demonstrated an ability to be efficiently loaded with negatively
  charged nucleic acids and, the use of cationic liposomal vehicles may facilitate the
                                              1

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  encapsulation of nucleic acids at concentrations that well exceed those which would
  be achieved using neutral liposomal vehicles. For example, in certain instances,
  cationic lipid nanoparticle systems may be characterized as having encapsulation
  efficiencies approaching 100% when loaded with negatively charged nucleic acids.
  (See, e.g., Li, et al. Pharm Res., 2007, 24: 438-449.)
  [0004]           Many cationic lipids employed to construct such liposomal vehicles
  however, are generally toxic and accordingly, may be of limited utility, particularly in
  the quantities necessary to deliver therapeutically effective quantities of their
  encapsulated contents (e.g., nucleic acids). Further limiting the utility of charged
  liposomal systems, following their administration to a subject, such charged systems
  may be rapidly cleared from the systemic circulation and thereby limit their
  distribution and accumulation in targeted cells and tissues. To overcome the technical
  challenges associated with the use of cationic liposomal vehicles, the use of multi
  component liposomal delivery systems has been employed. In particular, the
  preparation of liposomal vehicles using ionizable lipids has been employed as a
  means of modulating the charge of a liposome in response to the changing pH of an
  environment (e.g., physiological pH) to which the liposome is exposed. Such
  ionizable lipids therefore accommodate changes in their surface charge, which may be
  manipulated, for example, to enhance the encapsulation efficiency of the liposome.
  [0005]           Despite the foregoing limitations, and as a result of their ability to
  facilitate the delivery of encapsulated materials to target cells, liposomal-based
  vehicles are an attractive carrier for therapeutic agents and remain subject to
  continued development efforts. While liposomal-based vehicles that comprise a
  cationic lipid component have shown promising results with regards to encapsulation
  and stability, there remains a great need for improved liposomal-based delivery
  systems.
  [0006]            In contrast to charged liposomal-based vehicles, neutral liposomal
  vehicles are generally characterized as having relatively improved pharmacokinetic
  properties. However, in part due to the low encapsulation efficiency observed with
  neutral liposomes, there have been limited studies performed investigating the use of
  neutral liposomes to deliver therapeutic agents to target cells. There remains a need
  for novel lipids that incorporate a multi-functional approach for delivering
  encapsulated nucleic acids and polynucleotides. Particularly needed are lipid
                                               2

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  nanoparticles that retain some of the beneficial characteristics of both neutral and
  charged liposomal delivery systems.
                                          SUMMARY
  [0007]           Described herein are novel lipids and liposomal compositions that
  comprise such lipids. Also disclosed are methods of using such lipids (e.g., cleavable
  cationic lipids) as a component of a liposomal composition to facilitate the
  encapsulation of one or more therapeutic agents (e.g., therapeutic polynucleotides) in
  such liposomal compositions. Methods of preparing neutral liposomal compositions
  that are characterized as having high encapsulation efficiencies (e.g., relative to
  traditional neutral liposomal compositions) are also disclosed herein. The novel
  methods, lipids and compositions described herein employ a multifunctional strategy
  to facilitate the encapsulation of one or more therapeutic agents into a neutral
  liposomal composition and the subsequent transfection of one or more target cells
  with such liposomal composition.
  [0008]           Disclosed herein are novel lipids and related methods of using such
  lipids to modulate the properties (e.g., surface charge) of for example, liposomal
  vehicles (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) into which such novel lipids are incorporated. For
  example, in certain embodiments, the present inventions relate to methods of
  manipulating a liposomal vehicle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) comprising at least one
  lipid having a releasable polar head-group, such method comprising a step of
  contacting the liposomal vehicle with one or more agents to cause the release of the
  polar head-group from the at least one lipid. In some embodiments, upon the release
  of such polar head-group from the lipid, the surface charge of the remaining liposomal
  vehicle is modified. For example, following release of the polar head-group from the
  lipid, the liposomal vehicle may have an overall neutral surface charge (e.g., a net
  surface charge or zeta potential of about -2.5 to about +2.5mV). Alternatively,
  following release of the polar head-group from the lipid, the liposomal vehicle may
  have an overall negative surface charge (e.g., a net surface charge or zeta potential
  less than about -25mV).
  [0009]           In certain embodiments, the lipids disclosed herein generally comprise
  a polar head-group (e.g., represented as an R1 group) which is bound to a lipophilic
  tail-group (e.g., represented as an R 2 group) by way of a linker group. In some
                                               3

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  embodiments, the linker group is (or comprises a functional group that is) susceptible
  to chemical or enzymatic cleavage (e.g., by reduction or by hydrolysis) upon exposure
  to one or more agents or environments (e.g., upon exposure to an acidic environment
  or reducing conditions). In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a
  method of neutralizing or otherwise modifying a liposomal composition. Generally,
  such liposomal compositions comprise at least one lipid that has a releasable head
  group, a tail-group and a cleavable linker group having the structure of formula I:
                                             IR
                                                                                  (I)
  wherein R1 is the releasable (polar) head-group and is selected from the group
  consisting of imidazole, guanidinium, imine, enamine, amino, an optionally
  substituted alkyl amino (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and an
  optionally-substituted pyridyl (e.g., pyridine or nitropyridyl); wherein R 2 is a
  lipophilic or non-polar group selected from the group consisting of:
                                                                                  (II), and
                                                        OR3
                                                0
                                                   R4       4                     (III);
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C2 0 acyl; wherein x is a cleavable
  linker group comprising a functional group selected from the group consisting of a
  disulfide, ester, hydrazone, imine, acetal, ketal, cis-aconityl, ortho-ester, anhydride,
  beta-thiopropionate, vinyl ether, phosphoramidate, GLFG, Val-Cit, GG, AA, GGGF
  and PVGLIG; and wherein n is zero or any positive integer.
                                              4

WO 2013/149141                                                            PCT/US2013/034604
  [0010]          In certain embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise a step
  of contacting the lipid or liposomal composition with one or more agents such that the
  polar head-group (R1 ) may be cleaved or otherwise liberated from one or more of the
  cleavable lipids that comprise the liposomal composition (e.g., by reduction of the
  cleavable linker group), thereby causing the lipophilic R 2 group to remain as a
  component of the liposomal composition. Cleavage and/or release of the polar R1
  group from the lipid causes the overall charge of the remaining lipid (and liposomal
  composition which the lipid is a component) to be modified, and in certain instances
  causes the liposomal composition to be neutralized.
  [0011]          In certain embodiments, the cleavable linker group is reduced or
  cleaved and the polar head-group liberated upon contacting the lipid with an agent or
  environment (e.g., a reducing agent or acidic conditions). Contemplated agents
  include reducing agents, for example, aqueous solutions comprising one or more of
  tris (2-carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP), p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME), dithiothreitol
  (DTT), glutathione and dithioerythritol. An appropriate reducing agent may be
  selected based on the nature of the cleavable linker group that comprises the lipid.
  For example, a lipid comprising linker group that is susceptible to enzymatic
  digestion may be contacted with or otherwise exposed to an appropriate enzyme to
  facilitate cleavage of the polar head-group from the lipid. For example, in certain
  embodiments such enzymes may include one or more of the enzymes selected from
  the group consisting of alkaline phosphatase, carboxypeptidase G2, cytosine
  deaminase, nitroreductase, P-glucuronidase, a-galactosidase, thioredoxin and gamma
  interferon inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (GILT). Alternatively, in other
  embodiments the cleavable linker group may comprise an ester functional group, and
  the corresponding agent may comprise a compound or agent capable of readily
  hydrolyzing such ester functional group.
  [0012]          In some embodiments, the degree to which the properties (e.g., surface
  charge or the average zeta potential) of the liposomal composition are modified is a
  function of the selected reducing agents to which the liposomal composition is
  exposed and/or the duration of such exposure. In certain embodiments, the liposomal
  composition is contacted with the reducing agent from between about five minutes to
  about twenty four hours (e.g., at least about one minute, two minutes, three minutes,
  four minutes, five minutes, six minutes, seven minutes, eight minutes, nine minutes,
                                              5

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  ten minutes, twelve minutes, fifteen minutes, thirty minutes, forty-five minutes, one
  hour, three hours, six hours, eight hours, twelve hours, sixteen hours, eighteen hours,
  twenty four hours, or longer). For example, a lipid nanoparticle prepared in
  accordance with the present invention may have an average zeta potential       (Zave) of at
  least about +25mV prior to contacting the lipid nanoparticle with the one or more
  reducing agents. In certain embodiments, the positive charge of the lipid nanoparticle
  may facilitate encapsulation or loading of one or more therapeutic agents, and in
  particular negatively charged therapeutic agents (e.g., therapeutic nucleic acids
  encoding a functional protein or enzyme). For example, the liposomal compositions
  prepared in accordance with the methods disclosed herein may demonstrate high
  encapsulation efficiencies (e.g., at least 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
  87.5%, 90%, 92.5%, 95%, 97.5%, 98%, 99%, 99.5% or more). Similarly, the
  liposomal compositions prepared in accordance with the methods disclosed herein
  may be characterized with respect to the average concentration of one or more
  therapeutic agents encapsulated in such compositions. For example, in certain
  embodiments, the average concentration of therapeutic agent encapsulated in a
  liposomal composition prepared in accordance with the present inventions is between
  about 0.025 pg/mL to about 250pg/mL (e.g., at least about 0.05 pg/mL, 0.1 pg/mL,
  0.25pg/mL, 0.5pg/mL, 1pg/mL, 2.5pg/mL, 5pg/mL, 10pg/mL, 15pg/mL, 20pg/mL,
  25pg/mL, 50pg/mL, 75pg/mL, 100pg/mL, 150pg/mL, 200pg/mL, or more).
  [0013]           Once loaded with the one or more therapeutic agents, the physical
  properties of the liposomal compositions may be further modified. For example, the
  surface charge of a positively charged liposomal composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticles
  having a  Zave  greater than about +20mV) may be reduced or neutralized (e.g.,
  reducing the   Zave to less than about +10mV) based on one or more objectives, such as
  the characteristics of target cells or tissues. In certain embodiments, the physical
  properties of the liposomal composition are modulated by contacting the liposomal
  composition with an aqueous solution comprising one or more reducing agents.
  Contacting the liposomal composition with such reducing agents causes one or more
  of the cleavable linker groups of the lipid to be cleaved, resulting in the dissociation
  of the polar head-group (R1 ) from the lipophilic group (R2 ) of the lipid and a
  corresponding reduction of the     Zave of the remaining liposomal composition. In
  certain embodiments, after exposure to a reducing agent the     Zave of the liposomal
                                                 6

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  composition is between about +1OmV to about -20mV (e.g., +1OmV, +7.5mV, +5mV,
  +4mV, +3mV, +2.5mV, +2mV, +1mV, +0.5mV, OmV, -0.5mV, -lmV, -2mV,
  2.5mV, -3mV, -4mV, -5mV, -7.5mV, -1OmV, -12.5mV, -15mV or -20mV). In
  certain embodiments, after exposure to a reducing agent, the Zave of the liposomal
  composition is between about -50mV to about -5mV.
  [0014]           The ability to modulate one or more of the physical properties of a
  liposomal composition (e.g., the ability to reduce the Zave) relates to the composition
  of the constituent lipids that comprise such composition, and in particular relates to
  the presence of one or more cleavable linker groups that comprise the constituent
  lipids that comprise such liposomal composition. In certain embodiments, one or
  more of the constituent lipids that comprise the liposomal composition comprises a
  cleavable disulfide (S-S) linker group, as represented, for example, by the following
  structure:
                             R         4    S-S* R2
                                              n                   (IV)
  wherein R1 is a releasable (polar) head-group selected from the group consisting of
  imidazole, guanidinium, imine, enamine, amino, an optionally-substituted alkyl amino
  (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and an optionally-substituted pyridine or
  pyridyl (e.g., pyridine or nitropyridyl); wherein R 2 is a tail-group selected from the
  group consisting of:
                                                                                  (II), and
                                              7

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
                                                         R3
                                               0
                                                 R4                              (m);
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C2 0 acyl; and wherein n is zero or any
  positive integer.
  [0015]           Upon contacting the lipid (or a liposomal composition that comprises
  such lipid) with one or more agents (e.g., an aqueous solution comprising at least one
  agent capable of reductively cleaving the disulfide linker group), the disulfide linker
  group is cleaved from the lipid and a polar group represented by the following
  structure is liberated:
                                    R                 H
                                                          (V),
  wherein R1 is the releasable head-group selected from the group consisting of
  imidazole, guanidinium, imine, enamine, amino, an optionally-substituted alkyl amino
  (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and an optionally substituted pyridyl;
  and the physical properties of the lipid (and the liposomal composition of which the
  lipid is a component) thereby modified (e.g., neutralized).
  [0016]           In certain embodiments, following exposure of the lipid, and in
  particular the cleavable disulfide linker group that comprises the lipid, to one or more
  reducing agents (e.g., p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME)) a thiol group, as represented by the
  following structure, remains as a component of the liposomal composition:
                                  H-SI
                                                                                 (VI),
  wherein R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                                              8

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
                                                                               (II), and
                                                          R3
                                              0
                                                 R44                           (III)
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C 2 0 acyl.
  [0017]          Also disclosed herein are additional means of further modifying the
  physical and chemical properties of one or more lipids that have been reductively
  modified or neutralized. In certain embodiments, the sulfhydryl group that comprises
  the remaining thiol group of the lipid may be further reacted with one or more
  additional compounds to further modify the physical and/or chemical properties of the
  reduced liposomal composition. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, after having
  reductively neutralized the lipid component of the liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid
  nanoparticle), the remaining sulfhydryl groups coating the external surface of the
  modified (e.g., neutralized) liposomal composition may be further reacted to
  introduce additional chemistries or functional groups. For example, the remaining
  thiol group of the modified or neutral lipid may be contacted or otherwise reacted
  with a secondary agent, structure or compound represented by the following structure:
                                                SH
                                                nH                             (VII),
  wherein R5 is a targeting ligand selected from the group consisting of a peptide, an
  aptamer, a vitamin and an oligonucleotide. In certain embodiments, the reduced lipid
                                              9

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  is contacted with the secondary agent or structure under oxidative conditions such that
  a disulfide bond is formed and the neutral lipid thereby further modified. The
  modified lipid may be represented by the following structure:
                                                                                (VIII);
  wherein R5 is selected from the group consisting of a polymer (e.g., polyethylene
  glycol), a peptide, a targeting ligand (e.g., apolipoprotein-B, apolipoprotein-E,
  glucose, galactose and/or mannose), an alkyl (e.g., an optionally substituted, variably
  saturated or unsaturated C1 -C2 0 alkyl) and a capping structure; wherein n is zero or
  any positive integer; and wherein R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                                                                                (II), and
                                                          R3
                                                0
                                                  R44                           (III);
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C 2 0 acyl.
  [0018]          For example, in certain embodiments, the modified lipid may be
  represented by one of the following structures:
                                               10

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
                           R5               S
                                                       N                        (IX), or
                                                                     NO2
                           R5
                                      n                 N
                                                               /
                                                                                (X),
  wherein R5 is selected from the group consisting of a polymer (e.g., polyethylene
  glycol), a peptide, a targeting ligand (e.g., apolipoprotein-B, apolipoprotein-E,
  glucose, galactose and/or mannose), an alkyl (e.g., an optionally substituted, variably
  saturated or unsaturated C1 -C 2 0 alkyl) and a capping structure and wherein n is zero or
  any positive integer. In other embodiments, the thiol group of a modified or neutral
  lipid may be contacted or otherwise reacted under suitable conditions (e.g., oxidative
  conditions) with a secondary agent, structure or compound represented by one or
  more of the structures (IX) and/or (X) depicted above.
  [0019]          In certain embodiments, the cleavable lipids relate to one or more of
  the lipid compounds and related methods disclosed in co-owned U.S. Application No.
  61/494,745 (Attorney Docket No.: SHIR-022-001) the contents of which are
  incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. For example, in some
  embodiments, the cleavable lipid is the compound 5-(((10,13-dimethyl-17-(6
  methylheptan-2-yl)-2,3,4,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17-tetradecahydro-1H
  cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl)disulfanyl)methyl)- 1H-imidazole, having the structure
  of formula XI (referred to herein as "HGT400 1").
                                H
                                N        S-S
                                N
                                  (XI)
  [0020]          In some embodiments, the cleavable lipid is the compound 1-(2
                                               11

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  (((3 S, 1OR, 13R)- 10,13 -dimethyl- 17-((R)-6-methylheptan-2-yl)
  2,3,4,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17-tetradecahydro- 1H-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3
  yl)disulfanyl)ethyl)guanidine, having the structure of formula XII (referred to herein
  as "HGT4002").
                                 H
                         HNyN _9_SjC0
                              NH2
                             (XII)
  [0021]            In some embodiments, the cleavable lipid is the compound 2-((2,3
  Bis((9Z, 12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien- 1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)-N,N
  dimethylethanamine, having the structure of formula XIII (referred to herein as
  "HGT4003").
             N   -,
           (XIII)
  [0022]            In yet other embodiments, the cleavable lipid is the compound 5-(((2,3
  bis((9Z,12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien-1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)methyl)-1H-imidazole
  having the structure of formula XIV (referred to herein as "HGT4004").
             H
             N
                      s-s
            N
           (XIV)
  [0023]            In still other embodiments, the cleavable lipid is the compound 1
  (((2,3-bis((9Z,12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien-1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)methyl)guanidine
                                               12

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  having the structure of Formula XV (referred to herein as "HGT4005").
                NH2
           HN      N     SNS-S
                   H
  (XV)
  [0024]           The methods, lipids and liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) described herein may be used to deliver one or more therapeutic agents
  to target cells, organs and tissues (e.g., hepatocytes). In certain embodiments, the
  contemplated therapeutic agents comprise one or more therapeutic nucleic acids or
  polynucleotides (e.g., DNA or RNA). Accordingly, disclosed herein are methods and
  compositions for modulating the expression of one or more nucleic acids in a subject.
  In certain embodiments, such therapeutic nucleic acids comprise or consist of RNA
  (e.g., mRNA, siRNA, snoRNA or microRNA).
  [0025]           Also disclosed herein are methods of encapsulating one or more
  therapeutic agents in a neutral liposomal composition. Such methods generally
  comprise a step of loading the liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle
  comprising the cleavable lipid HGT4002, DMG-PEG2000, cholesterol and DOPE)
  with the one or more therapeutic agents and contacting the liposomal composition
  with one or more reducing agents such that the liposomal composition is modified or
  neutralized. In a preferred embodiment, the liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid
  nanoparticle comprising one or more cleavable lipids, a PEG-modified lipid and a
  helper lipid) prepared in accordance with such methods are loaded with one or more
  therapeutic agents prior to being contacted with a reducing agent or otherwise
  undergoing further modification (e.g., neutralization).
  [0026]           In certain embodiments, the lipid compounds disclosed herein are
  cationic and/or ionizable lipids, that may be used as a liposomal composition or
  alternatively as component of a liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle). In
  certain embodiments, the compounds disclosed herein are used to enrich a liposomal
  composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticles), thereby conferring improved properties to such
  enriched liposomal composition (e.g., improved delivery of encapsulated
  polynucleotides to one or more target cells and/or reduced in vivo toxicity of a
                                               13

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  liposomal composition). Accordingly, also contemplated are liposomal compositions,
  and in particular lipid nanoparticles, that comprise one or more of the lipids disclosed
  herein. In certain embodiments, such liposomal compositions comprise one or more
  of a PEG-modified lipid, a non-cationic lipid and a helper lipid.
  [0027]           In certain embodiments one or more of the liposomal compositions
  described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) comprise one or more additional lipids.
  For example, lipid nanoparticles that comprise or are otherwise enriched with one or
  more of the cleavable lipid compounds disclosed herein may further comprise one or
  more of DOTAP (1,2-dioleyl-3-trimethylammonium propane), DODAP (1,2-dioleyl
  3-dimethylammonium propane), DOTMA (1,2-di-O-octadecenyl-3
  trimethylammonium propane), DLinDMA, DLin-KC2-DMA, C12-200 and ICE. In
  one embodiment the liposomal composition is a lipid nanoparticle that comprises
  HGT4001, DOPE and DMG-PEG2000.               In another embodiment the liposomal
  composition is a lipid nanoparticle that comprises HGT4003, DOPE, cholesterol and
  DMG-PEG2000.
  [0028]           In certain embodiments one or more of the liposomal compositions
  described herein may comprise one or more PEG-modified lipids. For example, lipid
  nanoparticles that comprise or are otherwise enriched with one or more of the lipid
  compounds disclosed herein may further comprise one or more of PEG-modified
  lipids that comprise a poly(ethylene)glycol chain of up to 5kDa in length covalently
  attached to a lipid comprising one or more C6 -C 2 0 alkyls.
  [0029]           Similarly, the liposomal compositions disclosed herein (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) may comprise or may otherwise be enriched with one or more of the
  lipid compounds disclosed herein and may further comprise one or more of helper
  lipids that are selected from the group consisting of DSPC (1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero
  3-phosphocholine), DPPC (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine), DOPE
  (1,2-dioleyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine), DPPE (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero
  3-phosphoethanolamine), DMPE (1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3
  phosphoethanolamine), DOPG (,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(l'-rac-glycerol)),
  DOPE (1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3 -phosphoethanolamine ), DSPE (1,2-distearoyl-sn
  glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine ), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3
  phosphoethanolamine ), DPPS (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3 -phospho-L-serine),
  ceramides, sphingomyelins and cholesterol.
                                              14

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  [00301           In certain embodiments, the cleavable lipids and the liposomal
  compositions comprising such lipids (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) comprise one or more
  polynucleotides (e.g., encapsulated DNA or RNA). In other embodiments, the one or
  more polynucleotides comprise at least one locked nucleic acid (e.g., two, three, four,
  five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, twelve, fifteen, sixteen, eighteen, twenty, or more
  locked nucleic acid residues or monomers). Where the one or more encapsulated
  polynucleotides comprise RNA, such RNA may include, for example, mRNA,
  siRNA, snoRNA, microRNA, and combinations thereof.
  [0031]           In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides encapsulated in the
  pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions hereof comprise mRNA encoding, for
  example, a functional polypeptide, protein or enzyme, and upon being expressed (i.e.,
  translated) by one or more target cells a functional polypeptide product (e.g., a protein
  or enzyme) is produced, and in some instances secreted by the target cell into the
  peripheral circulation of a subject. In certain embodiments, the one or more of the
  polynucleotides that comprise (or are otherwise loaded or encapsulated into) the
  compounds and pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions described herein encode
  a nucleic acid (e.g., a polypeptide) which is aberrantly expressed by the subject. In
  certain embodiments, the one or more of the encapsulated polynucleotides that
  comprise such compounds or liposomal compositions (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle)
  encode a functional protein or enzyme such as a urea cycle enzyme (e.g., ornithine
  transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS 1),
  argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or arginase 1
  (ARG 1)). In certain embodiments the one or more of the encapsulated
  polynucleotides comprises mRNA encoding an enzyme associated with a lysosomal
  storage disorder (e.g., the encapsulated polynucleotide is mRNA encoding one or
  more of the enzymes alpha galactosidase A, iduronate-2-sulfatase, iduronate sulfatase,
  N-acetylglucosamine- 1-phosphate transferase, beta-glucosidase and
  galactocerebrosidase). In other embodiments where the nucleic acids comprise
  mRNA, such mRNA may encode one or more proteins or enzymes, for example,
  proteins or enzymes that may be deficient in a subject (e.g., an enzyme or protein
  selected from the group of enzymes consisting of erythropoietin, human growth
  hormone, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), alpha-L
  iduronidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, alpha-glucosaminide acetyltransferase, N
                                                15

WO 2013/149141                                                                 PCT/US2013/034604
  acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase, N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase, galactose-6-sulfate
  sulfatase, beta-galactosidase, beta-glucuronidase, glucocerebrosidase, heparan
  sulfamidase, heparin-N-sulfatase, lysosomal acid lipase, acid alpha-glucosidase,
  arylsulfatase A and hyaluronidase).
  [0032]           Also contemplated herein are pharmaceutical and liposomal
  compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) that comprise one or more of the lipid
  compounds disclosed herein and one or more polynucleotides (e.g., antisense
  oligonucleotides), and in particular polynucleotides that comprises one or more
  chemical modifications. For example, in certain embodiments where the
  polynucleotide is mRNA, such chemical modifications render the mRNA more stable
  and may comprise, for example an end blocking modification of a 5' or 3'untranslated
  region of the mRNA. In certain embodiments, the chemical modification comprises
  the inclusion of a partial sequence of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IEl) gene to the 5'
  untranslated region of the mRNA. In other embodiments the chemical modification
  comprises the inclusion of a poly A tail to the 3' untranslated region of the mRNA.
  Also contemplated are chemical modifications that comprise the inclusion of a Cap 1
  structure to the 5' untranslated region of the mRNA. In still other embodiments, the
  chemical modification comprises the inclusion of a sequence encoding human growth
  hormone (hGH) to the 3' untranslated region of the mRNA.
  [0033]           The lipids and liposomal compositions described herein may be
  formulated to specifically target and/or transfect one or more target cells, tissues and
  organs. In certain embodiments, such lipids and liposomal compositions facilitate the
  transfection of such target cells by one or more mechanisms (e.g., fusogenic-based
  release and/or proton-sponge mediated disruption of the lipid-bilayer membrane of the
  target cells). Contemplated target cells include, for example, one or more cells
  selected from the group consisting of hepatocytes, hematopoietic cells, epithelial
  cells, endothelial cells, lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells, neural
  cells, cardiac cells, adipocytes, vascular smooth muscle cells, cardiomyocytes,
  skeletal muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells, synovial lining cells, ovarian cells,
  testicular cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes, leukocytes, granulocytes and
  tumor cells.
  [0034]           Also disclosed are methods of treating disease (e.g., a disease
  associated with the aberrant expression of a gene or nucleic acid) in a subject, wherein
                                                16

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  the method comprises administering one or more of the lipids and/or liposomal
  compositions described herein to the subject. Also contemplated are methods of
  transfecting one or more target cells with one or more polynucleotides, wherein the
  method comprises contacting the one or more target cells with the lipids or liposomal
  compositions described herein such that the one or more target cells are transfected
  with the one or more polynucleotides encapsulated therein.
  [0035]          The above discussed and many other features and attendant advantages
  of the present invention will become better understood by reference to the following
  detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the
  accompanying examples. The various embodiments described herein are
  complimentary and can be combined or used together in a manner understood by the
  skilled person in view of the teachings contained herein.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [00361          Figure 1. illustrates one embodiment of the present invention whereby
  a lipid nanoparticle that comprises a cleavable disulfide (S-S) cationic lipid and
  which is loaded with one or more therapeutic agents is contacted with a reducing
  agent. As depicted in FIG. 1, prior to contacting the lipid nanoparticle with a
  reducing agent, the surface of the lipid nanoparticle is positively charged by the
  ionizable cationic head-groups of the cleavable lipid. Contacting the lipid
  nanoparticle with the reducing agent causes the disulfide bond (S-S) of the cationic
  lipid to be cleaved and the cationic amino head-group of the cleavable lipid to
  dissociate from the lipid nanoparticle. In the depicted embodiment, the surface of the
  resultant lipid nanoparticle is rendered neutralized.
  [0037]          Figure 2. illustrates one embodiment of the present invention whereby
  a lipid nanoparticle that comprises a cleavable disulfide (S-S) cationic lipid and
  which is loaded with one or more therapeutic agents is neutralized by contacting it
  with a reducing agent. The neutralized lipid is further modified to introduce different
  functional groups or chemistries. As depicted in FIG. 2, prior to contacting the lipid
  nanoparticle with a reducing agent, the surface of the lipid nanoparticle is positively
  charged by the ionizable cationic head-groups of the cleavable lipid. Contacting the
  lipid nanoparticle with the reducing agent causes the disulfide bond (S-S) of the
                                             17

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  cationic lipid to be cleaved and the cationic amino head-groups of the cleavable lipid
  to dissociate from the lipid nanoparticle. The surface of the resultant lipid
  nanoparticle is rendered neutralized, and as illustrated is coated with sulfhydryl (-SH)
  functional groups, which may be further reacted to introduce additional functional
  groups or chemistries. As illustrated in FIG. 2, the neutralized lipid nanoparticle is
  contacted with a functional R group that is capable of reacting with the sulfhydryl (
  SH) functional groups coating the surface of the lipid nanoparticle and thereby binds
  the functional R group to the surface of the lipid nanoparticle by way of a newly
  formed disulfide bond.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
  [0038]           Provided herein are novel lipids and liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) prepared using such novel lipids. The compositions disclosed herein
  address many of the limitations associated with traditional surface charge neutral
  liposomal delivery systems, for example, the poor encapsulation efficiencies that are
  frequently associated with charge neural lipids. In certain instances, the inventions
  described herein generally relate to novel cleavable lipids (e.g., cleavable cationic
  lipids) and methods of using such lipids to facilitate the efficient encapsulation of one
  or more therapeutic agents (e.g., polynucleotides) in a liposomal composition (e.g., a
  lipid nanoparticle).
  [0039]           The pharmacokinetic properties and the ability of a systemically
  administered lipid- or liposomal-based composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) to
  reach a target cell, organ or tissue are frequently influenced by such composition's
  surface charge. For example, following systemic administration to a subject,
  liposomal compositions having a high surface charge are more likely to interact with
  certain cells, organs or macromolecules in the peripheral circulation, and thereby
  expedite the excretion of such liposomal compositions before they reach the target
  cells or tissues. As a result, the efficacy and utility of some liposomal-based
  composition and the therapeutic agents encapsulated therein may be significantly
  limited.
  [0040]           Lipid- and liposomal-based compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) that
  are characterized as being relatively charge neural frequently have demonstrated
                                               18

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  improved pharmacokinetic characteristics relative to their charged counterparts;
  however, such charge neutral liposomal compositions have been traditionally plagued
  with poor encapsulation efficiencies, particularly with respect to the encapsulation of
  nucleic acids or polynucleotides. For example, neutral lipids and surface charge
  neutral liposomal compositions prepared from such lipids demonstrate extremely low
  encapsulation efficiencies, which are frequently less than 10% with respect to nucleic
  acid-based therapies. There remains an art-recognized need for lipid nanoparticles
  that carry a relatively neutral surface charge and that demonstrated high encapsulation
  efficiencies.
  [0041]           Disclosed herein are novel lipids, liposomal compositions and related
  methods of use that demonstrate improved encapsulation efficiencies, the surface
  charges of which can be neutralized or otherwise modified. The lipids and related
  methods described herein therefore retain beneficial properties that are generally
  associated with charged lipids (e.g., high encapsulation efficiencies), and in certain
  embodiments can be designed to carry a relatively neutral surface charge.
  [0042]           In general, the lipids disclosed herein comprise a hydrophilic (polar)
  head-group which is bound to a lipophilic (non-polar) group by way of an
  intermediate linker group. Such lipids may be used to prepare liposomal
  compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) suitable for encapsulating one or more
  therapeutic agents (e.g., polynucleotides encoding a functional protein or enzyme). In
  certain embodiments, the linker group that comprises the lipids of the present
  invention can be cleaved, for example by exposure of the lipid to a reducing agent or
  environment, and the hydrophilic head-group liberated to thereby neutralize or
  otherwise modify the surface charge of the lipid or liposomal composition. In a
  preferred embodiment, the lipids of the present invention are formulated as a
  component of a liposomal composition and the surface charge of such composition
  neutralized or otherwise modified after a therapeutic agent has been encapsulated in
  such composition. Encapsulating the therapeutic agents within the liposomal
  composition while the surface of such composition is charged improves encapsulation
  efficiency.
  [0043]           In certain embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise a step
  of contacting the lipid (or the liposomal composition of which the lipid is a
  component) with one or more agents such that the polar head-group (R1) of the lipid
                                                19

WO 2013/149141                                                                  PCT/US2013/034604
  may be cleaved or otherwise released from one or more of the cleavable lipids that
  comprise the liposomal composition (e.g., by reduction of the cleavable linker group),
  thereby causing the lipophilic R2 group to remain as a component of the lipid
  nanoparticle. Cleavage and/or release of the polar head-group (R1 ) from the lipid
  causes the overall charge of the remaining lipid (and the liposomal composition of
  which the lipid is a component) to be modified, and in certain instances causes the
  lipid nanoparticle to be neutralized.
  [0044]           As used herein, the terms "neutral" and "neutralize" refer to a lipid,
  and in particular a liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) that is
  substantially surface charge neutral or that is rendered substantially surface charge
  neutral in accordance with the methods provided herein. For example, in certain
  embodiments, a cationic lipid disclosed herein may be used to prepare a liposomal
  composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) having a positive surface charge (e.g.,      Zave of
  about +30mV) and that encapsulates one or more polynucleotides. Such liposomal
  composition may be modified in accordance with the teachings provided herein such
  that the composition is rendered relatively neutralized (e.g.,    Zave between about
  3.OmV and +3.OmV). In certain embodiments, the neutral lipid nanoparticles
  described herein may be characterized as having a       Zave between about -1O.OmV and
  +10.OmV (e.g., about +10mV, +8mV, +7.5mV, +6mV, +5mV, +4mV, +3mV,
  +2.5mV, +2mV, +1mV, +0.5mV, +0.25mV, OmV, -0.25mV, -0.5mV, -lmV, -2mV,
  2.5mV, -3mV, -4mV, -5mV, -7.5mV or -10mV), or preferably between about -2.5mV
  and +2.5mV. Alternatively, in certain embodiments the modified lipid nanoparticles
  described herein may be characterized as having a       Zave between about -5mV to about
  -50mV.
  [0045]           The average zeta potential  (Zave) is indicative of the mean surface
  charge of a population of liposomal compositions and represents a measure of the
  mean electric charge of such liposomal composition. The         Zave affects particle size,
  particle stability, encapsulation efficiency and the pharmacokinetic properties of a
  liposomal composition. In certain embodiments where the therapeutic agent to be
  encapsulated comprises an anionic polynucleotide (e.g., mRNA encoding a functional
  enzyme) it may be more efficient to encapsulate such polynucleotide in a liposomal
  compositions that incorporates one or more cationic lipids of the present invention. In
  such an embodiment, the interaction with and encapsulation of the anionic
                                              20

WO 2013/149141                                                                   PCT/US2013/034604
  polynucleotide within the cationic lipid bilayer of the liposomal composition serves to
  enhance the encapsulation efficiency of the liposomal composition. In certain
  embodiments, once the therapeutic agent has been encapsulated, the surface charge of
  the liposomal composition may be modified (e.g., neutralized) in accordance with the
  teachings hereof.
  [00461          In certain embodiments, the lipids disclosed herein have the structure
  depicted by Formula I:
  wherein R1 represents the hydrophilic (polar) group and R2 represents the lipophilic
  (non-polar) group. In certain embodiments, R1 is selected from the group consisting
  of imidazole, guanidinium, imine, enamine, amino, an optionally-substituted alkyl
  amino (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and an optionally-substituted
  pyridyl. In certain embodiments, R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                                                                                     (II), and
                                                             R3
                                                  0
                                                     R4        4                     (III);
  and R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C2 0 acyl. In certain embodiments, n
  is zero or any positive integer (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
                                               21

WO 2013/149141                                                                  PCT/US2013/034604
   17, 18, 19, 20 or more). The lipids disclosed herein generally comprise a cleavable
  linker group, represented by x in formula I.
  [0047]          As used herein, the term "alkyl" refers to both straight and branched
  chain C1 C40 hydrocarbons (e.g., C6_C20 hydrocarbons), and include both saturated and
  unsaturated hydrocarbons. In certain embodiments, the alkyl may comprise one or
  more cyclic alkyls and/or one or more heteroatoms such as oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur
  and may optionally be substituted with substituents (e.g., one or more of alkyl, halo,
  alkoxyl, hydroxy, amino, aryl, ether, ester or amide). In certain embodiments, a
  contemplated alkyl includes (9Z, 12Z)-octadeca-9, 12-dien. The use of designations
  such as, for example, "C6 _C2 0 " is intended to refer to an alkyl (e.g., straight or
  branched chain and inclusive of alkenes and alkyls) having the recited range carbon
  atoms. As used herein, the term "aryl" refers to aromatic groups (e.g., monocyclic,
  bicyclic and tricyclic structures) containing six to ten carbons in the ring portion. The
  aryl groups may be optionally substituted through available carbon atoms and in
  certain embodiments may include one or more heteroatoms such as oxygen, nitrogen
  or sulfur.
  [0048]          As used herein, the phrase "linker group" refers to an organic
  functional moiety that is covalently bound to the hydrophilic (polar) head-group and
  the lipophilic (non-polar) tail-group. In accordance with certain embodiments of the
  present inventions, the linker group can be cleaved (e.g., by hydrolysis, reduction or
  enzymatically) upon being contacted with one or more agents, thereby causing the
  dissociation of the head-group from the remaining tail-group. It should be noted that
  the terms "head-group" and "tail-group" as used herein to describe the lipids of the
  present invention, and in particular functional groups that comprise such lipids, are
  used for ease of reference to describe the orientation of one or more functional groups
  relative to other functional groups. For example, in certain embodiments a
  hydrophilic head-group (e.g., guanidinium) is bound (e.g., by one or more of
  hydrogen-bonds, van der Waals' forces, ionic interactions and covalent bonds) to a
  cleavable linker group (e.g., a disulfide group), which in turn is bound to a
  hydrophobic tail-group (e.g., cholesterol).
  [0049]          In certain embodiments, at least one of the functional groups or
  moieties that comprise the lipids disclosed herein is hydrophobic in nature (e.g., a
  hydrophobic tail-group comprising a naturally-occurring lipid such as cholesterol).
                                               22

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  As used herein, the term "hydrophobic" is used to indicate in qualitative terms that a
  functional group is water-avoiding, and typically such groups are not water soluble.
  For example, disclosed herein are compounds that comprise a cleavable functional
  group (e.g., a disulfide (S-S) group) bound to one or more hydrophobic groups,
  wherein such hydrophobic groups comprise one or more naturally occurring lipids
  such as cholesterol, and/or an optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated
  C6 -C 2 0 alkyl and/or an optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C 2 0
  acyl.
  [0050]            In certain embodiments, at least one of the functional groups or
  moieties that comprise the lipids disclosed herein is hydrophilic in nature (e.g., a
  hydrophilic head-group comprising a cationic imidazole moiety). As used herein, the
  term "hydrophilic" is used to indicate in qualitative terms that a functional group is
  water-preferring, and typically such groups are water-soluble. For example, disclosed
  herein are compounds that comprise a cleavable disulfide (S-S) functional group
  bound to one or more hydrophilic groups (e.g., a hydrophilic head-group), wherein
  such hydrophilic groups comprise or are selected from the group consisting of
  imidazole, guanidinium, amino, imine, enamine, an optionally-substituted alkyl amino
  (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and pyridyl. In certain embodiments,
  the hydrophilic head-group of the lipid is charged (e.g., a cationic imidazole head
  group). Upon cleavage of such a charged linker group from the lipid in accordance
  with the teachings of the present invention, the hydrophilic head-group bound thereto
  is liberated from the lipid and the properties of the remaining lipid (or the liposomal
  composition of which such remaining lipid is a component) thereby modified (e.g.,
  neutralized).
  [0051]            In one embodiment, the present invention relates to a method of
  neutralizing or otherwise modifying a liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid
  nanoparticle) such that the surface charge of such composition is modified.
  Generally, such liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) comprise at least
  one lipid that has a head-group (e.g., a cationic head-group) that is bound (e.g.,
  covalently bound) to a linker group. In some embodiments, the linker group is (or
  comprises) a functional group that is susceptible to cleavage (e.g., chemical or
  enzymatic cleavage). Such cleavage may be catalyzed upon exposure to one or more
  agents or environments or conditions (e.g., by reduction, hydrolysis or any number of
                                               23

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  suitable mechanisms known to those of skill the art). The dissociation of the polar
  head-group from the lipid (e.g., as may be observed upon cleavage of the linker
  group) results in a modification of the charge of such lipid (or the liposomal
  composition of which such lipid is a component). In certain embodiments, the linker
  group comprises an ester functional group.
  [0052]          In certain embodiments, the lipid compounds disclosed herein
  generally comprise one or more cleavable linker groups. For example, such linker
  groups may comprise or consist of one or more disulfide (S-S) functional groups as
  depicted in Formula IV below:
                                  R1              S-S           R
                                                                               (IV),
  wherein R1 represents a hydrophilic (polar) head-group and R2 represents a lipophilic
  (non-polar) tail-group. In certain embodiments, R1 may be selected from the group
  consisting of imidazole, guanidinium, imine, enamine, amino, an optionally
  substituted alkyl amino (e.g., an alkyl amino such as dimethylamino) and an
  optionally-substituted pyridyl. In certain embodiments, R 2 may be selected from the
  group consisting of:
                                                                               (II), and
                                                        R3
                                              0
                                                 R4                            ()
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
                                             24

WO 2013/149141                                                                 PCT/US2013/034604
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C 2 0 acyl. In certain embodiments, n
  is 1 (such that the alkyl is ethyl), 2 (such that the alkyl is methyl), 3 (such that the
  alkyl is, for example, propyl or iso-propyl), 4 (such that the alkyl is, for example,
  butyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl or ter-butyl), 5 (such that the alkyl is, for example,
  pentane), 6 (such that the alkyl is, for example, hexane), 7 (such that the alkyl is, for
  example, heptane), 8 (such that the alkyl is, for example, octane), 9 (n such that the
  alkyl is, for example, nonane) or 10 (such that the alkyl is, for example, decane).
  [00531           As used herein to refer to a lipid or a linker group, the terms "cleave"
  and "cleavable" generally mean that one or more chemical bonds (e.g., one or more of
  covalent bonds, hydrogen-bonds, van der Waals' forces and/or ionic interactions)
  between atoms in or adjacent to the subject functional group (e.g., a disulfide linker
  group) are broken (e.g., hydrolyzed, reduced or oxidized) or are capable of being
  broken upon exposure to a selected agent or condition. For example, an acid-labile
  linker group may be cleavable upon exposure to acidic conditions (e.g., pH less than
  about 7.0). In certain embodiments, the cleavable group is a disulfide functional
  group, and in particular embodiments is a disulfide group that is capable of being
  cleaved upon exposure to selected biological conditions (e.g., intracellular
  conditions). In certain embodiments, the cleavable group is an ester functional group
  that is capable of being cleaved upon exposure to selected biological conditions. For
  example, a disulfide function groups may be cleaved enzymatically or by a
  hydrolysis, or alternatively upon exposure to reducing conditions. Upon cleavage of
  such disulfide functional group, the one or more functional moieties or groups (e.g., a
  head-group) that are bound thereto may be liberated. Exemplary cleavable groups
  may include, but are not limited to, disulfide groups, ester groups, ether groups, and
  any derivatives thereof (e.g., alkyl and aryl esters). In certain embodiments, the
  cleavable group is not an ester group or an ether group.
  [0054]           Enzyme-cleavable groups have been employed for many drug delivery
  systems and a large portion of such systems have been in the context of a prodrug.
  (Sherwood, R.F. Adv. DrugDel. Rev. 1996, 22, 269-288). In certain embodiments,
  such enzymes may also be employed to cleave one or more functional groups of the
  compositions disclosed herein. Exemplary enzymes utilized within the context of
  prodrugs and that may also be employed to cleave one or more functional groups may
  include, but not be limited to, alkaline phosphatase, carboxypeptidase G2, cytosine
                                               25

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  deaminase, nitroreductase, P-glucuronidase, a-galactosidase, thioredoxin and gamma
  interferon inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (GILT). Further, many enzyme
  cleavable groups are related to the specific recognition of a peptide sequence.
  Exemplary enzyme-cleavable sequences contemplated by the present invention (and
  their corresponding enzyme) include, but are not limited to, Val-Cit dipeptide
  (Cathepsin B) (Toki, et al. J. Org. Chem. 2002, 67: 1866-1872; Yoneda, et al. Bioorg.
  Med. Chem. Lett. 2008, 18: 1632-1636), GFLG (Cathepsin B) (Nori, et al. Bioconj.
  Chem. 2003, 14: 44-50; Veronese, et al. Bioconj. Chem, 2005, 16: 775-784), GGGF
  (Cathepsin B) (DeNardo, et al. Clin. Canc. Res. 2003, 9: 3665s-3972s), PVGLIG
  (MMP) (Chau, et al. J. Pharm. Sci. 2006, 95: 542-55 1), AAN (legumain) (Stem et al.
  Bioconj. Chem. 2009, 20: 500-5 10).
  [0055]          In certain embodiments, the cleavable group may be an acid-labile
  functional groups. For example, acid-labile functional groups employed for enhanced
  drug release from a host of drug delivery systems such as prodrug conjugates,
  polymer conjugates, nanoparticles and lipid-based systems may be employed in the
  compositions and methods disclosed herein. Contemplated acid-labile functional
  groups or linkages may include, for example, a hydrazone moiety, an imine linkage,
  acetal moieties, ketal moieties, cis-aconityl systems, ortho esters, thiopropionate,
  maleic anhydrides, enamines and vinyl ethers.
  [0056]          In certain embodiments, the cleavable group may be employed to
  liberate one or more agents from the compositions disclosed herein. For example,
  contemplated is the employment of one or more agents or cargo (e.g., small
  molecules, proteins or nucleic acids) upon cleavage of, for example a disulfide
  functional group.
  [0057]          The cleavable groups described herein are generally bound (e.g., bound
  by one or more of hydrogen-bonds, van der Waals' forces, ionic interactions and
  covalent bonds) to one or more functional moieties or groups (e.g., at least one head
  group and at least one tail-group). In certain embodiments, at least one of the
  functional moieties or groups is hydrophilic (e.g., a hydrophilic head-group
  comprising one or more of imidazole, guanidinium, amino, imine, enamine,
  optionally-substituted alkyl amino and pyridyl). In certain embodiments where there
  lipid compositions of the present invention are incorporated in a liposomal
  composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle), cleavage of the linker group causes the
                                             26

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  hydrophilic head-group to dissociate from the lipid while the lipophilic tail group
  remains as a fixed component of the liposomal composition. For example, as
  illustrated in FIG. 1 upon contacting a cleavable disulfide (S-S) cationic lipid with a
  reducing agent, the disulfide bond (S-S) is cleaved and the cationic amino head-group
  of the cleavable lipid dissociates from the lipid nanoparticle, while the lipophilic tail
  group remains as a component of the liposomal vehicle. In the depicted embodiment,
  the surface of the resultant lipid nanoparticle is rendered neutralized as a result of the
  cleavage of the disulfide linker group.
  [0058]           The present inventions contemplate cleavage of the linker group by
  contacting such linker group with one or more suitable agents. As used herein, the
  term "agent" is meant to refer to one or more reagents, compounds or conditions with
  which (or to which) the lipids of the present invention may be contacted and/or
  interact to catalyze or otherwise induce cleavage of one or more linker groups. In
  certain embodiments, the agent is a reducing agent that is capable of donating
  electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction. Contemplated agents include reducing
  agents, for example, aqueous solutions comprising one or more of tris (2
  carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP), p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME), dithiothreitol (DTT),
  glutathione and dithioerythritol. Alternatively, in other embodiments the agent may
  be an oxidizing agent that is capable of accepting electrons in an oxidation-reduction
  reaction. In other embodiments, the agent may comprise one or more enzymes that
  are capable of enzymatically cleaving a linker group. Preferably, the selection of a
  suitable agent (e.g., a reducing agent) is based on the nature of the cleavable linker
  group that comprises the lipid and is within the purview of one skilled in the art. For
  example, a lipid comprising a linker group that is susceptible to enzymatic digestion
  may be contacted with or otherwise exposed to an appropriate enzyme to facilitate
  cleavage of the linker group and the liberation of the polar head-group from the lipid.
  Alternatively, in other embodiments the cleavable linker group may comprise an ester
  functional group, and the corresponding agent may comprise a compound or agent
  capable of readily hydrolyzing such ester functional group. Still in other
  embodiments, the cleavable linker group may comprise an acid-labile group that may
  be cleaved upon exposure to acidic conditions.
  [0059]           In certain embodiments, a linker group may be cleavable in vitro upon
  contacting the lipid with an appropriate agent (e.g., an aqueous solution comprising
                                              27

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  the reducing agent p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME)). For example, a lipid nanoparticle
  comprising one or more of the cleavable lipids of the present invention may be
  contacted with a reducing agent promptly after loading with one or more therapeutic
  agents (e.g., polynucleotides encoding a functional protein or enzyme) and thereby
  neutralize the lipid nanoparticle. Alternatively, a lipid nanoparticle comprising one or
  more cleavable lipids may be contacted with a reducing agent immediately prior to
  administration to a subject. Lipid nanoparticles that carry a high surface charge (e.g.,
  Zave more than about +30mV or less than about -30mV) are often considered more
  stable because the particle surface charges serve to repel similarly charged particles,
  thereby reducing the likelihood that similarly charged particles will aggregate
  together. By delaying the neutralization of the lipid nanoparticle, such that surface
  neutralization occurs immediately prior to administration of the lipid nanoparticle to a
  subject (e.g., within less than six weeks, four weeks, three weeks, two weeks, one
  week, or less than seventy-two hours, forty-eight hours, twenty-four hours, eighteen
  hours, twelve hours, nine hours, six hours, three hours, two hours, one hour, thirty
  minutes, fifteen minutes, ten minutes, five minutes, one minute or less), the stability
  of lipid nanoparticles may be preserved or otherwise or extended. Similarly, in
  certain embodiments, cleavage of the linker groups may be induced in vivo, for
  example upon exposure to circulating enzymes or conditions present in the systemic
  circulation, and thereby cause the surface charge of the lipid composition to be
  modified or neutralized. For example, a lipid nanoparticle prepared using one or
  more of the lipids disclosed herein (e.g., the cationic lipid HGT4002) may be prepared
  and loaded with an effective amount of a therapeutic agent and administered to a
  subject with a positive surface charge, and which becomes neutralized in vivo
  following administration to the subject (e.g., by enzymatic cleavage of susceptible
  linker groups). It should be noted that in certain embodiments, the degree to which
  the properties (e.g., surface charge) of a liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid
  nanoparticle) are modified is a function of the selected reducing agents to which the
  liposomal composition is exposed and/or the duration of such exposure.
  [0060]           While in some embodiments described herein, the terms "modified"
  and "modulated", as they relate to the surface charge of a liposomal composition,
  refer to the neutralization of a liposomal composition (e.g., modulating the   Zave such
  that it is between about -2.5mV and +2.5mV), the present inventions need not be
                                              28

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  limited to neutralization. Rather, the terms "modified" and "modulated" when used
  with respect to the surface charge of a liposomal composition are intended to refer
  broadly to any changes in the physical or chemical properties of such liposomal
  composition (e.g., modulating a net positive surface charge of a liposomal
  composition such that the net surface charge is negative). The selected agent and the
  duration of exposure of the liposomal composition to such agent represent two
  important variables that can be manipulated by one of skill in the art such that the
  surface charge of the liposomal composition may be modified or modulated to a
  desired degree (e.g., Zave less than about -5mV). Accordingly, in certain
  embodiments, the lipid nanoparticle is contacted with a selected reducing agent for a
  selected duration sufficient to achieve the desired result (e.g., reduction in the surface
  charge by at least about 1-99%). In certain embodiments, a liposomal composition
  may be contacted with a selected agent for between about five minutes to about
  seventy-two hours or more (e.g., at least about fifteen minutes, thirty minutes, forty
  five minutes, one hour, three hours, six hours, eight hours, twelve hours, sixteen
  hours, eighteen hours, twenty four hours, forty-eight hours, seventy-two hours, or
  longer) to achieve one or more desired outcomes or results.
  [00611          In certain embodiments, there exists a direct relationship between the
  duration of exposure of the liposomal composition to the selected agent and the
  resulting change in the surface charge of the liposomal composition. For example, by
  extending the duration of exposure of a lipid nanoparticle having a net positive
  surface charge to one or more agents (e.g., a reducing agent) the resulting surface
  charge of such lipid nanoparticle may be neutralized or reduced to a greater degree
  (e.g., reducing the average zeta potential to less than about -0.5mV, -1.OmV,
  2.5mV, -5.OmV, -7.OmV, -10.OmV, -12.5mV, -15.OmV, -17.5mV, -2OmV, -25mV,
  -30mV, -40mV, -50mV, or less). In some embodiments, the degree to which the net
  surface charge of a liposomal composition may be modulated by the methods
  disclosed herein may also be a function of the properties of the lipid components that
  comprise such liposomal composition (e.g., one or more helper lipids or PEG
  derivatized lipids). Accordingly, the present invention provides means of controlling
  the surface charge of liposomal compositions (and in particular liposomal
  compositions encapsulating one or more therapeutic agents) based on, for example,
  one or more desired physical properties or targeted organs or tissues. The foregoing
                                              29

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  is particularly useful for not only facilitating the targeting of liposomal compositions
  to specific cells, tissues or organs, but in certain embodiments may serve to mitigate
  toxicities associated with some liposomal compositions, and in particular cationic
  liposomal compositions. For example, in some embodiments reducing the surface
  charge of the liposomal compositions disclosed herein reduces the toxicities
  associated with such liposomal compositions by minimizing immunogenicity or by
  minimizing events associated with complement activation.
  [0062]           Upon contacting the lipid with one or more agents (e.g., an aqueous
  solution comprising at least one agent), the linker group is cleaved from the lipid and
  a hydrophilic head-group liberated, leaving the lipophilic (non-polar) tail-group as a
  component of the liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle). In embodiments
  where the cleavable lipid comprises a disulfide (S-S) linker group, upon exposure to a
  reducing agent (e.g., an aqueous solution of tris (2-carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP)
  and/or  p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME)), the hydrophilic head-group represented by the
  following structure is liberated:
                                     R1             SH
                                                                                 (V),
  wherein R1 represents the hydrophilic head-group (e.g., imidazole, guanidinium,
  imine, enamine, amino, an optionally-substituted alkyl amino, and pyridyl).
  Similarly, following exposure of the lipid, and in particular a cleavable disulfide
  linker group that comprises the lipid, to one or more reducing agents, a thiol group, as
  represented by the following structure, remains as a fixed component of the liposomal
  composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticle):
                                   H-S             R
                                                                                 (VI),
                                                30

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  wherein R2 represents the tail-group and is selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally-substituted pyridyl (e.g., pyridine or nitropyridyl) or one of the following
  structures:
                                                                                 (II), and
                                                         R3
                                                0
                                                  R4       4                     (III),
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C2 0 acyl, remains as a component of
  the liposomal composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticle). As depicted in FIG. 2, following
  exposure of the liposomal composition to a reducing agent, the remaining thiol
  functional groups that coat the surface of the modified or neutralized composition
  may be further manipulated. In the embodiment depicted in FIG. 2, the thiol groups
  represent substrates that may be reacted with other organic compounds, polymers,
  peptides or ligands to further modify the surface of the liposomal composition.
  [0063]          Accordingly, also disclosed herein are compositions and methods of
  further modifying the lipids and the liposomal compositions of the present invention
  to introduce additional functional groups or chemistries. Therefore, in certain
  embodiments, the term "modified" as used to characterize a lipid that has been
  neutralized may also refer to the further modification or customization of such neutral
  lipid. In such embodiments, the term "modified" may be used to characterize a
  modified lipid relative to the neutral lipid from which that modified lipid was
  prepared. For example, in certain embodiments, the foregoing contemplates the
  modification of the lipids disclosed herein such that a first polar head-group is
                                              31

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  removed from the lipid (e.g., upon cleavage of a linker group to thereby produce a
  neutralized lipid) and subsequently replaced with a second functional group of interest
  to thereby yield a modified lipid. The modification of the lipids to introduce
  additional functional groups and/or to impart additional functionalities may be used as
  a means of further targeting the lipid nanoparticles to tissues of interest. Therefore,
  also provided herein are additional means of further modifying the physical and
  chemical properties of one or more lipids that have been previously modified or
  neutralized in accordance with the present inventions. For example, in certain
  embodiments, the sulfhydryl group that comprises the remaining thiol group of a lipid
  that has been reductively neutralized in accordance with the teachings hereof, may be
  further reacted with one or more additional functional groups or compounds to further
  modify the physical and/or chemical properties of the lipid and/or the liposomal
  composition of which such lipid is a component. As depicted in FIG. 2, after having
  neutralized or modified the surface charge of the liposomal composition, the
  remaining sulfhydryl groups coating the external surface of the modified or
  neutralized lipid may be further reacted to introduce additional chemistries or
  functional groups. For example, the remaining thiol group of the modified or neutral
  lipid may be contacted or otherwise reacted with a secondary agent, structure or
  compound represented by the following structure:
                                      R&        ;SH
                                                                                   (VII),
  wherein R5 represents a second functional group or chemistry, and wherein n is zero
  or a positive integer. In certain embodiments, the second functional group is a
  targeting ligand that may be used to mediate the distribution of the lipid nanoparticle
  to target cells, tissues or organs or to encourage localization of such lipid nanoparticle
  at certain target cells or target tissues.
  [0064]            Recognition of the targeting ligand by the target tissues actively
  facilitates tissue distribution to, and cellular uptake of the lipid nanoparticles and/or
  their contents by the target cells and tissues. For example, in certain embodiments,
  the liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) may undergo secondary
                                                32

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  modification such that a targeting ligand comprising an apolipoprotein-E targeting
  ligand is bound to the surface of such composition to facilitate or encourage
  recognition and binding of such composition to endogenous low density lipoprotein
  receptors expressed, for example by hepatocytes. As provided herein, the
  composition can comprise a targeting ligand capable of enhancing affinity of the
  compositions to one or more target cells. Suitable targeting ligands are selected such
  that the unique characteristics of a target cell are exploited, thus allowing the
  liposomal composition to discriminate between target and non-target cells. For
  example, compositions of the present invention may bear surface markers (e.g.,
  apolipoprotein-B or apolipoprotein-E) that selectively enhance recognition of, or
  affinity to hepatocytes (e.g., by receptor-mediated recognition of and binding to such
  surface markers). Additionally, the use of galactose as a targeting ligand would be
  expected to direct the compositions of the present invention to parenchymal
  hepatocytes, or alternatively the use of mannose containing sugar residues as a
  targeting ligand would be expected to direct the compositions of the present invention
  to liver endothelial cells (e.g., mannose containing sugar residues that may bind
  preferentially to the asialoglycoprotein receptor present in hepatocytes). (See Hillery
  AM, et al. "Drug Delivery and Targeting: For Pharmacists and Pharmaceutical
  Scientists" (2002) Taylor & Francis, Inc.) The presentation of such targeting ligands
  that have been conjugated to the surface of the liposomal compositions of the present
  invention therefore facilitate the recognition and uptake of such liposomal
  compositions by one or more target cells and tissues. Examples of suitable targeting
  ligands include one or more peptides, proteins, aptamers, vitamins and
  oligonucleotides.
  [0065]          In certain embodiments, the reduced lipid is contacted with the
  secondary agent, compound or functional group under conditions that facilitate the
  formation of a disulfide bond (e.g., oxidative conditions) and the neutral lipid thereby
  further modified. The further modified lipid may be represented by the following
  structure:
                                    RS_           s/R2
                                               3(VIII);
                                              33

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  wherein R5 represents the newly introduced second functional group or chemistry, R2
  represents a lipophilic tail-group and n is zero or a positive integer. The newly
  introduced second functional group (R5 ) may be selected from the group consisting of
  a polymer (e.g., polyethylene glycol), a peptide, a targeting ligand (e.g.,
  apolipoprotein-B, apolipoprotein-E, glucose, galactose and/or mannose), an alkyl
  (e.g., an optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C1 -C20 alkyl) and a
  capping structure. In certain embodiments, the lipophilic tail-group (R2) is selected
  from the group consisting of an optionally-substituted pyridyl (e.g., pyridine or
  nitropyridyl) or one of the following structures:
                                                                                 (II), and
                                                       OR3
                                                 0
                                                   R4                            (m),
  wherein R3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of an
  optionally substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C20 alkyl and an optionally
  substituted, variably saturated or unsaturated C6 -C2 0 acyl. The foregoing therefore
  provides methods of using, for example, cleavable disulfide cationic lipids, to create a
  neutral thiol coated nanoparticle. Such thiol functional groups may then act as a
  substrate which could be used as is, or further modified with other moieties (polymers
  (PEG), targeting agents or capping structures).
  [0066]          For example, in certain embodiments, the modified lipid may be
  represented by one of the following structures:
                                              34

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
                           R5               S
                                                       N                        (IX), or
                                                                     NO2
                           R5
                                      n                 N
                                                               /
                                                                                (X),
  wherein R5 is selected from the group consisting of a polymer (e.g., polyethylene
  glycol), a peptide, a targeting ligand (e.g., apolipoprotein-B, apolipoprotein-E,
  glucose, galactose and/or mannose), an alkyl (e.g., an optionally substituted, variably
  saturated or unsaturated C1 -C 2 0 alkyl) and a capping structure and wherein n is zero or
  any positive integer. In other embodiments, the thiol group of a modified or neutral
  lipid may be contacted or otherwise reacted under suitable conditions (e.g., oxidative
  conditions) with a secondary agent, structure or compound represented by one or
  more of the structures (IX) and/or (X) depicted above.
  [0067]           The methods disclosed herein provide means of preparing neutral or
  slightly charged lipids that demonstrate high encapsulation efficiency. As used
  herein, the phrase "encapsulation efficiency" refers to the fraction of therapeutic agent
  that is effectively encapsulated within a liposomal-based vehicle relative to the initial
  fraction of therapeutic agent present in the lipid phase. In certain embodiments, the
  high encapsulations efficiencies are achieved upon loading the liposomal composition
  (e.g., lipid nanoparticles demonstrating a positive surface charge) prior to contacting
  such composition with an agent (e.g., a reducing agent). By loading the liposomal
  vehicle in its charged state, the encapsulation of oppositely charged therapeutic agents
  is facilitated. Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the lipid compounds and
  liposomal vehicles prepared therefrom are loaded with one or more therapeutic agents
  prior to being contacted with an agent (e.g., a reducing agent). In certain
  embodiments, the lipid compositions and the lipid nanoparticles prepared therefrom
  exhibit an encapsulation efficiency of at least 50% (e.g., 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%,
  80%, 85%, 87.5%, 90%, 92.5%, 95%, 97.5%, 98%, 99% or more.)
  [0068]           The liposomal compositions prepared in accordance with the methods
  disclosed herein may be characterized with respect to the average concentration of
                                               35

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  one or more therapeutic agents encapsulated in such compositions. For example, in
  certain embodiments, the average concentration of therapeutic agent encapsulated in a
  liposomal composition prepared in accordance with the present inventions is between
  about 0.025pg/mL to about 250pg/mL (e.g., at least about 0.05pg/mL, 0.1 pg/mL,
  0.25pg/mL, 0.5pg/mL, 1pg/mL, 2.5pg/mL, 5pg/mL, 10pg/mL, 15pg/mL, 20pg/mL,
  25pg/mL, 50pg/mL, 75pg/mL, 10pg/mL, 150pg/mL, 200pg/mL, or more).
  [0069]          In certain embodiments the lipids and the liposomal compositions
  prepared using such lipids are stable. As used herein to characterize a liposomal
  composition, the term "stable" refers to the physical stability of such compositions
  and generally means that the composition is suitable for administration to a subject at
  the conclusion of a predetermined period of time and/or storage conditions (e.g.,
  following storage at standard room temperature and humidity for at least two years).
  In certain embodiments the substantial absence of a precipitate, cloudiness and/or
  other particulate matter (e.g., following storage at 45'C for at least two months) in the
  composition may be indicative of its stability. In other embodiments, the substantial
  absence of particle aggregation or coalescence may be indicative of the stability of the
  liposomal compositions disclosed herein.
  [0070]          In certain embodiments, the lipid compounds, and in particular the
  imidazole-based compounds described herein (e.g., HGT4001 and HGT4004), are
  also characterized by their reduced toxicity, in particular relative to traditional
  cationic lipids. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical and liposomal
  compositions described herein comprise one or more imidazole-based cationic lipid
  compounds such that the relative concentration of other more toxic cationic lipids in
  such pharmaceutical or liposomal composition may be reduced or otherwise
  eliminated. The imidazole-based compounds or lipids (e.g., HGT4001 and/or
  HGT4004) may be used as the sole cationic lipid in one or more of the pharmaceutical
  and liposomal compositions described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles), or
  alternatively may be combined with traditional cationic lipids (e.g., LIPOFECTIN or
  LIPOFECTAMINE), non-cationic lipids, PEG-modified lipids and/or helper lipids.
  In certain embodiments, the liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) may
  comprise a molar ratio of about 1% to about 90%, about 2% to about 70%, about 5%
  to about 50%, about 10% to about 40% of the total lipid present in such
  pharmaceutical or liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle), or preferably
                                              36

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  about 20% to about 70% of the total lipid present in such pharmaceutical or liposomal
  composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle).
  [0071]          The cleavable lipids described herein, and in particular, the disulfide
  cleavable lipid may consist of one or more of the lipid compounds disclosed in co
  owned U.S. Application No. 61/494,745 (Attorney Docket No.: SHIR-022-001) the
  contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. For example,
  in certain embodiments, the inventions relate to the compound 5-(((10,13-dimethyl
  17-(6-methylheptan-2-yl)-2,3,4,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17-tetradecahydro-1H
  cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl)disulfanyl)methyl)- 1H-imidazole, having the structure
  of formula XI (referred to herein as "HGT400 1").
                            H
                            N       S-S
                            N
           (XI)
  [0072]          In certain embodiments, the inventions relate to the compound 1-(2
  (((3S,1 OR,13R)-10,13-dimethyl-17-((R)-6-methylheptan-2-yl)
  2,3,4,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17-tetradecahydro- 1H-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3
  yl)disulfanyl)ethyl)guanidine, having the structure of formula XII (referred to herein
  as "HGT4002").
                                 H
                           HN    N        SS         N
                               NH2
      (XII)
  [0073]          In yet other embodiments, the inventions relate to the compound 2
                                             37

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  ((2,3 -Bis((9Z, 12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien- 1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)-N,N
  dimethylethanamine, having the structure of formula XIII (referred to herein as
  "HGT4003").
           (XIII)
  [0074]           In other embodiments, the inventions relate to the compound 5-(((2,3
  bis((9Z,12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien-1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)methyl)-1H-imidazole
  having the structure of formula XIV (referred to herein as "HGT4004").
             H
             N
           <\ r
            N                                                                        (XIV)
  [0075]           In still other embodiments, the inventions relate to the compound 1
  (((2,3-bis((9Z,12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dien-1-yloxy)propyl)disulfanyl)methyl)guanidine
  having the structure of formula XV (referred to herein as "HGT4005").
                NH2
           HN N N
                   H
  (XV)
  [0076]           The lipid compounds described herein may be used to construct
  liposomal compositions that facilitate or enhance the delivery and release of
  encapsulated materials (e.g., one or more therapeutic polynucleotides) to one or more
  target cells (e.g., by permeating or fusing with the lipid membranes of such target
  cells). In certain embodiments the compounds described herein are characterized as
  having one or more properties that afford such compounds advantages relative to
  other similarly classified lipids. For example, in certain embodiments, the lipids
                                              38

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  disclosed herein allow for the control and tailoring of the physical properties of
  liposomal compositions of which they are a component. In particular, the surface
  charge of liposomal compositions comprising the lipid compounds disclosed herein
  may be readily customized based on the teachings provided herein. For example, the
  surface charge of the liposomal composition may be rendered neutral upon exposure
  to an appropriate agent (e.g., a reducing agent such as TCEP). Such modification may
  be employed as a means of modulating the pharmacokinetic properties of a liposomal
  composition (e.g., by enhancing circulatory half-life or by facilitating the distribution
  of such composition to one or more target cells, organs or tissues). In certain
  embodiments the lipid compounds and the neutralized or modified liposomal
  compositions disclosed herein exhibit an enhanced (e.g., increased) ability to transfect
  one or more target cells. As used herein, the terms "transfect" or "transfection" refer
  to the intracellular introduction of one or more encapsulated materials (e.g., nucleic
  acids and/or polynucleotides) into a cell, or preferably into a target cell.
  [0077]           The methods, lipids and liposomal compositions of the present
  invention may be used to facilitate the delivery of a wide range of materials and
  therapeutic agents to target cells, organs and tissues. Accordingly, the lipids and
  liposomal compositions described herein may be used to encapsulate any number of
  materials suitable for intracellular delivery. In certain embodiments, such
  encapsulated materials are capable of conferring a therapeutic or diagnostic benefit
  upon the cells into which such materials are delivered, and may include any drugs,
  biologics and/or diagnostics. The materials can be organic or inorganic. Organic
  molecules can be peptides, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, sterols, nucleic acids
  (including peptide nucleic acids), or any combination thereof. In certain
  embodiments, the pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions described herein can
  comprise or otherwise encapsulate more than one type of material, for example, two
  or more different polynucleotide sequences encoding a protein, an enzyme and/or a
  steroid. In certain embodiments, the encapsulated materials are one or more
  polynucleotides and nucleic acids.
  [0078]           As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide" and "nucleic acid" are used
  interchangeably to refer to genetic material (e.g., DNA or RNA), and when such
  terms are used with respect to the lipid compounds and liposomal compositions
  described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) generally refer to the genetic material
                                              39

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  encapsulated by such compounds and compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles). In
  some embodiments, the polynucleotide is RNA. Suitable RNA includes mRNA,
  siRNA, miRNA, snRNA and snoRNA. Contemplated polynucleotides also include
  large intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA), which generally does not encode
  proteins, but rather function, for example, in immune signaling, stem cell biology and
  the development of disease. (See, e.g., Guttman, et al., 458: 223-227 (2009); and Ng,
  et al., Nature Genetics 42: 1035-1036 (2010), the contents of which are incorporated
  herein by reference). In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides encapsulated by
  the lipid compounds or liposomal compositions of the invention include RNA or
  stabilized RNA encoding a protein or enzyme (e.g., mRNA encoding alpha
  galactosidase A or a low density lipoprotein receptors). The present invention
  contemplates the use of such polynucleotides (and in particular RNA or stabilized
  RNA) as a therapeutic that is capable of being expressed by target cells to thereby
  facilitate the production (and in certain instances the excretion) of a functional
  enzyme or protein by such target cells as disclosed for example, in International
  Application No. PCT/US2010/058457 and in United States Provisional Application
  No. 61/494,881 (Attorney Docket No. SHIR-025-001), filed June 8, 2011, the
  teachings of which are both incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. For
  example, in certain embodiments, upon the expression of one or more polynucleotides
  by target cells the production of a functional or biologically-active enzyme or protein
  in which a subject is deficient (e.g., a urea cycle enzyme or an enzyme associated with
  a lysosomal storage disorder) may be observed.
  [0079]           Also contemplated by the present inventions are the modifications of
  polynucleotides or nucleic acids. As used herein to describe one or more
  polynucleotides or nucleic acids described herein (e.g., mRNA), the terms
  "modification" and "modified", as such terms relate to the polynucleotides or nucleic
  acids disclosed herein, refer to one or more changes, alterations or substitutions which
  improve or enhance the stability and/or expression (e.g., translation) of such
  polynucleotides or nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA), including for example, the inclusion
  of sequences which function in the initiation of protein translation (e.g., the Kozac
  consensus sequence). (Kozak, M., Nucleic Acids Res 15 (20): 8125-48 (1987)). In
  some embodiments, the nucleic acids of the present invention have undergone a
  chemical or biological modification to render them more stable. Exemplary
                                              40

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  modifications to a nucleic acid include the depletion of a base (e.g., by deletion or by
  the substitution of one nucleotide for another) or modification of a base, for example,
  the chemical modification of a base. The phrase "chemical modifications" as used
  herein to describe the nucleic acids or polynucleotides of the present invention, refers
  to modifications which introduce chemistries which differ from those seen in
  naturally occurring nucleic acids, for example, covalent modifications such as the
  introduction of modified nucleotides, (e.g., nucleotide analogs, or the inclusion of
  pendant groups which are not naturally found in such nucleic acid molecules). For
  example, in certain embodiments the polynucleotides disclosed herein (e.g., an
  mRNA polynucleotide) may comprises at least one modified or chemically modified
  nucleotide independently selected from the group consisting of 5-methylcytosine,
  isocytosine, pseudoisocytosine, 5-bromouracil, 5-propynyluracil, 6-aminopurine, 2
  aminopurine, inosine, pseudouridine, 2-thiouridine, diaminopurine and 2-chloro-6
  aminopurine cytosine.
  [0080]          In addition, suitable polynucleotide modifications include alterations in
  one or more nucleotides of a codon such that the codon encodes the same amino acid
  but is more stable than the codon found in the wild-type version of the nucleic acid.
  For example, an inverse relationship between the stability of RNA and a higher
  number cytidines (C's) and/or uridines (U's) residues has been demonstrated, and
  RNA devoid of C and U residues have been found to be stable to most RNases.
  (Heidenreich, et al. J Biol Chem 269, 2131-8 (1994)).      In some embodiments, the
  number of C and/or U residues in an mRNA sequence is reduced. In a another
  embodiment, the number of C and/or U residues is reduced by substitution of one
  codon encoding a particular amino acid for another codon encoding the same or a
  related amino acid. Contemplated modifications to the mRNA nucleic acids of the
  present invention also include the incorporation of pseudouridines. The incorporation
  of pseudouridines into the mRNA nucleic acids of the present invention may enhance
  stability and translational capacity, as well as diminishing immunogenicity in vivo.
  (See, e.g., Karik6, K., et al., Molecular Therapy 16 (11): 1833-1840 (2008)).
  Substitutions and modifications to the nucleic acids of the present invention may be
  performed by methods readily known to one or ordinary skill in the art.
  [0081]          The constraints on reducing the number of C and U residues in a
  sequence will likely be greater within the coding region of an mRNA, compared to an
                                             41

WO 2013/149141                                                                 PCT/US2013/034604
  untranslated region, (i.e., it will likely not be possible to eliminate all of the C and U
  residues present in the message while still retaining the ability of the message to
  encode the desired amino acid sequence). The degeneracy of the genetic code,
  however presents an opportunity to allow the number of C and/or U residues that are
  present in the sequence to be reduced, while maintaining the same coding capacity
  (i.e., depending on which amino acid is encoded by a codon, several different
  possibilities for modification of RNA sequences may be possible). For example, the
  codons for Gly can be altered to GGA or GGG instead of GGU or GGC.
  [0082]           The term modification also includes, for example, the incorporation of
  non-nucleotide linkages or modified nucleotides into the nucleic acid sequences of the
  present invention (e.g., modifications to one or both the 3' and 5' ends of an mRNA
  molecule encoding a functional protein or enzyme). Such modifications include the
  addition of bases to a nucleic acid sequence (e.g., the inclusion of a poly A tail or a
  longer poly A tail), the alteration of the 3' UTR or the 5' UTR, complexing the nucleic
  acid with an agent (e.g., a protein or a complementary nucleic acid molecule), and
  inclusion of elements which change the structure of a nucleic acid molecule (e.g.,
  which form secondary structures).
  [0083]           The poly A tail is thought to stabilize natural messengers and synthetic
  sense RNA. Therefore, in one embodiment a long poly A tail can be added to an
  mRNA molecule thus rendering the RNA more stable. Poly A tails can be added
  using a variety of art-recognized techniques. For example, long poly A tails can be
  added to synthetic or in vitro transcribed RNA using poly A polymerase (Yokoe, et al.
  Nature Biotechnology. 1996; 14: 1252-1256). A transcription vector can also encode
  long poly A tails. In addition, poly A tails can be added by transcription directly from
  PCR products. Poly A may also be ligated to the 3' end of a sense RNA with RNA
  ligase (see, e.g., Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., ed. by Sambrook,
  Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press: 1991 edition)). In one
  embodiment, the length of the poly A tail is at least about 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 75, 80,
  90, 100, 200, 300, 400, or at least about 500 nucleotides. In one embodiment, the
  length of the poly A tail is adjusted to control the stability of a modified sense mRNA
  molecule of the invention and, thus, the transcription of protein. For example, since
  the length of the poly A tail can influence the half-life of a sense mRNA molecule, the
  length of the poly A tail can be adjusted to modify the level of resistance of the
                                                42

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  mRNA to nucleases and thereby control the time course of protein expression in a
  cell. In one embodiment, the stabilized nucleic acid molecules are sufficiently
  resistant to in vivo degradation (e.g., by nucleases), such that they may be delivered to
  the target cell without a transfer vehicle.
  [0084]           In one embodiment, a nucleic acid encoding a protein can be modified
  by the incorporation of 3' and/or 5' untranslated (UTR) sequences which are not
  naturally found in the wild-type nucleic acid. In one embodiment, 3' and/or 5'
  flanking sequence which naturally flanks an mRNA and encodes a second, unrelated
  protein can be incorporated into the nucleotide sequence of an mRNA molecule
  encoding a therapeutic or functional protein in order to modify it. For example, 3' or
  5' sequences from mRNA molecules which are stable (e.g., globin, actin, GAPDH,
  tubulin, histone, or citric acid cycle enzymes) can be incorporated into the 3' and/or 5'
  region of a sense mRNA nucleic acid molecule to increase the stability of the sense
  mRNA molecule.
  [0085]           Also contemplated by the present invention are other modifications to
  the nucleic acid sequences made to one or both of the 3' and 5' ends of the nucleic
  acid. For example, the present invention contemplates modifications to one or both of
  the 3' and the 5' ends of the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) to include at least a partial
  sequence of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IEl) gene, or a fragment thereof to improve
  the nuclease resistance and/or improve the half-life of the nucleic acid. In addition to
  increasing the stability of the mRNA nucleic acid sequence, it has been surprisingly
  discovered the inclusion of a partial sequence of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IEl) gene
  at the 5' end enhances the translation of the mRNA and the expression of the
  functional protein or enzyme. Also contemplated is the inclusion of a sequence
  encoding human growth hormone (hGH), or a fragment thereof to one or both of the
  3' and 5' ends of the nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA) to further stabilize the nucleic acid.
  Generally, preferred modifications improve the stability and/or pharmacokinetic
  properties (e.g., half-life) of the nucleic acid relative to their unmodified counterparts,
  and include, for example modifications made to improve such nucleic acid's
  resistance to in vivo nuclease digestion.
  [0086]           In certain embodiments, the contemplated polynucleotide modification
  include changes to the nucleotides to incorporate a sugar moiety having a 2'
  substituent group or incorporating a bridged or locked nucleic acid (LNA) structure
                                               43

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  that can provide increased nuclease resistance. In some embodiments, a preferred
  modification comprises the inclusion of one or more LNA, such as oxy-LNA (such as
  beta-D-oxy-LNA, and alpha-L-oxy-LNA), and/or amino-LNA (such as beta-D
  amino-LNA and alpha-L-amino-LNA) and/or thio-LNA (such as beta-D-thio-LNA
  and alpha-L-thio-LNA) and/or ENA (such as beta-D-ENA and alpha-L-ENA). Most
  preferred is beta-D-oxy-LNA.
  [0087]          In some embodiments the polynucleotide modifications are
  independently selected from, for example: 2'-O-alkyl-RNA units, 2'-amino-DNA
  units, 2'-fluoro-DNA units, LNA units, arabino nucleic acid (ANA) units, 2'-fluoro
  ANA units, HNA units, INA (intercalating nucleic acid units as discussed by
  Christensen, et al., Nucl. Acids. Res. (2002) 30: 4918-4925) and 2'MOE units. In
  some embodiments there is only one of the above types of modifications present in
  the oligonucleotide of the invention. In some embodiments the polynucleotide
  comprises only LNA nucleotides and naturally occurring nucleotides (such as RNA),
  optionally with one or more modified internucleotide linkages such as
  phosphorothioate.
  [0088]          The nucleotide monomers of the polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA)
  described herein are coupled together via linkage groups. Suitably, each nucleotide
  monomer is linked to the 3' adjacent monomer via a linkage group. The person
  having ordinary skill in the art will understand that, in the context of the present
  invention, the 5' monomer at the end of an oligonucleotide does not comprise a 5'
  linkage group, although it may or may not comprise a 5' terminal group.
  [0089]          As used herein, the phrases "linkage group" and "internucleotide
  linkage" are intended to mean a group capable of covalently coupling together two
  nucleotides. Specific and preferred examples include phosphate groups and
  phosphorothioate groups. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides disclosed
  herein have phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages at each internucleotide linkage.
  The nucleotide monomers of the polynucleotide of the invention or contiguous
  nucleotides sequence thereof are coupled together via linkage groups. Suitably each
  nucleotide is linked to the 3' adjacent nucleotide via a linkage group. Suitable
  internucleotide linkages include those listed within International Application WO
  2007/031091, for example the internucleotide linkages listed on the first paragraph of
  page 34 of W02007/031091.
                                             44

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  [0090]          In certain embodiments, the lipid compounds and liposomal
  compositions described herein are formulated as a blended formulation or
  composition. For example, in one embodiment, a liposomal composition comprises a
  blended formulation comprising a 3:1 ratio of a first lipid nanoparticle comprising
  HGT4003 and a second lipid nanoparticle comprising HGT4001. Accordingly, also
  provided herein are blended liposomal compositions and related methods for
  modulating the expression of a polynucleotide in one or more target cells and tissues,
  as disclosed for example, in United States Provisional Application No. 61/494,714
  (Attorney Docket No. SHIR-021-001), filed June 8, 2011, the teachings of which are
  incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Also contemplated are methods for
  modulating (e.g., increasing or synergistically increasing) the production and/or
  secretion of, for example, one or more functional polypeptides, proteins or enzymes
  that are encoded by one or more polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA) encapsulated in such
  blended liposomal compositions by one or more target cells, as also disclosed in
  United States Provisional Application No. 61/494,714 (Attorney Docket No. SHIR
  021-001).
  [0091]          In certain embodiments, the lipids and liposomal compositions
  provided herein are capable of modulating the expression of aberrantly expressed
  nucleic acids and polynucleotides in one or more target cells and tissues.
  Accordingly, also provided herein are methods of treating disease in a subject by
  administering an effective amount of the lipid compounds and/or liposomal
  compositions described herein to the subject. In certain embodiments, such methods
  may enhance (e.g., increase) the expression of a polynucleotide and/or increase the
  production and secretion of a functional polypeptide product in one or more target
  cells and tissues (e.g., hepatocytes). In some embodiments, the targeted cells or
  tissues aberrantly express the polynucleotide encapsulated by one or more of the lipid
  compounds or liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) described herein.
  Also provided herein are methods of increasing the expression of one or more
  polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA) in one or more target cells, tissues and organs.
  Generally, such methods comprise contacting the target cells with one or more lipids
  and/or liposomal compositions that comprise or otherwise encapsulate one or more
  polynucleotides.
  [0092]          In certain embodiments, the lipids disclosed herein may be used as a
                                              45

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  liposome or as a component of a liposome. Specifically, in certain embodiments the
  compounds disclosed herein may be used as a lipid (e.g., cationic lipid) component of
  a liposomal composition (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle). Such liposomes may be used to
  encapsulate materials and facilitate the delivery of such materials to one or more
  target cells, tissues and organs. As used herein, the term "liposome" generally refers
  to a vesicle composed of lipids (e.g., amphiphilic lipids) arranged in one or more
  spherical bilayer or bilayers. In certain embodiments, the liposome is a lipid
  nanoparticle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle comprising one or more of the cationic lipid
  compounds disclosed herein). Such liposomes may be unilamellar or multilamellar
  vesicles which have a membrane formed from a lipophilic material and an aqueous
  interior that contains the encapsulated materials (e.g., polynucleotides) to be delivered
  to one or more target cells, tissues and organs. In certain embodiments, the
  pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions described herein comprise one or more
  lipid nanoparticles. Contemplated liposomes include lipid nanoparticles. Examples
  of suitable lipids (e.g., cationic lipids) that may be used to form the liposomes and
  lipid nanoparticles contemplated hereby include one or more of the compounds
  disclosed herein (e.g., HGT4001, HGT4002, HGT4003, HGT4004 and/or HGT4005).
  Such liposomes and lipid nanoparticles may also comprise additional cationic lipids
  such as C12-200, DLin-KC2-DMA, DOPE, DMG-PEG-2000, non-cationic lipids,
  cholesterol-based lipids, helper lipids, PEG-modified lipids, as well as the
  phosphatidyl compounds (e.g., phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine,
  phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and
  gangliosides) and combinations or mixtures of the forgoing.
  [0093]            Several cationic lipids have been described in the literature, many of
  which are commercially available. In certain embodiments, such cationic lipids are
  included in the pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions described herein in addition
  to one or more of the compounds or lipids disclosed herein (e.g., HGT4003). In some
  embodiments, the cationic lipid N-[1-(2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N
  trimethylammonium chloride or "DOTMA" is used. (Felgner et al. (Proc. Nat'l Acad.
  Sci. 84, 7413 (1987); U.S. Pat. No. 4,897,355). DOTMA can be formulated alone or
  can be combined with dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine or "DOPE" or other cationic
  or non-cationic lipids into a lipid nanoparticle. Other suitable cationic lipids include,
  for example C12-200, 5-carboxyspermylglycinedioctadecylamide or "DOGS," 2,3
                                                46

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  dioleyloxy-N-[2(spermine-carboxamido)ethyl]-N,N-dimethyl-1-propanaminium           or
  "DOSPA" (Behr et al. Proc. Nat.'l Acad. Sci. 86, 6982 (1989); U.S. Pat. No.
  5,171,678; U.S. Pat. No. 5,334,761), 1,2-Dioleoyl-3 -Dimethylammonium-Propane or
  "DODAP", 1,2-Dioleoyl-3-Trimethylammonium-Propane or "DOTAP".
  Contemplated cationic lipids also include 1,2-distearyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3
  aminopropane or "DSDMA", 1,2-dioleyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane or
  "DODMA", 1,2-dilinoleyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane or "DLinDMA", 1,2
  dilinolenyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane or "DLenDMA", N-dioleyl-N,N
  dimethylammonium chloride or "DODAC", N,N-distearyl-N,N-dimethylammonium
  bromide or "DDAB", N-(1,2-dimyristyloxyprop-3-yl)-N,N-dimethyl-N-hydroxyethyl
  ammonium bromide or "DMRIE", 3-dimethylamino-2-(cholest-5-en-3 -beta
  oxybutan-4-oxy)-1-(ci s,cis-9,12-octadecadienoxy)propane or "CLinDMA", 2-[5'
  (cholest-5-en-3-beta-oxy)-3'-oxapentoxy)-3-dimethy 1-1-(cis,cis-9', 1-2'
  octadecadienoxy)propane or "CpLinDMA", N,N-dimethyl-3,4
  dioleyloxybenzylamine or "DMOBA", 1,2-N,N'-dioleylcarbamyl-3
  dimethylaminopropane or "DOcarbDAP", 2,3-Dilinoleoyloxy-N,N
  dimethylpropylamine or "DLinDAP", 1,2-N,N'-Dilinoleylcarbamyl-3
  dimethylaminopropane or "DLincarbDAP", 1,2-Dilinoleoylcarbamyl-3
  dimethylaminopropane or "DLinCDAP", 2,2-dilinoleyl-4-dimethylaminomethyl
  [1,3]-dioxolane or "DLin-K-DMA", 2,2-dilinoleyl-4-dimethylaminoethyl-[1,3]
  dioxolane or "DLin-K-XTC2-DMA", or mixtures thereof. (Heyes, J., et al., J
  Controlled Release 107: 276-287 (2005); Morrissey, DV., et al., Nat. Biotechnol.
  23(8): 1003-1007 (2005); PCT Publication W02005/121348A1). The use of
  cholesterol-based cationic lipids to formulate the compositions (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) is also contemplated by the present invention. Such cholesterol-based
  cationic lipids can be used, either alone or in combination with other cationic or non
  cationic lipids. Suitable cholesterol-based cationic lipids include, for example, DC
  Chol (N,N-dimethyl-N-ethylcarboxamidocholesterol), 1,4-bis(3-N-oleylamino
  propyl)piperazine (Gao, et al. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 179, 280 (1991); Wolf
  et al. BioTechniques 23, 139 (1997); U.S. Pat. No. 5,744,335).
  [0094]          In addition, several reagents are commercially available to enhance
  transfection efficacy. Suitable examples include LIPOFECTIN (DOTMA:DOPE)
  (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.), LIPOFECTAMINE (DOSPA:DOPE) (Invitrogen),
                                             47

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  LIPOFECTAMINE2000. (Invitrogen), FUGENE, TRANSFECTAM (DOGS), and
  EFFECTENE. Also contemplated are cationic lipids such as the dialkylamino-based,
  imidazole-based, and guanidinium-based lipids. For example, also contemplated is
  the use of the cationic lipid (3S, 10R, 13R, 17R)-10, 13-dimethyl-17-((R)-6
  methylheptan-2-yl)-2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17-tetradecahydro-1H
  cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl 3-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)propanoate or "ICE", as
  disclosed in International Application No. PCT/US2010/058457, the teachings of
  which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
  [0095]           The use and inclusion of polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified
  phospholipids and derivatized lipids such as derivatized cerarmides (PEG-CER),
  including N-Octanoyl-Sphingosine- 1-[Succinyl(Methoxy Polyethylene Glycol)-2000]
  (C8 PEG-2000 ceramide) in the liposomal compositions described herein is also
  contemplated, preferably in combination with one or more of the compounds and
  lipids disclosed herein. Contemplated PEG-modified lipids include, but are not
  limited to, a polyethylene glycol chain of up to 5 kDa in length covalently attached to
  a lipid with alkyl chain(s) of C6 -C 2 0 length. The addition of such components may
  prevent complex aggregation and may also provide a means for increasing circulation
  lifetime and increasing the delivery of the lipid-polynucleotide composition to the
  target tissues, (Klibanov et al. (1990) FEBS Letters, 268 (1): 235-237), or they may
  be selected to rapidly exchange out of the formulation in vivo (see U.S. Pat. No.
  5,885,613). Particularly useful exchangeable lipids are PEG-ceramides having shorter
  acyl chains (e.g., C14 or C18). The PEG-modified phospholipid and derivatized
  lipids of the present invention may comprise a molar ratio from about 0% to about
  20%, about 0.5% to about 20%, about 1% to about 15%, about 4% to about 10%, or
  about 2% of the total lipid present in a liposomal lipid nanoparticle.
  [0096]           The present invention also contemplates the use of non-cationic lipids
  in one or more of the pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles). Such non-cationic lipids are preferably used in combination with one
  or more of the compounds and lipids disclosed herein. As used herein, the phrase
  "non-cationic lipid" refers to any neutral, zwitterionic or anionic lipid. As used
  herein, the phrase "anionic lipid" refers to any of a number of lipid species that carry
  a net negative charge at a selected pH, such as physiological pH. Non-cationic lipids
  include, but are not limited to, distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC),
                                                48

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC), dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC),
  dioleoylphosphatidylglycerol (DOPG), dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol (DPPG),
  dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE), palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine
  (POPC), palmitoyloleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine (POPE), dioleoyl
  phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane- 1-carboxylate
  (DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine (DPPE),
  dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine (DMPE), distearoyl-phosphatidyl-ethanolamine
  (DSPE), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine), DPPS (1,2
  dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine), 16-0-monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl
  PE, 18-1-trans PE, 1-stearoyl-2-oleoyl-phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), ceramides,
  sphingomyelins, cholesterol, or a mixture thereof. Such non-cationic lipids may be
  used alone, but are preferably used in combination with other excipients, for example,
  one or more of the cationic lipids disclosed herein (e.g., HGT4001, HGT4002,
  HGT4003, HGT4004 and/or HGT4005). When used in combination with a cationic
  lipid, the non-cationic lipid may comprise a molar ratio of 5% to about 90%, or
  preferably about 10 % to about 70% of the total lipid present in the lipid nanoparticle.
  [0097]           Also contemplated is inclusion of polymers in the lipid nanoparticles
  that comprise the pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions described herein.
  Suitable polymers may include, for example, polyacrylates, polyalkycyanoacrylates,
  polylactide, polylactide-polyglycolide copolymers, polycaprolactones, dextran,
  albumin, gelatin, alginate, collagen, chitosan, cyclodextrins and polyethylenimine.
  Such polymers may be used alone, but are preferably used in combination with other
  excipients, for example, one or more of the cationic lipids disclosed herein (e.g.,
  HGT4001, HGT4002, HGT4003, HGT4004 and/or HGT4005).
  [0098]           In certain embodiments, the liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) are formulated and modified to facilitate the transfection (e.g., of a
  polynucleotide) of a target cell. In another embodiment, the liposomal compositions
  (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) may be selected, prepared and modified (e.g., neutralized) to
  optimize delivery of polynucleotides to a target cell, tissue or organ. For example, if
  the target cell is a hepatocyte the properties of the pharmaceutical and/or liposomal
  compositions (e.g., size, surface charge and/or pH) may be optimized to effectively
  deliver such composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) to the target cell or organ, reduce
  immune clearance and/or promote retention in that target organ. Alternatively, if the
                                              49

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  target tissue is the central nervous system the selection and preparation of the
  pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions must consider penetration of, and
  retention within the blood brain barrier and/or the use of alternate means of directly
  delivering such compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) to such target tissue (e.g., via
  intracerebrovascular or intrathecal administration). In certain embodiments, the
  liposomal compositions described herein may be combined with a complex that
  facilitates the transfer of encapsulated materials (e.g., a complex which disrupt or
  improve the permeability of the blood brain barrier and thereby enhance the transfer
  of such encapsulated polynucleotides to the target cells). While the liposomal
  compositions described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) can facilitate introduction of
  encapsulated materials such as one or more polynucleotides into target cells, the
  addition of polycations (e.g., poly L-lysine and protamine) to, for example one or
  more of the liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) that comprise the
  liposomal compositions as a copolymer can also facilitate, and in some instances
  markedly enhance the transfection efficiency of several types of cationic liposomes by
  2-28 fold in a number of cell lines both in vitro and in vivo. (See, N.J. Caplen, et al.,
  Gene Ther. 1995; 2: 603; S. Li, et al., Gene Ther. 1997; 4, 891.)
  [0099]           In certain embodiments of the present invention, the pharmaceutical
  and liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) are prepared to encapsulate one
  or more materials or therapeutic agents (e.g., polynucleotides). The process of
  incorporating a desired therapeutic agent (e.g., mRNA) into a liposome or a lipid
  nanoparticle is referred to herein as or "loading" or "encapsulating" (Lasic, et al.,
  FEBS Lett., 312: 255-258, 1992). The lipid nanoparticle-loaded or -encapsulated
  materials (e.g., polynucleotides) may be completely or partially located in the interior
  space of the lipid nanoparticle, within the bilayer membrane of the lipid nanoparticle,
  or associated with the exterior surface of the lipid nanoparticle.
  [0100]           Loading or encapsulating, for example, a polynucleotide into a lipid
  nanoparticle may serve to protect the polynucleotide from an environment which may
  contain enzymes or chemicals (e.g., serum) that degrade such polynucleotides and/or
  systems or receptors that cause the rapid excretion of such polynucleotides.
  Accordingly, in some embodiments, the compositions described herein are capable of
  enhancing the stability of the polynucleotide(s) encapsulated thereby, particularly
  with respect to the environments into which such polynucleotides will be exposed.
                                              50

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  Encapsulating materials, such as for example polynucleotides into one or more of the
  liposomal compositions described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) also facilitates the
  delivery of such polynucleotides into the target cells and tissues. In certain
  embodiments, the liposomal compositions described herein are loaded with one or
  more therapeutic agents prior to being modified or neutralized.
  [0101]           In certain embodiments, the liposomal compositions described herein
  (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) are prepared by combining multiple lipid components (e.g.,
  one or more of the lipid compounds disclosed herein) with one or more polymer
  components. For example, a lipid nanoparticle may be prepared using HGT4003,
  DOPE, CHOL and DMG-PEG2000. A lipid nanoparticle may be comprised of
  additional lipid combinations in various ratios, including for example, HGT4001,
  DOPE and DMG-PEG2000. The selection of cationic lipids, non-cationic lipids
  and/or PEG-modified lipids which comprise the lipid nanoparticles, as well as the
  relative molar ratio of such lipids to each other, is based upon the characteristics of
  the selected lipid(s), the nature of the intended target cells or tissues and the
  characteristics of the materials or polynucleotides to be delivered by the lipid
  nanoparticle. Additional considerations include, for example, the saturation of the
  alkyl chain, as well as the size, surface charge, pH, pKa, fusogenicity and toxicity of
  the selected lipid(s).
  [0102]           The pharmaceutical and liposomal composition (e.g., lipid
  nanoparticles) for use in the present invention can be prepared by various techniques
  which are presently known in the art. Multi-lamellar vesicles (MLV) may be
  prepared conventional techniques, for example, by depositing a selected lipid on the
  inside wall of a suitable container or vessel by dissolving the lipid in an appropriate
  solvent, and then evaporating the solvent to leave a thin film on the inside of the
  vessel or by spray drying. An aqueous phase may then added to the vessel with a
  vortexing motion which results in the formation of MLVs. Unilamellar vesicles
  (ULV) can then be formed by homogenization, sonication or extrusion of the multi
  lamellar vesicles. In addition, unilamellar vesicles can be formed by detergent
  removal techniques.
  [0103]           In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical and liposomal
  compositions of the present invention comprise a lipid nanoparticle wherein the
  encapsulated polynucleotide (e.g., mRNA) is associated on both the surface of the
                                               51

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  lipid nanoparticle and encapsulated within the same lipid nanoparticle. For example,
  during preparation of the compositions of the present invention, one or more of the
  lipids described herein and which are components of the liposomal compositions may
  associate with the polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA) through electrostatic interactions
  with such polynucleotides.
  [0104]          During the preparation of liposomal compositions described herein,
  water soluble carrier agents may be also encapsulated in the aqueous interior by
  including them in the hydrating solution, and lipophilic molecules may be
  incorporated into the lipid bilayer by inclusion in the lipid formulation. In the case of
  certain molecules (e.g., cationic or anionic lipophilic polynucleotides), loading of the
  polynucleotide into preformed lipid nanoparticles or liposomes may be accomplished,
  for example, by the methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,946,683, the disclosure of
  which is incorporated herein by reference. Following encapsulation of the
  polynucleotide, the lipid nanoparticles may be processed to remove un-encapsulated
  mRNA through processes such as gel chromatography, diafiltration or ultrafiltration.
  For example, if it is desirous to remove externally bound polynucleotide from the
  surface of the liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) described herein,
  such lipid nanoparticles may be subject to a Diethylaminoethyl SEPHACEL column.
  [0105]          There are several methods for reducing the size, or "sizing", of the
  liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) disclosed herein, and any of these
  methods may generally be employed when sizing is used as part of the invention. The
  extrusion method is a one method of liposome sizing. (Hope, M J et al. Reduction of
  Liposome Size and Preparation of Unilamellar Vesicles by Extrusion Techniques. In:
  Liposome Technology (G. Gregoriadis, Ed.) Vol. 1. p 123 (1993)). The method
  consists of extruding liposomes through a small-pore polycarbonate membrane or an
  asymmetric ceramic membrane to reduce liposome sizes to a relatively well-defined
  size distribution. Typically, the suspension is cycled through the membrane one or
  more times until the desired liposome size distribution is achieved. The liposomes
  may be extruded through successively smaller pore membranes to achieve gradual
  reduction in liposome size.
  [0106]          A variety of alternative methods known in the art are available for
  sizing of a population of lipid nanoparticles. One such sizing method is described in
  U.S. Pat. No. 4,737,323, incorporated herein by reference. Sonicating a liposome or
                                             52

WO 2013/149141                                                                   PCT/US2013/034604
  lipid nanoparticle suspension either by bath or probe sonication produces a
  progressive size reduction down to small ULV less than about 0.05 microns in
  diameter. Homogenization is another method that relies on shearing energy to
  fragment large liposomes into smaller ones. In a typical homogenization procedure,
  MLV are recirculated through a standard emulsion homogenizer until selected
  liposome sizes, typically between about 0.1 and 0.5 microns, are observed. The size of
  the lipid nanoparticles may be determined by quasi-electric light scattering (QELS) as
  described in Bloomfield, Ann. Rev. Biophys. Bioeng., 10:421-450 (1981),
  incorporated herein by reference. Average lipid nanoparticle diameter may be
  reduced by sonication of formed lipid nanoparticles. Intermittent sonication cycles
  may be alternated with QELS assessment to guide efficient liposome synthesis.
  [0107]            Selection of the appropriate size of the liposomal compositions
  described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) must take into consideration the site of the
  target cell or tissue and to some extent the application for which the lipid nanoparticle
  is being made. As used herein, the phrase "target cell" refers to cells to which one or
  more of the pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions described herein are to be
  directed or targeted. In some embodiments, the target cells comprise a particular
  tissue or organ. In some embodiments, the target cells are deficient in a protein or
  enzyme of interest. For example, where it is desired to deliver a polynucleotide to a
  hepatocyte, the hepatocyte represents the target cell. In some embodiments, the
  pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions (and for example the polynucleotide
  materials encapsulated therein) of the present invention transfect the target cells on a
  discriminatory basis (i.e., do not transfect non-target cells). The compositions and
  methods of the present invention may be prepared to preferentially target a variety of
  target cells, which include, but are not limited to, hepatocytes, hematopoietic cells,
  epithelial cells, endothelial cells, lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells,
  neural cells (e.g., meninges, astrocytes, motor neurons, cells of the dorsal root ganglia
  and anterior horn motor neurons), photoreceptor cells (e.g., rods and cones), retinal
  pigmented epithelial cells, secretory cells, cardiac cells, adipocytes, vascular smooth
  muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, skeletal muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells, synovial
  lining cells, ovarian cells, testicular cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes,
  leukocytes, granulocytes and tumor cells.
  [0108]           Following transfection of one or more target cells by, for example, the
                                                53

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  polynucleotides encapsulated in the one or more liposomal compositions disclosed
  herein, the production of the product (e.g., a polypeptide or protein) encoded by such
  polynucleotide may be preferably stimulated and the capability of such target cells to
  express the polynucleotide and produce, for example, a polypeptide or protein of
  interest is enhanced. For example, transfection of a target cell by one or more
  liposomal compositions encapsulating mRNA will enhance (i.e., increase) the
  production of the protein or enzyme encoded by such mRNA.
  [0109]          In some embodiments, it may be desirable to limit transfection of the
  polynucleotides to certain cells or tissues. For example, the liver represents an
  important target organ for the compositions of the present invention in part due to its
  central role in metabolism and production of proteins and accordingly diseases which
  are caused by defects in liver-specific gene products (e.g., the urea cycle disorders)
  may benefit from specific targeting of cells (e.g., hepatocytes). Accordingly, in
  certain embodiments of the present invention, the structural characteristics of the
  target tissue may be exploited to direct the distribution of the pharmaceutical and
  liposomal compositions of the present invention (e.g., an HGT4001-based lipid
  nanoparticle) to such target tissues. For example, to target hepatocytes one or more of
  the lipid nanoparticles that comprise the pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions
  described herein may be sized or their surface charge modified such that they are able
  to readily penetrate such endothelial fenestrations to reach the target hepatocytes.
  Alternatively, a lipid nanoparticle may be sized or its surface charge modified such
  that the dimensions of the liposome are of a sufficient diameter to limit or expressly
  avoid distribution into certain cells or tissues. For example, lipid nanoparticles that
  comprise the pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions described herein may be
  sized such that their dimensions are larger than the fenestrations of the endothelial
  layer lining hepatic sinusoids to thereby limit distribution of the liposomal lipid
  nanoparticle to hepatocytes. In such an embodiment, large liposomal compositions
  (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) will not easily penetrate the endothelial fenestrations, and
  would instead be cleared by the macrophage Kupffer cells that line the liver sinusoids.
  Sizing of, for example, the liposomal composition (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) may
  therefore provide an opportunity to further manipulate and precisely control the
  degree to which expression of the encapsulated polynucleotides may be enhanced in
  one or more target cells. Generally, the size of at least one of the lipid nanoparticles
                                               54

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  that comprise the pharmaceutical and liposomal compositions of the present invention
  is within the range of about 25 to 250 nm, preferably less than about 250nm, 175nm,
   150nm, 125nm, 100nm, 75nm, 50nm, 25nm or l0nm.
  [0110]           Similarly, the compositions of the present invention may be prepared
  to preferentially distribute to other target tissues, cells or organs, such as the heart,
  lungs, kidneys, spleen. For example, the lipid nanoparticles of the present invention
  may be prepared to achieve enhanced delivery to the target cells and tissues.
  Accordingly, the compositions of the present invention may be enriched with
  additional cationic, non-cationic and PEG-modified lipids to further target tissues or
  cells.
  [0111]           In some embodiments, the lipid compounds and the pharmaceutical
  and liposomal compositions described herein (e.g., HGT4002-based lipid
  nanoparticles) distribute to the cells and tissues of the liver to enhance the delivery,
  transfection and the subsequent expression of the polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA)
  encapsulated therein by the cells and tissues of the liver (e.g., hepatocytes) and the
  corresponding production of the polypeptide or protein encoded by such
  polynucleotide. While such compositions may preferentially distribute into the cells
  and tissues of the liver, the therapeutic effects of the expressed polynucleotides and
  the subsequent production of a protein encoded thereby need not be limited to the
  target cells and tissues. For example, the targeted hepatocytes may function as a
  "reservoir" or "depot" capable of expressing or producing, and systemically or
  peripherally excreting a functional protein or enzyme, as disclosed for example, in
  International Application No. PCT/US2010/058457 (Attorney Docket No. SHIR-004
  WO1) and in United States Provisional Application No. 61/494,881 (Attorney Docket
  No. SHIR-025-001), the teachings of which are both incorporated herein by reference
  in their entirety. It should be understood that the lipid compositions, liposomal
  vehicles and related methods disclosed herein may be used to target any cells and/or
  tissues such that those targeted cells and/or tissues function as a reservoir or depot
  capable of expressing, producing or otherwise secreting a functional enzyme or
  protein. For example, the compositions disclosed herein may preferentially target and
  distribute to the cells and tissues of the lung, heart, kidneys, liver and/or spleen such
  that those cells are rendered capable of expressing (e.g., translating) the functional
  protein or enzyme that is encoded by the polynucleotide (e.g., an mRNA
                                               55

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  polynucleotide) encapsulated in the liposomal vehicles (e.g., lipid nanoparticles)
  disclosed herein. Accordingly, in certain embodiments of the present invention the
  one or more of the lipid nanoparticles that comprise the pharmaceutical and liposomal
  compositions described herein (e.g., HGT4005-based lipid nanoparticles) may target
  hepatocytes and/or preferentially distribute to the cells and tissues of the liver upon
  delivery. Following the transfection of the target hepatocytes by the polynucleotide
  encapsulated in one or more of such lipid nanoparticles, such polynucleotides are
  expressed (e.g., translated) and a functional product (e.g., a polypeptide or protein) is
  excreted and systemically distributed, where such functional product may exert a
  desired therapeutic effect.
  [0112]          The polynucleotides encapsulated in one or more of the lipid
  compounds or liposomal compositions described herein can be delivered to and/or
  transfect targeted cells or tissues. In some embodiments, the encapsulated
  polynucleotides are capable of being expressed and functional polypeptide products
  produced (and in some instances excreted) by the target cell, thereby conferring a
  beneficial property to, for example the target cells or tissues. Such encapsulated
  polynucleotides may encode, for example, a hormone, enzyme, receptor, polypeptide,
  peptide or other protein of interest. In certain embodiments, such encapsulated
  polynucleotides may also encode a small interfering RNA (siRNA) or antisense RNA
  for the purpose of modulating or otherwise decreasing or eliminating the expression
  of an endogenous nucleic acid or gene. In certain embodiments such encapsulated
  polynucleotides may be natural or recombinant in nature and may exert their
  therapeutic activity using either sense or antisense mechanisms of action (e.g., by
  modulating the expression of a target gene or nucleic acid).
  [0113]          In some embodiments, the encapsulated polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA
  encoding a deficient protein) may optionally include chemical or biological
  modifications which, for example, improves the stability and/or half-life of such
  polynucleotide or which improves or otherwise facilitates translation of such
  polynucleotide.
  [0114]          Also contemplated by the present invention is the co-delivery of one or
  more unique polynucleotides to target cells by the lipids or liposomal compositions
  described herein, for example, by combining two unique therapeutic agents or
  polynucleotides into a single lipid nanoparticle. Also contemplated is the delivery of
                                             56

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  one or more encapsulated polynucleotides to one or more target cells to treat a single
  disorder or deficiency, wherein each such polynucleotide functions by a different
  mechanism of action. For example, the pharmaceutical or liposomal compositions of
  the present invention may comprise a first polynucleotide which, for example, is
  encapsulated in a lipid nanoparticle and intended to correct an endogenous protein or
  enzyme deficiency, and a second polynucleotide intended to deactivate or "knock
  down" a malfunctioning endogenous polynucleotide and its protein or enzyme
  product. Such encapsulated polynucleotides may encode, for example mRNA and
  siRNA.
  [0115]          While in vitro transcribed polynucleotides (e.g., mRNA) may be
  transfected into target cells, such polynucleotides may be readily and efficiently
  degraded by the cell in vivo, thus rendering such polynucleotides ineffective.
  Moreover, some polynucleotides are unstable in bodily fluids (particularly human
  serum) and can be degraded or digested even before reaching a target cell. In
  addition, within a cell, a natural mRNA can decay with a half-life of between 30
  minutes and several days. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, the encapsulated
  polynucleotides provided herein, and in particular the mRNA polynucleotides
  provided herein, preferably retain at least some ability to be expressed or translated, to
  thereby produce a functional protein or enzyme within one or more target cells.
  [0116]          As used herein, the term "subject" refers to any animal (e.g., a
  mammal), including, but not limited to, humans, non-human primates, rodents, and
  the like, to which the lipids, compounds or liposomal compositions and methods of
  the present invention may be administered. Typically, the terms "subject" and
  "patient" are used interchangeably herein in reference to a human subject.
  [0117]          The ability of the lipids, compounds and/or liposomal compositions
  described herein (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) to modulate or enhance the expression of
  encapsulated polynucleotides and the production of a polypeptide or protein provides
  novel and more efficient means of effectuating the in vivo production of polypeptides
  and proteins for the treatment of a host of diseases or pathological conditions. Such
  lipid nanoparticle compositions are particularly suitable for the treatment of diseases
  or pathological conditions associated with the aberrant expression of nucleic acids
  encoding a protein or enzyme. For example, the successful delivery of
  polynucleotides such as mRNA to target organs such as the liver and in particular, to
                                              57

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  hepatocytes, can be used for the treatment and the correction of in-born errors of
  metabolism that are localized to the liver. Accordingly, the lipids, compounds,
  liposomal compositions and related methods described herein may be employed to
  treat a wide range of diseases and pathological conditions, in particular those diseases
  which are due to protein or enzyme deficiencies. The polynucleotides encapsulated
  by the lipids or liposomal compositions described herein (e.g., HGT4004-based lipid
  nanoparticles) may encode a functional product (e.g., a protein, enzyme, polypeptide,
  peptide, functional RNA, and/or antisense molecule), and preferably encodes a
  product whose in vivo production is desired.
  [0118]          The lipids, liposomal compositions and related methods of the present
  invention are broadly applicable to the delivery of therapeutic agents such as
  polynucleotides, and in particular mRNA, to treat a number of disorders. In
  particular, such compounds, compositions and related methods of the present
  invention are suitable for the treatment of diseases or disorders relating to the
  deficiency of proteins and/or enzymes. In certain embodiments, the lipid
  nanoparticle-encapsulated polynucleotides encode functional proteins or enzymes that
  are excreted or secreted by one or more target cells into the surrounding extracellular
  fluid (e.g., mRNA encoding hormones and neurotransmitters). Alternatively, in
  another embodiment, the polynucleotides encapsulated by the lipids and/or liposomal
  compositions of the present invention encode functional proteins or enzymes that
  remain in the cytosol of one or more target cells (e.g., mRNA encoding an enzyme
  associated with urea cycle or lysosomal storage metabolic disorders). Other disorders
  for which the lipids, compounds, liposomal compositions and related methods of the
  present invention are useful include, but are not limited to, disorders such as SMN1
  related spinal muscular atrophy (SMA); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); GALT
  related galactosemia; Cystic Fibrosis (CF); SLC3Al-related disorders including
  cystinuria; COL4A5-related disorders including Alport syndrome;
  galactocerebrosidase deficiencies; X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and
  adrenomyeloneuropathy; Friedreich's ataxia; Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease; TSCl
  and TSC2-related tuberous sclerosis; Sanfilippo B syndrome (MPS IIIB); CTNS
  related cystinosis; the FMR1-related disorders which include Fragile X syndrome,
  Fragile X-Associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome and Fragile X Premature Ovarian
  Failure Syndrome; Prader-Willi syndrome; Fabry disease; hereditary hemorrhagic
                                             58

WO 2013/149141                                                            PCT/US2013/034604
  telangiectasia (AT); Niemann-Pick disease Type Cl; the neuronal ceroid
  lipofuscinoses-related diseases including Juvenile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis
  (JNCL), Juvenile Batten disease, Santavuori-Haltia disease, Jansky-Bielschowsky
  disease, and PTT-1 and TPP1 deficiencies; EIF2B1, EIF2B2, EIF2B3, EIF2B4 and
  EIF2B5-related childhood ataxia with central nervous system
  hypomyelination/vanishing white matter; CACNA1A and CACNB4-related Episodic
  Ataxia Type 2; the MECP2-related disorders including Classic Rett Syndrome,
  MECP2-related Severe Neonatal Encephalopathy and PPM-X Syndrome; CDKL5
  related Atypical Rett Syndrome; Kennedy's disease (SBMA); Notch-3 related
  cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and
  leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL); SCN1A and SCN1B-related seizure disorders; the
  Polymerase G-related disorders which include Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome, POLG
  related sensory ataxic neuropathy, dysarthria, and ophthalmoparesis, and autosomal
  dominant and recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial
  DNA deletions; X-Linked adrenal hypoplasia; X-linked agammaglobulinemia; and
  Wilson's disease. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides, and in particular
  mRNA, of the present invention may encode functional proteins or enzymes. For
  example, the compositions of the present invention may include mRNA encoding
  ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS 1),
  argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or arginase 1
  (ARGI), cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), acid alpha
  glucosidase, arylsulfatase A, alpha galactosidase A, erythropoietin, al-antitrypsin,
  carboxypeptidase N, alpha-L-iduronidase, iduronate-2-sulfatase, iduronate sulfatase,
  N-acetylglucosamine- 1-phosphate transferase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, alpha
  glucosaminide acetyltransferase, N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase, N
  acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase, beta-glucosidase, galactose-6-sulfate sulfatase, beta
  galactosidase, beta-glucuronidase, glucocerebrosidase, heparan sulfamidase, heparin
  N-sulfatase, lysosomal acid lipase, hyaluronidase, galactocerebrosidase, human
  growth hormone, survival motor neuron, Factor VIII, Factor IX or low density
  lipoprotein receptors.
  [0119]          In one embodiment, the mRNA encodes a protein or an enzyme
  selected from the group consisting of human growth hormone, erythropoietin, al
  antitrypsin, acid alpha glucosidase, arylsulfatase A, carboxypeptidase N, a
                                             59

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  galactosidase A, alpha-L-iduronidase, iduronate-2-sulfatase, iduronate sulfatase, N
  acetylglucosamine- 1-phosphate transferase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, alpha
  glucosaminide acetyltransferase, N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase, N
  acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase, beta-glucosidase, galactose-6-sulfate sulfatase, beta
  galactosidase, beta-glucuronidase, glucocerebrosidase, heparan sulfamidase, heparin
  N-sulfatase, lysosomal acid lipase, hyaluronidase, galactocerebrosidase, ornithine
  transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS 1),
  argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL), arginase 1
  (ARGI), cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), survival
  motor neuron (SMN), Factor VIII, Factor IX and low density lipoprotein receptors
  (LDLR).
  [0120]           The lipids, compounds and liposomal compositions described herein
  may be administered to a subject. In some embodiments, the compositions are
  formulated in combination with one or more additional polynucleotides, carriers,
  targeting ligands or stabilizing reagents or other suitable excipients. Techniques for
  formulation and administration of drugs may be found in "Remington's
  Pharmaceutical Sciences," Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa., latest edition.
  [0121]           The lipids and liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticles) of the
  present invention may be administered and dosed in accordance with current medical
  practice, taking into account the clinical condition of the subject, the nature of the
  encapsulated materials, the site and method of administration, the scheduling of
  administration, the subject's age, sex, body weight and other factors relevant to
  clinicians of ordinary skill in the art. The "effective amount" for the purposes herein
  may be determined by such relevant considerations as are known to those of ordinary
  skill in experimental clinical research, pharmacological, clinical and medical arts. In
  some embodiments, the amount administered is effective to achieve at least some
  stabilization, improvement or elimination of symptoms and other indicators as are
  selected as appropriate measures of disease progress, regression or improvement by
  those of skill in the art. For example, a suitable amount and dosing regimen is one
  that causes at least transient expression of the one or more polynucleotides in the
  target cells.
  [0122]           Suitable routes of administration of the lipids, compounds and
  liposomal compositions disclosed herein include, for example, oral, rectal, vaginal,
                                              60

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  transmucosal, or intestinal administration; parenteral delivery, including
  intramuscular, subcutaneous, intramedullary injections, as well as intrathecal,
  intracerebroventricular, direct intraventricular, intravenous, intraperitoneal, intranasal,
  or intraocular injections or infusions. In certain embodiments, the administration of
  the lipids, compounds or liposomal compositions (e.g., lipid nanoparticle) described
  herein to a subject facilitates the contacting of such compounds or compositions to
  one or more target cells, tissues or organs.
  [0123]          Alternately, the lipids, compounds and liposomal compositions of the
  present invention may be administered in a local rather than systemic manner, for
  example, via injection or infusion of the liposomal compositions directly into a
  targeted tissue, preferably in a depot or sustained release formulation, such that the
  contacting of the targeted cells with the constituent lipid nanoparticles may be further
  facilitated. Local delivery can be affected in various ways, depending on the tissue to
  be targeted. For example, aerosols containing compositions of the present invention
  can be inhaled (for nasal, tracheal, or bronchial delivery); compositions of the present
  invention can be injected into the site of injury, disease manifestation, or pain, for
  example; compositions can be provided in lozenges for oral, tracheal, or esophageal
  application; can be supplied in liquid, tablet or capsule form for administration to the
  stomach or intestines, can be supplied in suppository form for rectal or vaginal
  application; or can even be delivered to the eye by use of creams, drops, or even
  injection. Formulations containing the lipid compounds of the present invention
  complexed with therapeutic molecules or ligands can even be surgically administered,
  for example in association with a polymer or other structure or substance that can
  allow the compositions to diffuse from the site of implantation to surrounding cells.
  Alternatively, such compositions can be applied surgically without the use of
  polymers or supports.
  [0124]          The lipids and liposomal compositions of the present invention (e.g.,
  lipid nanoparticles that have been neutralized or otherwise modified in accordance
  with the teachings provided herein) are preferably stable (e.g., when stored under
  refrigerated conditions for at least one year). In certain embodiments, the stability of
  the lipids and liposomal compositions provided herein may be extended by
  lyophilizing such compositions. Accordingly, also contemplated herein are
  lyophilized liposomal compositions comprising one or more of the lipid compounds
                                               61

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  disclosed herein and related methods for the use of such lyophilized compositions as
  disclosed for example, in United States Provisional Application No. 61/494,882
  (Attorney Docket No. SHIR-023-00 1), filed June 8, 2011, the teachings of which are
  incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
  [0125]          In certain embodiments, the compositions of the present invention are
  formulated such that they are suitable for extended-release of the, for example,
  polynucleotides or nucleic acids encapsulated therein. Such extended-release
  compositions may be conveniently administered to a subject at extended dosing
  intervals. For example, in certain embodiments, the compositions of the present
  invention are administered to a subject twice day, daily or every other day. In a
  certain embodiments, the compositions of the present invention are administered to a
  subject twice a week, once a week, every ten days, every two weeks, every three
  weeks, or more preferably every four weeks, once a month, every six weeks, every
  eight weeks, every other month, every three months, every four months, every six
  months, every eight months, every nine months or annually. Also contemplated are
  compositions and lipid nanoparticles which are formulated for depot administration
  (e.g., intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravitreally) to either deliver or release a
  polynucleotide (e.g., mRNA) over extended periods of time. Preferably, the
  extended-release means employed are combined with modifications (e.g., chemical
  modifications) introduced into the polynucleotides to enhance stability.
  [01261          While certain compounds, compositions and methods of the present
  invention have been described with specificity in accordance with certain
  embodiments, the following examples serve only to illustrate the compounds of the
  invention and are not intended to limit the same. Each of the publications, reference
  materials and the like referenced herein to describe the background of the invention
  and to provide additional detail regarding its practice are hereby incorporated by
  reference in their entirety.
  [0127]          The articles "a" and "an" as used herein in the specification and in the
  claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to include the
  plural referents. Claims or descriptions that include "or" between one or more
  members of a group are considered satisfied if one, more than one, or all of the group
  members are present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or
  process unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. The
                                             62

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  invention includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is present
  in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention
  also includes embodiments in which more than one, or the entire group members are
  present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process.
  Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention encompasses all variations,
  combinations, and permutations in which one or more limitations, elements, clauses,
  descriptive terms, etc., from one or more of the listed claims is introduced into
  another claim dependent on the same base claim (or, as relevant, any other claim)
  unless otherwise indicated or unless it would be evident to one of ordinary skill in the
  art that a contradiction or inconsistency would arise. Where elements are presented
  as lists, (e.g., in Markush group or similar format) it is to be understood that each
  subgroup of the elements is also disclosed, and any element(s) can be removed from
  the group. It should be understood that, in general, where the invention, or aspects of
  the invention, is/are referred to as comprising particular elements, features, etc.,
  certain embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist, or consist
  essentially of, such elements, features, etc. For purposes of simplicity those
  embodiments have not in every case been specifically set forth in so many words
  herein. It should also be understood that any embodiment or aspect of the invention
  can be explicitly excluded from the claims, regardless of whether the specific
  exclusion is recited in the specification. The publications and other reference
  materials referenced herein to describe the background of the invention and to provide
  additional detail regarding its practice are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                         EXAMPLES
  Example 1
  [0128]             The present example illustrates that HGT4002-based lipid
  nanoparticles may be reductively neutralized after having been loaded with mRNA
  polynucleotide constructs. The HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles were formed via
  standard ethanol injection methods as described below. (Ponsa, et al., Int. J Pharm.
  (1993) 95: 51-56.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids were prepared ahead of time
  at a concentration of 50 mg/mL and stored at -20'C.
  [0129]             Codon-optimized firefly luciferase (CO-FFL) mRNA was synthesized
                                               63

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA template, which was followed by the
  addition of a 5' cap structure (Cap 1) (Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen. Virology (2005) 86:
  1239-1249) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200 nucleotides in length as
  determined by gel electrophoresis. The 5' and 3' untranslated regions present in each
  mRNA product are represented as X and Y, respectively in SEQ ID NO: 1, as
  indicated below.
  Codon-OptimizedFirefly Luciferase (FFL) mRNVA: SEQ ID NO: 1
  XAUGGAAGAUGCCAAAAACAUUAAGAAGGGCCCAGCGCCAUUCUACCCACUCGAAGACGGGA
  CCGCCGGCGAGCAGCUGCACAAAGCCAUGAAGCGCUACGCCCUGGUGCCCGGCACCAUCGCC
  UUUACCGACGCACAUAUCGAGGUGGACAUUACCUACGCCGAGUACUUCGAGAUGAGCGUUCG
  GCUGGCAGAAGCUAUGAAGCGCUAUGGGCUGAAUACAAACCAUCGGAUCGUGGUGUGCAGCG
  AGAAUAGCUUGCAGUUCUUCAUGCCCGUGUUGGGUGCCCUGUUCAUCGGUGUGGCUGUGGCC
  CCAGCUAACGACAUCUACAACGAGCGCGAGCUGCUGAACAGCAUGGGCAUCAGCCAGCCCAC
  CGUCGUAUUCGUGAGCAAGAAAGGGCUGCAAAAGAUCCUCAACGUGCAAAAGAAGCUACCGA
  UCAUACAAAAGAUCAUCAUCAUGGAUAGCAAGACCGACUACCAGGGCUUCCAAAGCAUGUAC
  ACCUUCGUGACUUCCCAUUUGCCACCCGGCUUCAACGAGUACGACUUCGUGCCCGAGAGCUU
  CGACCGGGACAAAACCAUCGCCCUGAUCAUGAACAGUAGUGGCAGUACCGGAUUGCCCAAGG
  GCGUAGCCCUACCGCACCGCACCGCUUGUGUCCGAUUCAGUCAUGCCCGCGACCCCAUCUUC
  GGCAACCAGAUCAUCCCCGACACCGCUAUCCUCAGCGUGGUGCCAUUUCACCACGGCUUCGG
  CAUGUUCACCACGCUGGGCUACUUGAUCUGCGGCUUUCGGGUCGUGCUCAUGUACCGCUUCG
  AGGAGGAGCUAUUCUUGCGCAGCUUGCAAGACUAUAAGAUUCAAUCUGCCCUGCUGGUGCCC
  ACACUAUUUAGCUUCUUCGCUAAGAGCACUCUCAUCGACAAGUACGACCUAAGCAACUUGCA
  CGAGAUCGCCAGCGGCGGGGCGCCGCUCAGCAAGGAGGUAGGUGAGGCCGUGGCCAAACGCU
  UCCACCUACCAGGCAUCCGCCAGGGCUACGGCCUGACAGAAACAACCAGCGCCAUUCUGAUC
  ACCCCCGAAGGGGACGACAAGCCUGGCGCAGUAGGCAAGGUGGUGCCCUUCUUCGAGGCUAA
  GGUGGUGGACUUGGACACCGGUAAGACACUGGGUGUGAACCAGCGCGGCGAGCUGUGCGUCC
  GUGGCCCCAUGAUCAUGAGCGGCUACGUUAACAACCCCGAGGCUACAAACGCUCUCAUCGAC
  AAGGACGGCUGGCUGCACAGCGGCGACAUCGCCUACUGGGACGAGGACGAGCACUUCUUCAU
  CGUGGACCGGCUGAAGAGCCUGAUCAAAUACAAGGGCUACCAGGUAGCCCCAGCCGAACUGG
  AGAGCAUCCUGCUGCAACACCCCAACAUCUUCGACGCCGGGGUCGCCGGCCUGCCCGACGAC
  GAUGCCGGCGAGCUGCCCGCCGCAGUCGUCGUGCUGGAACACGGUAAAACCAUGACCGAGAA
  GGAGAUCGUGGACUAUGUGGCCAGCCAGGUUACAACCGCCAAGAAGCUGCGCGGUGGUGUUG
  UGUUCGUGGACGAGGUGCCUAAAGGACUGACCGGCAAGUUGGACGCCCGCAAGAUCCGCGAG
  AUUCUCAUUAAGGCCAAGAAGGGCGGCAAGAUCGCCGUGUAY
  X = GGGAUCCUACC (SEQ ID NO: 2)
  Y = UUUGAAUU        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
  [0130]          Next, 0.25mg of the FFL mRNA was denatured by heating it at 70'C
  for 5 minutes using a heat block. A 3mL volume of an aqueous buffered solution (10
  mM citrate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5) was prepared and heated in a 15mL RNase-Free
  conical tube by placing the tube in a heated water bath, and into which was followed
  by the instant addition of the FFL mRNA into the heated aqueous buffered solution to
  achieve a final FFL mRNA concentration of 0.25mg/3mL.
                                             64

WO 2013/149141                                                                    PCT/US2013/034604
  [01311          All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
  (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
  assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes (dynamic
  light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern Zetasizer
  instrument in 1x PBS and ImM KCl solutions, respectively.
  [0132]          To prepare the lipid nanoparticles, aliquots of 50 mg/mL ethanolic
  solutions of HGT4002, DOPE, cholesterol and DMG-PEG2000 were mixed as
  indicated below in Table 1, heated to ensure dissolution and diluted with ethanol. The
  resulting lipid solution is suitable for 0.25mg mRNA at N/P ratio of 4.
 Table 1
                                                                            Weight      Volume
  Lipid Components         Molar Ratio         MW              pmol
                                                                              (mg)        (pL)
  DMG-PEG2000                     6          2509.19            1.04           2.6        52.2
  HGT4002                        18             506             3.12            1.6       31.6
  CHOL                           20           386.65            3.47            1.3       26.8
  DOPE                           56           744.03            9.71           7.2       144.4
  Total                         100              --            17.33           12.8      255.0
  [0133]          0.5mL of the ethanolic lipid solution was injected rapidly into the
  heated (70'C) aqueous mRNA/buffer solution, shaken and the resulting suspension
  quickly returned to the 70'C water bath. The resulting nanoparticle suspension was
  concentrated, re-suspended in a sodium borate buffer (pH 8.0), passed through
  MUSTANG        Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), was filtered and diafiltrated with 1x
  PBS (pH 7.4) and further concentrated. The        Zave of the resulting lipid nanoparticles
  was 159.4nm (Dv( 5 o) = 147nm; Dv(9 o) = 299nm) and the average Zeta potential was
  28.OmV. The lipid nanoparticles demonstrated an encapsulation efficiency of
  approximately 82%.
  [0134]          The lipid nanoparticles were then exposed to aqueous solutions
  comprising the reducing agent p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME) and the Zeta potential of
  the lipid nanoparticle assessed. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 250pL (100X)
  of a p-ME solution for one hour caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle to
                                               65

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  be reduced to 15.8mV. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 250pL (1OOX) of a p
  ME solution for three hours caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be
  reduced to -0.26mV. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 25pL (1OX) of a p-ME
  solution for twenty two hours caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be
  reduced to 1.59mV.
  [0135]          The foregoing supports the conclusion that upon exposure to a
  reducing agent, the charge (i.e., Zeta potential) of HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles
  can be modulated, and in certain instances neutralized.
  Example 2
  [0136]          The present example illustrates that HGT4002-based lipid
  nanoparticles may be reductively neutralized after having been loaded with mRNA
  polynucleotide constructs. The HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles were formed via
  standard ethanol injection methods as described below. (Ponsa, et al., Int. J Pharm.
  (1993) 95: 51-56.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids were prepared ahead of time
  at a concentration of 50 mg/mL and stored at -20'C.
  [0137]          Codon-optimized firefly luciferase (CO-FFL) mRNA was synthesized
  by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA template, which was followed by the
  addition of a 5' cap structure (Cap 1) (Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen. Virology (2005) 86:
  1239-1249) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200 nucleotides in length as
  determined by gel electrophoresis. The 5' and 3' untranslated regions present in each
  mRNA product are represented as X and Y, respectively in SEQ ID NO: 1, as
  indicated below.
  Codon-OptimizedFirefly Luciferase (FFL) mRNVA: SEQ ID NO: 1
  XAUGGAAGAUGCCAAAAACAUUAAGAAGGGCCCAGCGCCAUUCUACCCACUCGAAGACGGGA
  CCGCCGGCGAGCAGCUGCACAAAGCCAUGAAGCGCUACGCCCUGGUGCCCGGCACCAUCGCC
  UUUACCGACGCACAUAUCGAGGUGGACAUUACCUACGCCGAGUACUUCGAGAUGAGCGUUCG
  GCUGGCAGAAGCUAUGAAGCGCUAUGGGCUGAAUACAAACCAUCGGAUCGUGGUGUGCAGCG
  AGAAUAGCUUGCAGUUCUUCAUGCCCGUGUUGGGUGCCCUGUUCAUCGGUGUGGCUGUGGCC
  CCAGCUAACGACAUCUACAACGAGCGCGAGCUGCUGAACAGCAUGGGCAUCAGCCAGCCCAC
  CGUCGUAUUCGUGAGCAAGAAAGGGCUGCAAAAGAUCCUCAACGUGCAAAAGAAGCUACCGA
  UCAUACAAAAGAUCAUCAUCAUGGAUAGCAAGACCGACUACCAGGGCUUCCAAAGCAUGUAC
  ACCUUCGUGACUUCCCAUUUGCCACCCGGCUUCAACGAGUACGACUUCGUGCCCGAGAGCUU
  CGACCGGGACAAAACCAUCGCCCUGAUCAUGAACAGUAGUGGCAGUACCGGAUUGCCCAAGG
  GCGUAGCCCUACCGCACCGCACCGCUUGUGUCCGAUUCAGUCAUGCCCGCGACCCCAUCUUC
  GGCAACCAGAUCAUCCCCGACACCGCUAUCCUCAGCGUGGUGCCAUUUCACCACGGCUUCGG
  CAUGUUCACCACGCUGGGCUACUUGAUCUGCGGCUUUCGGGUCGUGCUCAUGUACCGCUUCG
  AGGAGGAGCUAUUCUUGCGCAGCUUGCAAGACUAUAAGAUUCAAUCUGCCCUGCUGGUGCCC
                                             66

WO 2013/149141                                                             PCT/US2013/034604
  ACACUAUUUAGCUUCUUCGCUAAGAGCACUCUCAUCGACAAGUACGACCUAAGCAACUUGCA
  CGAGAUCGCCAGCGGCGGGGCGCCGCUCAGCAAGGAGGUAGGUGAGGCCGUGGCCAAACGCU
  UCCACCUACCAGGCAUCCGCCAGGGCUACGGCCUGACAGAAACAACCAGCGCCAUUCUGAUC
  ACCCCCGAAGGGGACGACAAGCCUGGCGCAGUAGGCAAGGUGGUGCCCUUCUUCGAGGCUAA
  GGUGGUGGACUUGGACACCGGUAAGACACUGGGUGUGAACCAGCGCGGCGAGCUGUGCGUCC
  GUGGCCCCAUGAUCAUGAGCGGCUACGUUAACAACCCCGAGGCUACAAACGCUCUCAUCGAC
  AAGGACGGCUGGCUGCACAGCGGCGACAUCGCCUACUGGGACGAGGACGAGCACUUCUUCAU
  CGUGGACCGGCUGAAGAGCCUGAUCAAAUACAAGGGCUACCAGGUAGCCCCAGCCGAACUGG
  AGAGCAUCCUGCUGCAACACCCCAACAUCUUCGACGCCGGGGUCGCCGGCCUGCCCGACGAC
  GAUGCCGGCGAGCUGCCCGCCGCAGUCGUCGUGCUGGAACACGGUAAAACCAUGACCGAGAA
  GGAGAUCGUGGACUAUGUGGCCAGCCAGGUUACAACCGCCAAGAAGCUGCGCGGUGGUGUUG
  UGUUCGUGGACGAGGUGCCUAAAGGACUGACCGGCAAGUUGGACGCCCGCAAGAUCCGCGAG
  AUUCUCAUUAAGGCCAAGAAGGGCGGCAAGAUCGCCGUGUAY
  X = GGGAUCCUACC (SEQ           ID NO: 2)
  Y = UUUGAAUU        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
  [01381          Next, 0.25mg of the FFL mRNA was denatured by heating it at 70'C
  for 5 minutes using a heat block. A 2mL volume of an aqueous buffered solution (10
  mM citrate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5) was prepared and heated in an RNase-Free conical
  tube by placing the tube in a heated water bath, and into which was followed by the
  instant addition of the FFL mRNA into the heated aqueous buffered solution to
  achieve a final FFL mRNA concentration of 0.25mg/2mL.
  [0139]          All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
  (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
  assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes (dynamic
  light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern Zetasizer
  instrument in 1x PBS and ImM KCl solutions, respectively.
  [0140]          To prepare the lipid nanoparticles, aliquots of 50 mg/mL ethanolic
  solutions of HGT4002, DOPE, cholesterol and DMG-PEG2000 were mixed as
  indicated in Table 2 below, heated to ensure dissolution and diluted with ethanol. The
  resulting lipid solution is suitable for 0.25mg mRNA at N/P ratio of 4.
 Table 2
                                                                      Weight     Volume
  Lipid Components         Molar Ratio         MW          pmol
                                                                        (mg)       (pL)
  DMG-PEG2000                     6          2509.19        1.04         2.6       52.2
  HGT4002                        18             506         3.12         1.6       31.6
                                               67

WO 2013/149141                                                                  PCT/US2013/034604
  CHOL                          20           386.65            3.47           1.3        26.8
  DOPE                          56           744.03            9.71           7.2       144.4
  Total                         100             --            17.33          12.8       255.0
  [0141]          0.5mL of the ethanolic lipid solution was injected rapidly into the
  heated (70'C) aqueous mRNA/buffer solution, shaken and the resulting suspension
  quickly returned to the 70'C water bath. The resulting nanoparticle suspension was
  concentrated, re-suspended in a sodium borate buffer (pH 8.0), passed through
  MUSTANG       Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), was filtered and diafiltrated with Ix
  PBS (pH 7.4) and further concentrated. The       Zave of the resulting lipid nanoparticles
  was 1 15.5nm (Dv( 5 o) = 92.lnm; Dv(9 o) = 162nm) and the average Zeta potential was
  29.1mV. The lipid nanoparticles demonstrated an encapsulation efficiency of
  approximately 80%.
  [0142]          The lipid nanoparticles were then exposed to aqueous solutions
  comprising the reducing agent    p-mercaptoethanol (p-ME) and the Zeta potential of
  the lipid nanoparticle assessed. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 25pL (lOX) of
  a p-ME solution for eighteen hours caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle
  to be reduced to -3.5OmV. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 250pL (100X) of a
  p-ME solution for one hour caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be
  reduced to 14.8mV. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 250pL (100X) of a          p-ME
  solution for two and one-half hours caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle
  to be reduced to 2.85mV. Exposure of the lipid nanoparticles to 250pL (100X) of a
  p-ME solution for three hours caused the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be
  reduced to -3.4OmV. The foregoing supports the conclusion that by exposing charged
  lipid nanoparticles to a reducing agent, the charge (i.e., Zeta potential) of the lipid
  nanoparticle can be modulated, and in certain instances neutralized.
  Example 3
  [0143]          The present example further illustrates that HGT4002-based lipid
  nanoparticles may be reductively neutralized after having been loaded with mRNA
  polynucleotide constructs. The HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles were formed via
  standard ethanol injection methods as described below. (Ponsa, et al., Int. J Pharm.
                                              68

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  (1993) 95: 51-56.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids were prepared ahead of time
  at a concentration of 50 mg/mL and stored at -20'C.
  [0144]          Codon-optimized firefly luciferase (CO-FFL) mRNA was synthesized
  by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA template, which was followed by the
  addition of a 5' cap structure (Cap 1) (Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen. Virology (2005) 86:
  1239-1249) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200 nucleotides in length as
  determined by gel electrophoresis. The 5' and 3' untranslated regions present in each
  mRNA product are represented as X and Y, respectively in SEQ ID NO: 1, as
  indicated below.
  Codon-Optimized Firefly Luciferase (FFL) mRNVA: SEQ ID NO: 1
  XAUGGAAGAUGCCAAAAACAUUAAGAAGGGCCCAGCGCCAUUCUACCCACUCGAAGACGGGA
  CCGCCGGCGAGCAGCUGCACAAAGCCAUGAAGCGCUACGCCCUGGUGCCCGGCACCAUCGCC
  UUUACCGACGCACAUAUCGAGGUGGACAUUACCUACGCCGAGUACUUCGAGAUGAGCGUUCG
  GCUGGCAGAAGCUAUGAAGCGCUAUGGGCUGAAUACAAACCAUCGGAUCGUGGUGUGCAGCG
  AGAAUAGCUUGCAGUUCUUCAUGCCCGUGUUGGGUGCCCUGUUCAUCGGUGUGGCUGUGGCC
  CCAGCUAACGACAUCUACAACGAGCGCGAGCUGCUGAACAGCAUGGGCAUCAGCCAGCCCAC
  CGUCGUAUUCGUGAGCAAGAAAGGGCUGCAAAAGAUCCUCAACGUGCAAAAGAAGCUACCGA
  UCAUACAAAAGAUCAUCAUCAUGGAUAGCAAGACCGACUACCAGGGCUUCCAAAGCAUGUAC
  ACCUUCGUGACUUCCCAUUUGCCACCCGGCUUCAACGAGUACGACUUCGUGCCCGAGAGCUU
  CGACCGGGACAAAACCAUCGCCCUGAUCAUGAACAGUAGUGGCAGUACCGGAUUGCCCAAGG
  GCGUAGCCCUACCGCACCGCACCGCUUGUGUCCGAUUCAGUCAUGCCCGCGACCCCAUCUUC
  GGCAACCAGAUCAUCCCCGACACCGCUAUCCUCAGCGUGGUGCCAUUUCACCACGGCUUCGG
  CAUGUUCACCACGCUGGGCUACUUGAUCUGCGGCUUUCGGGUCGUGCUCAUGUACCGCUUCG
  AGGAGGAGCUAUUCUUGCGCAGCUUGCAAGACUAUAAGAUUCAAUCUGCCCUGCUGGUGCCC
  ACACUAUUUAGCUUCUUCGCUAAGAGCACUCUCAUCGACAAGUACGACCUAAGCAACUUGCA
  CGAGAUCGCCAGCGGCGGGGCGCCGCUCAGCAAGGAGGUAGGUGAGGCCGUGGCCAAACGCU
  UCCACCUACCAGGCAUCCGCCAGGGCUACGGCCUGACAGAAACAACCAGCGCCAUUCUGAUC
  ACCCCCGAAGGGGACGACAAGCCUGGCGCAGUAGGCAAGGUGGUGCCCUUCUUCGAGGCUAA
  GGUGGUGGACUUGGACACCGGUAAGACACUGGGUGUGAACCAGCGCGGCGAGCUGUGCGUCC
  GUGGCCCCAUGAUCAUGAGCGGCUACGUUAACAACCCCGAGGCUACAAACGCUCUCAUCGAC
  AAGGACGGCUGGCUGCACAGCGGCGACAUCGCCUACUGGGACGAGGACGAGCACUUCUUCAU
  CGUGGACCGGCUGAAGAGCCUGAUCAAAUACAAGGGCUACCAGGUAGCCCCAGCCGAACUGG
  AGAGCAUCCUGCUGCAACACCCCAACAUCUUCGACGCCGGGGUCGCCGGCCUGCCCGACGAC
  GAUGCCGGCGAGCUGCCCGCCGCAGUCGUCGUGCUGGAACACGGUAAAACCAUGACCGAGAA
  GGAGAUCGUGGACUAUGUGGCCAGCCAGGUUACAACCGCCAAGAAGCUGCGCGGUGGUGUUG
  UGUUCGUGGACGAGGUGCCUAAAGGACUGACCGGCAAGUUGGACGCCCGCAAGAUCCGCGAG
  AUUCUCAUUAAGGCCAAGAAGGGCGGCAAGAUCGCCGUGUAY
  X = GGGAUCCUACC (SEQ          ID NO: 2)
  Y = UUUGAAUU        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
  [0145]          Next, 0.25mg of the FFL mRNA was denatured by heating it at 70'C
  for 5 minutes using a heat block. A 3mL volume of an aqueous buffered solution (10
                                             69

WO 2013/149141                                                                PCT/US2013/034604
  mM citrate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5) was prepared and heated in an RNase-Free conical
  tube by placing the tube in a heated water bath, and into which was followed by the
  instant addition of the FFL mRNA into the heated aqueous buffered solution to
  achieve a final FFL mRNA concentration of 0.25mg/3mL.
  [0146]          All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
  (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
  assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes (dynamic
  light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern Zetasizer
  instrument in 1x PBS and ImM KCl solutions, respectively.
  [0147]          To prepare the lipid nanoparticles, aliquots of 50 mg/mL ethanolic
  solutions of HGT4002, DOPE, cholesterol and DMG-PEG2000 were mixed as
  indicated in Table 3 below, heated to ensure dissolution and diluted with ethanol. The
  resulting lipid solution is suitable for 0.25mg mRNA at N/P ratio of 4.
 Table 3
                                                                         Weight      Volume
  Lipid Components         Molar Ratio         MW           pmol
                                                                          (mg)         (pL)
  DMG-PEG2000                     6          2509.19         1.04          2.6          52.2
  HGT4002                        18             506          3.12           1.6         31.6
  CHOL                           20           386.65         3.47           1.3        26.8
  DOPE                           56           744.03         9.71          7.2         144.4
  Total                         100              --         17.33          12.8        255.0
  [0148]          0.5mL of the ethanolic lipid solution was injected rapidly into the
  heated (70'C) aqueous mRNA/buffer solution, shaken and the resulting suspension
  quickly returned to the 70'C water bath. The resulting nanoparticle suspension was
  concentrated, re-suspended in a sodium borate buffer (pH 8.0), passed through
  MUSTANG        Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), was filtered and diafiltrated with Ix
  PBS (pH 7.4) and further concentrated. The average Zeta potential of the resulting
  lipid nanoparticles was 25.7mV.
  [0149]          A 0. IM stock solution comprising the reducing agent tris (2
  carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP) was prepared by dissolving 28.7mg TCEP in lmL of
                                               70

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  water. The lipid nanoparticles were then exposed to aqueous solutions comprising the
  TCEP and the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle assessed. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 19.5pL (5X) of a TCEP solution for five minutes caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to increase to 26. 1mV. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 19.5pL (5X) of a TCEP solution for two hours caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be reduced to 14.5mV. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 19.5pL (5X) of a TCEP solution for four hours caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be reduced to 5.65mV. It is likely that the
  concentration of the TCEP solution and the duration of exposure contributed to the
  observed changes in the Zeta potential observed in a relatively short period of time.
  [0150]          The foregoing supports the conclusion that upon exposure to a
  reducing agent, the charge (i.e., Zeta potential) of HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles
  can be modulated, and in certain instances neutralized.
  Example 4
  [0151]          The present example illustrates that HGT4002-based lipid
  nanoparticles may be reductively neutralized after having been loaded with mRNA
  polynucleotide constructs. The HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles were formed via
  standard ethanol injection methods as described below. (Ponsa, et al., Int. J Pharm.
  (1993) 95: 51-56.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids were prepared ahead of time
  at a concentration of 50 mg/mL and stored at -20'C.
  [0152]          Codon-optimized firefly luciferase (CO-FFL) mRNA was synthesized
  by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA template encoding the gene, which was
  followed by the addition of a 5' cap structure (Cap 1) (Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen.
   Virology (2005) 86: 1239-1249) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200
  nucleotides in length as determined by gel electrophoresis. The 5' and 3' untranslated
  regions present in each mRNA product are represented as X and Y, respectively in
  SEQ ID NO: 1, as indicated below.
  Codon-OptimizedFirefly Luciferase (FFL)mRNVA: SEQ ID NO: 1
  XAUGGAAGAUGCCAAAAACAUUAAGAAGGGCCCAGCGCCAUUCUACCCACUCGAAGACGGGA
  CCGCCGGCGAGCAGCUGCACAAAGCCAUGAAGCGCUACGCCCUGGUGCCCGGCACCAUCGCC
  UUUACCGACGCACAUAUCGAGGUGGACAUUACCUACGCCGAGUACUUCGAGAUGAGCGUUCG
  GCUGGCAGAAGCUAUGAAGCGCUAUGGGCUGAAUACAAACCAUCGGAUCGUGGUGUGCAGCG
  AGAAUAGCUUGCAGUUCUUCAUGCCCGUGUUGGGUGCCCUGUUCAUCGGUGUGGCUGUGGCC
                                              71

WO 2013/149141                                                            PCT/US2013/034604
  CCAGCUAACGACAUCUACAACGAGCGCGAGCUGCUGAACAGCAUGGGCAUCAGCCAGCCCAC
  CGUCGUAUUCGUGAGCAAGAAAGGGCUGCAAAAGAUCCUCAACGUGCAAAAGAAGCUACCGA
  UCAUACAAAAGAUCAUCAUCAUGGAUAGCAAGACCGACUACCAGGGCUUCCAAAGCAUGUAC
  ACCUUCGUGACUUCCCAUUUGCCACCCGGCUUCAACGAGUACGACUUCGUGCCCGAGAGCUU
  CGACCGGGACAAAACCAUCGCCCUGAUCAUGAACAGUAGUGGCAGUACCGGAUUGCCCAAGG
  GCGUAGCCCUACCGCACCGCACCGCUUGUGUCCGAUUCAGUCAUGCCCGCGACCCCAUCUUC
  GGCAACCAGAUCAUCCCCGACACCGCUAUCCUCAGCGUGGUGCCAUUUCACCACGGCUUCGG
  CAUGUUCACCACGCUGGGCUACUUGAUCUGCGGCUUUCGGGUCGUGCUCAUGUACCGCUUCG
  AGGAGGAGCUAUUCUUGCGCAGCUUGCAAGACUAUAAGAUUCAAUCUGCCCUGCUGGUGCCC
  ACACUAUUUAGCUUCUUCGCUAAGAGCACUCUCAUCGACAAGUACGACCUAAGCAACUUGCA
  CGAGAUCGCCAGCGGCGGGGCGCCGCUCAGCAAGGAGGUAGGUGAGGCCGUGGCCAAACGCU
  UCCACCUACCAGGCAUCCGCCAGGGCUACGGCCUGACAGAAACAACCAGCGCCAUUCUGAUC
  ACCCCCGAAGGGGACGACAAGCCUGGCGCAGUAGGCAAGGUGGUGCCCUUCUUCGAGGCUAA
  GGUGGUGGACUUGGACACCGGUAAGACACUGGGUGUGAACCAGCGCGGCGAGCUGUGCGUCC
  GUGGCCCCAUGAUCAUGAGCGGCUACGUUAACAACCCCGAGGCUACAAACGCUCUCAUCGAC
  AAGGACGGCUGGCUGCACAGCGGCGACAUCGCCUACUGGGACGAGGACGAGCACUUCUUCAU
  CGUGGACCGGCUGAAGAGCCUGAUCAAAUACAAGGGCUACCAGGUAGCCCCAGCCGAACUGG
  AGAGCAUCCUGCUGCAACACCCCAACAUCUUCGACGCCGGGGUCGCCGGCCUGCCCGACGAC
  GAUGCCGGCGAGCUGCCCGCCGCAGUCGUCGUGCUGGAACACGGUAAAACCAUGACCGAGAA
  GGAGAUCGUGGACUAUGUGGCCAGCCAGGUUACAACCGCCAAGAAGCUGCGCGGUGGUGUUG
  UGUUCGUGGACGAGGUGCCUAAAGGACUGACCGGCAAGUUGGACGCCCGCAAGAUCCGCGAG
  AUUCUCAUUAAGGCCAAGAAGGGCGGCAAGAUCGCCGUGUAY
  X = GGGAUCCUACC (SEQ           ID NO: 2)
  Y = UUUGAAUU        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
  [0153]          Next, 0.25mg of the FFL mRNA was denatured by heating it at 70'C
  for 5 minutes using a heat block. An 1 mL volume of an aqueous buffered solution
  (10 mM citrate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5) was prepared and heated in a 50mL RNase
  Free conical tube by placing the tube in a heated water bath, and into which was
  followed by the instant addition of the denatured CO-FFL mRNA into the heated
  aqueous buffered solution to achieve a final FFL mRNA concentration of 1mg/i 1mL.
  [0154]          All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
  (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
  assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes (dynamic
  light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern Zetasizer
  instrument in 1x PBS and ImM KCl solutions, respectively.
  [0155]          To prepare the lipid nanoparticles, aliquots of 50 mg/mL ethanolic
  solutions of HGT4002, DOPE, cholesterol and DMG-PEG2000 were mixed as
  indicated in Table 4 below, heated to ensure dissolution and diluted with ethanol. The
  resulting lipid solution is suitable for 0.25mg mRNA at N/P ratio of 4.
                                               72

WO 2013/149141                                                                   PCT/US2013/034604
 Table 4
                                                                           Weight      Volume
  Lipid Components         Molar Ratio        MW              pmol
                                                                             (mg)        (pL)
  DMG-PEG2000                   10          2509.19           2.50            6.3       125.5
  HGT4002                       50             506            12.50           6.3       126.5
  CHOL                          20           386.65            5.0             1.9       38.7
  DOPE                          20           744.03            5.0            3.7        74.4
  Total                        100              --            25.00           18.3      365.0
  [0156]          3.OmL of the ethanolic lipid solution was injected rapidly into the
  heated (70'C) aqueous mRNA/buffer solution, shaken and the resulting suspension
  quickly returned to the 70'C water bath. The resulting nanoparticle suspension was
  concentrated, re-suspended in a sodium borate buffer (pH 8.0), passed through
   MUSTANG      Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), was filtered and diafiltrated with 1x
  PBS (pH 7.4) and further concentrated. The       Zave of the resulting lipid nanoparticles
  was 58.40 nm (Dv( 5 o) = 44.7nm; Dv(9 o) = 65.lnm) and the average Zeta potential was
  +7.8mV. Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen assay
  with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100 and determined to be 88.56%.
  [0157]          A 0. IM stock solution comprising the reducing agent tris (2
  carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP) was prepared by dissolving 28.7mg TCEP in lmL of
  water. The lipid nanoparticles were then exposed to aqueous solutions comprising the
  TCEP and the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle assessed. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 39pL (lOX) of a TCEP solution for three hours caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to decrease to -17.1mV. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 19.5pL (5X) of a TCEP solution for one hour caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be reduced to -4.15mV. The foregoing supports
  the conclusion that upon exposure to a reducing agent, the charge (i.e., Zeta potential)
  of HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles can be modulated, and in certain instances
  neutralized.
  Example 5
  [0158]          The present example illustrates that HGT4002-based lipid
                                              73

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  nanoparticles may be reductively neutralized after having been loaded with mRNA
  polynucleotide constructs. The HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles were formed via
  standard ethanol injection methods as described below. (Ponsa, et al., Int. J Pharm.
  (1993) 95: 51-56.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids were prepared ahead of time
  at a concentration of 50 mg/mL and stored at -20'C.
  [0159]          Codon-optimized firefly luciferase (CO-FFL) mRNA was synthesized
  by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA template encoding the gene, which was
  followed by the addition of a 5' cap structure (Cap 1) (Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen.
  Virology (2005) 86: 1239-1249) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200
  nucleotides in length as determined by gel electrophoresis. The 5' and 3' untranslated
  regions present in each mRNA product are represented as X and Y, respectively in
  SEQ ID NO: 1, as listed below.
  Codon-Optimized Firefly Luciferase (FFL) mRNVA: SEQ ID NO: 1
  XAUGGAAGAUGCCAAAAACAUUAAGAAGGGCCCAGCGCCAUUCUACCCACUCGAAGACGGGA
  CCGCCGGCGAGCAGCUGCACAAAGCCAUGAAGCGCUACGCCCUGGUGCCCGGCACCAUCGCC
  UUUACCGACGCACAUAUCGAGGUGGACAUUACCUACGCCGAGUACUUCGAGAUGAGCGUUCG
  GCUGGCAGAAGCUAUGAAGCGCUAUGGGCUGAAUACAAACCAUCGGAUCGUGGUGUGCAGCG
  AGAAUAGCUUGCAGUUCUUCAUGCCCGUGUUGGGUGCCCUGUUCAUCGGUGUGGCUGUGGCC
  CCAGCUAACGACAUCUACAACGAGCGCGAGCUGCUGAACAGCAUGGGCAUCAGCCAGCCCAC
  CGUCGUAUUCGUGAGCAAGAAAGGGCUGCAAAAGAUCCUCAACGUGCAAAAGAAGCUACCGA
  UCAUACAAAAGAUCAUCAUCAUGGAUAGCAAGACCGACUACCAGGGCUUCCAAAGCAUGUAC
  ACCUUCGUGACUUCCCAUUUGCCACCCGGCUUCAACGAGUACGACUUCGUGCCCGAGAGCUU
  CGACCGGGACAAAACCAUCGCCCUGAUCAUGAACAGUAGUGGCAGUACCGGAUUGCCCAAGG
  GCGUAGCCCUACCGCACCGCACCGCUUGUGUCCGAUUCAGUCAUGCCCGCGACCCCAUCUUC
  GGCAACCAGAUCAUCCCCGACACCGCUAUCCUCAGCGUGGUGCCAUUUCACCACGGCUUCGG
  CAUGUUCACCACGCUGGGCUACUUGAUCUGCGGCUUUCGGGUCGUGCUCAUGUACCGCUUCG
  AGGAGGAGCUAUUCUUGCGCAGCUUGCAAGACUAUAAGAUUCAAUCUGCCCUGCUGGUGCCC
  ACACUAUUUAGCUUCUUCGCUAAGAGCACUCUCAUCGACAAGUACGACCUAAGCAACUUGCA
  CGAGAUCGCCAGCGGCGGGGCGCCGCUCAGCAAGGAGGUAGGUGAGGCCGUGGCCAAACGCU
  UCCACCUACCAGGCAUCCGCCAGGGCUACGGCCUGACAGAAACAACCAGCGCCAUUCUGAUC
  ACCCCCGAAGGGGACGACAAGCCUGGCGCAGUAGGCAAGGUGGUGCCCUUCUUCGAGGCUAA
  GGUGGUGGACUUGGACACCGGUAAGACACUGGGUGUGAACCAGCGCGGCGAGCUGUGCGUCC
  GUGGCCCCAUGAUCAUGAGCGGCUACGUUAACAACCCCGAGGCUACAAACGCUCUCAUCGAC
  AAGGACGGCUGGCUGCACAGCGGCGACAUCGCCUACUGGGACGAGGACGAGCACUUCUUCAU
  CGUGGACCGGCUGAAGAGCCUGAUCAAAUACAAGGGCUACCAGGUAGCCCCAGCCGAACUGG
  AGAGCAUCCUGCUGCAACACCCCAACAUCUUCGACGCCGGGGUCGCCGGCCUGCCCGACGAC
  GAUGCCGGCGAGCUGCCCGCCGCAGUCGUCGUGCUGGAACACGGUAAAACCAUGACCGAGAA
  GGAGAUCGUGGACUAUGUGGCCAGCCAGGUUACAACCGCCAAGAAGCUGCGCGGUGGUGUUG
  UGUUCGUGGACGAGGUGCCUAAAGGACUGACCGGCAAGUUGGACGCCCGCAAGAUCCGCGAG
  AUUCUCAUUAAGGCCAAGAAGGGCGGCAAGAUCGCCGUGUAY
  X = GGGAUCCUACC (SEQ ID NO: 2)
  Y = UUUGAAUU        (SEQ ID NO: 3)
                                            74

WO 2013/149141                                                              PCT/US2013/034604
  [01601          Next, 0.25mg of the FFL mRNA was denatured by heating it at 70'C
  for 5 minutes using a heat block. An 11mL volume of an aqueous buffered solution
  (10 mM citrate/150 mM NaCl, pH 4.5) was prepared and heated in a 50mL RNase
  Free conical tube by placing the tube in a heated water bath, and into which was
  followed by the instant addition of the denatured CO-FFL mRNA into the heated
  aqueous buffered solution to achieve a final FFL mRNA concentration of 1mg/ 11mL.
  [0161]          All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
  (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
  assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes (dynamic
  light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern Zetasizer
  instrument in 1x PBS and ImM KCl solutions, respectively.
  [0162]          To prepare the lipid nanoparticles, aliquots of 50 mg/mL ethanolic
  solutions of HGT4002, DOPE, cholesterol and DMG-PEG2000 were mixed as
  indicated below in Table 5, heated to ensure dissolution and diluted with ethanol. The
  resulting lipid solution is suitable for 0.25mg mRNA at N/P ratio of 4.
 Table 5
                                                                       Weight      Volume
  Lipid Components         Molar Ratio         MW          pmol
                                                                        (mg)         (pL)
  DMG-PEG2000                    10          2509.19       2.50          6.3         125.5
  HGT4002                        50             506        12.50         6.3         126.5
  CHOL                           20           386.65        5.0           1.9         38.7
  DOPE                           20           744.03        5.0          3.7          74.4
  Total
                                100              --        25.00         18.3        365.0
  Ethanol
                                 --              --          --           --        2635.0
  (additional)
  Final Volume                                                                      3000.0
  [0163]          3.OmL of the ethanolic lipid solution was injected rapidly into the
  heated (70'C) aqueous mRNA/buffer solution, shaken and the resulting suspension
  quickly returned to the 70'C water bath. The resulting nanoparticle suspension was
                                               75

WO 2013/149141                                                               PCT/US2013/034604
  concentrated, re-suspended in a sodium borate buffer (pH 8.0), passed through
  MUSTANG       Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), was filtered and diafiltrated with 1x
  PBS (pH 7.4) and further concentrated. The Zave of the resulting lipid nanoparticles
  was 66.43nm (Dv( 5 o) = 38.7nm; Dv(9 o) = 67.9nm) and the average Zeta potential was
  approximately 25.OmV. Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the
  Ribogreen assay with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100 and determined
  to be 70.79%.
  [0164]          A 0. IM stock solution comprising the reducing agent tris (2
  carboxyethyl)phosphine (TCEP) was prepared by dissolving 28.7mg TCEP in lmL of
  water. The lipid nanoparticles were then exposed to aqueous solutions comprising the
  TCEP and the Zeta potential of the lipid nanoparticle assessed. Exposure of the lipid
  nanoparticles to 19.5pL (5X) of a TCEP solution for one hour caused the Zeta
  potential of the lipid nanoparticle to be reduced to 14.9mV. The foregoing supports
  the conclusion that upon exposure to a reducing agent, the charge (i.e., Zeta potential)
  of HGT4002-based lipid nanoparticles can be modulated, and in certain instances
  neutralized.
                                              76

                                               CLAIMS
1. A composition comprising a lipid nanoparticle having an overall neutral surface charge and
encapsulating negatively charged mRNA, wherein said lipid nanoparticle is made by a method
comprising the steps of:
       (a) encapsulating said negatively charged mRNA within a lipid nanoparticle, wherein the
            lipid nanoparticle comprises:
                 a cationic lipid, the cationic lipid comprising a polar head-group bound to a
            lipophilic tail-group via a linker group, the polar head-group being exposed on the
            surface of the lipid nanoparticle, and the linker group being susceptible to chemical
            or enzymatic cleavage;
                 a PEG-modified lipid;
                 one or more non-cationic lipids that is zwitterionic or anionic; and
                 one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral;
       and
       (b) exposing the lipid nanoparticle to chemical or enzymatic cleavage thereby releasing
            the polar head-group from the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to provide an overall
            neutral surface charge to the lipid nanoparticle.
2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the encapsulation efficiency of step (a) is at least 75%.
3. The composition of claim 2, wherein the encapsulation efficiency is at least 90%.
4. The composition of claim 1, wherein following step (b) the lipid nanoparticle has a surface
charge or zeta potential of about -2.5 to about +2.5 mV.
5. The composition of claim 1, wherein the cationic lipid with the releasable polar head group is
       represented by the structural formula:
        R1     '     S-S'        R2
                   n                  (IV),
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
                                                   77

       wherein:
       Ri is selected from the group consisting of imidazole; guanidinium; imine; enamine;
            amino; an alkyl amino optionally-substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl,
            amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; or a pyridyl optionally substituted with alkyl,
            halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide;
       R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                                R3
                                           and
       each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
            nitro, or amide;
       R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
            C 20 alkenyl, and C 6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
            hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
       n is zero or any positive integer;
       and
       wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
            agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
            lipophilic tail-group.
6. The composition of claim 1, wherein the cationic lipid is selected from the group consisting
of:
         H
         Nr         _"         N
        N                                                (HGT4001);
                                                   78

                H
        HNyN__,S_'
             NH2                                             (HGT4002);
          N0
                                                                                     (HGT4003);
         H
         N         S-S
         N                                                                          (HGT4004); and
             NH2
        HN      N       - S
                H                                                                       (HGT4005).
7. The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises the following structure after
       the modulating step:
             H-S I-"R
                                   (VI),
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein:
       R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                               R3
                                         ,and
       each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
             nitro, or amide;
       R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
             C2o alkenyl, and C6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
             hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
                                                   79

        n is zero or any positive integer;
        and
        wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
             agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
             lipophilic tail-group.
8. The composition of claim 1, wherein said mRNA encodes ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC),
carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS 1), argininosuccinate synthetase (ASSI),
argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or arginase 1 (ARG1).
9. The composition of claim 1, wherein said mRNA encodes an enzyme or protein selected from
the group of enzymes consisting of erythropoietin, human growth hormone, cystic fibrosis
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), alpha-L-iduronidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,
alpha-glucosaminide acetyltransferase, N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase, N-acetylgalactosamine
4-sulfatase, galactose-6-sulfate sulfatase, beta-galactosidase, beta-glucuronidase,
glucocerebrosidase, heparan sulfamidase, heparin-N-sulfatase, lysosomal acid lipase, acid alpha
glucosidase, arylsulfatase A and hyaluronidase.
10. The composition of claim 1, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids that is zwitterionic
or anionic is: distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC), dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC),
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE),
palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC), palmitoyloleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine
(POPE), dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate
(DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine (DPPE), dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine
(DMPE), distearoyl-phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (DSPE), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3
phosphoethanolamine ), DPPS (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine),        16-0
monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl PE, 18-1-trans PE, 1-stearoyl-2-oleoyl
phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), a sphingomyelin, or a mixture thereof.
11. The composition of claim 1, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral
comprises cholesterol.
                                                  80

12. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a lipid nanoparticle having an overall neutral
surface charge and encapsulating negatively charged mRNA, wherein said lipid nanoparticle is
made by a method comprising the steps of:
         (a) encapsulating said negatively charged mRNA within a lipid nanoparticle, wherein the
              lipid nanoparticle comprises:
                   a cationic lipid, the cationic lipid comprising a polar head-group bound to a
              lipophilic tail-group via a linker group, the polar head-group being exposed on the
              surface of the lipid nanoparticle, and the linker group being susceptible to chemical
              or enzymatic cleavage;
                   a PEG-modified lipid;
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is zwitterionic or anionic; and
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral;
         and
         (b) exposing the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to chemical or enzymatic cleavage
              thereby releasing the polar head-group from the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to
              provide an overall neutral surface to the lipid nanoparticle.
13. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein the encapsulation efficiency of step
(a) is at least 75%.
14. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein the encapsulation efficiency is at least
90%.
15. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein following step (b) the lipid
nanoparticle has a surface charge or zeta potential of about -2.5 to about +2.5 mV.
                                                     81

16. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein the cationic lipid with the releasable
      polar head group is represented by the structural formula:
       R1       "    S-S'        R2
                   n                  (IV),
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
      wherein:
      Ri is selected from the group consisting of imidazole; guanidinium; imine; enamine;
            amino; an alkyl amino optionally-substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl,
            amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; or a pyridyl optionally substituted with alkyl,
            halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide;
      R 2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                                R3
                                           and
      each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
            nitro, or amide;
      R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
            C 20 alkenyl, and C 6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
            hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
      n is zero or any positive integer;
      and
      wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
            agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
            lipophilic tail-group.
                                                   82

17. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein the cationic lipid is selected from the
group consisting of:
         H
         N         S-S
         N                                             (HGT4001);
                H
        HNyN___SS~O
             NH2                                             (HGT4002);
          N        S _
                                                                                    (HGT4003);
         H
         N         S-S
         N                                                                         (HGT4004); and
             NH2
        HN      N       S
                H                                                                     (HGT4005).
18. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein the composition comprises the
       following structure after the modulating step:
             H-S I-"R
                                  (VI),
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein:
       R 2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                 83

                                                              I/ R3
                                          ,and
         each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
              nitro, or amide;
         R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
              C20 alkenyl, and C6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
              hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
         n is zero or any positive integer;
         and
         wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
              agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
              lipophilic tail-group.
19. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein said mRNA encodes ornithine
transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS 1), argininosuccinate
synthetase (ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or arginase 1 (ARG1).
20. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein said mRNA encodes an enzyme or
protein selected from the group of enzymes consisting of erythropoietin, human growth
hormone, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), alpha-L-iduronidase, N
acetylglucosaminidase, alpha-glucosaminide acetyltransferase, N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase,
N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase, galactose-6-sulfate sulfatase, beta-galactosidase, beta
glucuronidase, glucocerebrosidase, heparan sulfamidase, heparin-N-sulfatase, lysosomal acid
lipase, acid alpha-glucosidase, arylsulfatase A and hyaluronidase.
21. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids
that is zwitterionic or anionic is: distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC),
dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC), dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC),
dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE), palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC),
                                                    84

palmitoyloleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine (POPE), dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N
maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl
ethanolamine (DPPE), dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine (DMPE), distearoyl-phosphatidyl
ethanolamine (DSPE), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine ), DPPS (1,2
dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine), 16-0-monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl PE, 18-1
trans PE, 1-stearoyl-2-oleoyl-phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), a sphingomyelin, or a mixture
thereof.
22. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 12, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids
that is neutral comprises cholesterol.
23. A composition comprising a lipid nanoparticle having an overall neutral surface charge and
encapsulating negatively charged mRNA encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
regulator (CFTR) protein, wherein said lipid nanoparticle is made by a method comprising the
steps of:
         (a) encapsulating said negatively charged mRNA encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane
              conductance regulator (CFTR) protein within a lipid nanoparticle, wherein the lipid
              nanoparticle comprises:
                   a cationic lipid, the cationic lipid comprising a polar head-group bound to a
              lipophilic tail-group via a linker group, the polar head-group being exposed on the
              surface of the lipid nanoparticle, and the linker group being susceptible to chemical
              or enzymatic cleavage;
                   a PEG-modified lipid;
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is zwitterionic or anionic; and
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral;
         and
         (b) exposing the lipid nanoparticle to chemical or enzymatic cleavage thereby releasing
              the polar head-group from the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to provide an overall
              neutral surface charge to the lipid nanoparticle.
                                                     85

24. The composition of claim 23, wherein the encapsulation efficiency of step (a) is at least
75%.
25. The composition of claim 24, wherein the encapsulation efficiency is at least 90%.
26. The composition of claim 23, wherein following step (b) the lipid nanoparticle has a surface
charge or zeta potential of about -2.5 to about +2.5 mV.
27. The composition of claim 23, wherein the cationic lipid with the releasable polar head group
       is represented by the structural formula:
        R1       '    S-S'        R2
                    n                  (IV),
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein:
       Ri is selected from the group consisting of imidazole; guanidinium; imine; enamine;
             amino; an alkyl amino optionally-substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl,
             amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; or a pyridyl optionally substituted with alkyl,
             halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide;
       R 2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                                 R3
                                            and
       each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
             nitro, or amide;
       R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
             C 20 alkenyl, and C 6 -C20 acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
             hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
       n is zero or any positive integer;
       and
                                                    86

      wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
           agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
           lipophilic tail-group.
28. The composition of claim 23, wherein the cationic lipid is selected from the group consisting
of:
        H
        N        S-S
        N                                            (HGT4001);
              H
           NH2                                            (HGT4002);
         N        S
                                                                                 (HGT4003);
        H
        N        S-S
        N                                                                       (HGT4004); and
           NH2
       HN "IN         - S
              H                                                                     (HGT4005).
29. The composition of claim 23, wherein the composition comprises the following structure
      after the modulating step:
            H-SI-"R
                                  (VI),
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
                                               87

        wherein:
        R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                                 R3
                                            and
        each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
             nitro, or amide;
        R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
             C 20 alkenyl, and C 6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
             hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
        n is zero or any positive integer;
        and
        wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
             agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
             lipophilic tail-group.
30. The composition of claim 23, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids that is
zwitterionic or anionic is: distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC), dioleoylphosphatidylcholine
(DOPC), dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE),
palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC), palmitoyloleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine
(POPE), dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate
(DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine (DPPE), dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine
(DMPE), distearoyl-phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (DSPE), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3
phosphoethanolamine ), DPPS (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine),           16-0
monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl PE, 18-1-trans PE, 1-stearoyl-2-oleoyl
phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), a sphingomyelin, or a mixture thereof.
31. The composition of claim 23, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral
comprises cholesterol.
                                                    88

32. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a lipid nanoparticle having an overall neutral
surface charge and encapsulating negatively charged mRNA encoding cystic fibrosis
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, wherein said lipid nanoparticle is made
by a method comprising the steps of:
         (a) encapsulating said negatively charged mRNA encoding cystic fibrosis transmembrane
              conductance regulator (CFTR) protein within a lipid nanoparticle, wherein the lipid
              nanoparticle comprises:
                   a cationic lipid, the cationic lipid comprising a polar head-group bound to a
              lipophilic tail-group via a linker group, the polar head-group being exposed on the
              surface of the lipid nanoparticle, and the linker group being susceptible to chemical
              or enzymatic cleavage;
                   a PEG-modified lipid;
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is zwitterionic or anionic; and
                   one or more non-cationic lipids that is neutral;
         and
         (b) exposing the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to chemical or enzymatic cleavage
              thereby releasing the polar head-group from the surface of the lipid nanoparticle to
              provide an overall neutral surface to the lipid nanoparticle.
33. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein the encapsulation efficiency of step
(a) is at least 75%.
34. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 33, wherein the encapsulation efficiency is at least
90%.
35. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein following step (b) the lipid
nanoparticle has a surface charge or zeta potential of about -2.5 to about +2.5 mV.
                                                     89

36. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein the cationic lipid with the releasable
      polar head group is represented by the structural formula:
       R1       "    S-S'       R2
                   n                 (IV),
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
      wherein:
      Ri is selected from the group consisting of imidazole; guanidinium; imine; enamine;
            amino; an alkyl amino optionally-substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl,
            amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; or a pyridyl optionally substituted with alkyl,
            halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide;
      R 2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                               R3
                                          and
      each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
            nitro, or amide;
      R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
            C 20 alkenyl, and C6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
            hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
      n is zero or any positive integer;
      and
      wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
            agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
            lipophilic tail-group.
                                                  90

37. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein the cationic lipid is selected from the
group consisting of:
         H
         N         S-S
         N                                             (HGT4001);
                H
        HN YN
             NH2                                             (HGT4002);
          N        S
                                                                                    (HGT4003);
         H
         N         S-S
         N                                                                         (HGT4004); and
             NH2
        HN      N       S
                H                                                                     (HGT4005).
38. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein the composition comprises the
       following structure after the modulating step:
             H-S I-"R
                                  (VI),
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
       wherein:
       R 2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, acyl, pyridyl,
                                                 91

                                                              I/ R3
                                          ,and
         each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy, hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester,
              nitro, or amide;
         R 3 and R4 are each independently selected from the group consisting of C6 -C20 alkyl, C6
              C20 alkenyl, and C6 -C2o acyl, each optionally substituted with alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
              hydroxyl, amino, aryl, ether, ester, or amide; and
         n is zero or any positive integer;
         and
         wherein the modulating step comprises exposing the lipid nanoparticle to a reducing
              agent thereby cleaving the linker group and releasing the polar head-group from the
              lipophilic tail-group.
39. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids
that is zwitterionic or anionic is: distearoylphosphatidylcholine (DSPC),
dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC), dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC),
dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE), palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC),
palmitoyloleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine (POPE), dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N
maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl
ethanolamine (DPPE), dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine (DMPE), distearoyl-phosphatidyl
ethanolamine (DSPE), DLPE (1,2-dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine ), DPPS (1,2
dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine), 16-0-monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl PE, 18-1
trans PE, 1-stearoyl-2-oleoyl-phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), a sphingomyelin, or a mixture
thereof.
40. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 32, wherein said one or more non-cationic lipids
that is neutral comprises cholesterol.
                                                    92

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                              SequenceListing0287
<removed-date>
                                         SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc.
                      DeRosa, Frank
                      Guild, Braydon C.
                      Heartlein, Michael
              <120>   Lipid<U+2701>derived Neutral Nanoparticles
                      2006685<U+2701>0287
<removed-apn>
              <130>
              <150>   61/617,478
              <151>   2012<U+2701>03<U+2701>29
              <160>   3
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   1671
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Photinus pyralis
              <400> 1
              gggauccuac cauggaagau gccaaaaaca uuaagaaggg cccagcgcca uucuacccac    60
              ucgaagacgg gaccgccggc gagcagcugc acaaagccau gaagcgcuac gcccuggugc   120
              ccggcaccau cgccuuuacc gacgcacaua ucgaggugga cauuaccuac gccgaguacu   180
              ucgagaugag cguucggcug gcagaagcua ugaagcgcua ugggcugaau acaaaccauc   240
              ggaucguggu gugcagcgag aauagcuugc aguucuucau gcccguguug ggugcccugu   300
              ucaucggugu ggcuguggcc ccagcuaacg acaucuacaa cgagcgcgag cugcugaaca   360
              gcaugggcau cagccagccc accgucguau ucgugagcaa gaaagggcug caaaagaucc   420
              ucaacgugca aaagaagcua ccgaucauac aaaagaucau caucauggau agcaagaccg   480
              acuaccaggg cuuccaaagc auguacaccu ucgugacuuc ccauuugcca cccggcuuca   540
              acgaguacga cuucgugccc gagagcuucg accgggacaa aaccaucgcc cugaucauga   600
              acaguagugg caguaccgga uugcccaagg gcguagcccu accgcaccgc accgcuugug   660
              uccgauucag ucaugcccgc gaccccaucu ucggcaacca gaucaucccc gacaccgcua   720
              uccucagcgu ggugccauuu caccacggcu ucggcauguu caccacgcug ggcuacuuga   780
              ucugcggcuu ucgggucgug cucauguacc gcuucgagga ggagcuauuc uugcgcagcu   840
                                                    Page 1

                                            SequenceListing0287
<removed-date>
              ugcaagacua uaagauucaa ucugcccugc uggugcccac acuauuuagc uucuucgcua    900
              agagcacucu caucgacaag uacgaccuaa gcaacuugca cgagaucgcc agcggcgggg    960
              cgccgcucag caaggaggua ggugaggccg uggccaaacg cuuccaccua ccaggcaucc   1020
              gccagggcua cggccugaca gaaacaacca gcgccauucu gaucaccccc gaaggggacg   1080
              acaagccugg cgcaguaggc aagguggugc ccuucuucga ggcuaaggug guggacuugg   1140
<removed-apn>
              acaccgguaa gacacugggu gugaaccagc gcggcgagcu gugcguccgu ggccccauga   1200
              ucaugagcgg cuacguuaac aaccccgagg cuacaaacgc ucucaucgac aaggacggcu   1260
              ggcugcacag cggcgacauc gccuacuggg acgaggacga gcacuucuuc aucguggacc   1320
              ggcugaagag ccugaucaaa uacaagggcu accagguagc cccagccgaa cuggagagca   1380
              uccugcugca acaccccaac aucuucgacg ccggggucgc cggccugccc gacgacgaug   1440
              ccggcgagcu gcccgccgca gucgucgugc uggaacacgg uaaaaccaug accgagaagg   1500
              agaucgugga cuauguggcc agccagguua caaccgccaa gaagcugcgc ggugguguug   1560
              uguucgugga cgaggugccu aaaggacuga ccggcaaguu ggacgcccgc aagauccgcg   1620
              agauucucau uaaggccaag aagggcggca agaucgccgu guauuugaau u            1671
              <210>   2
              <211>   11
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 2
              gggauccuac c                                                          11
              <210>   3
              <211>   8
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 3
              uuugaauu                                                               8
                                                  Page 2

