  Abstract
     A method for use by a first base station in a wireless communication system, the method
  comprising: after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receiving an RLF
5 indication message related to the RLF of the terminal from a second base station that received a
  radio resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message from the terminal, the RLF
  indication message related to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global
  identifier (ECGI) of a re-establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the
  RLF occurs; identifying whether information included in the RLF indication message related to
0 the RLF of the terminal is matched with the first base station; triggering a handover preparation
  procedure towards the second base station, if the information included in the RLF indication
  message related to the RLF of a terminal is matched with the first base station based on the
  identification; and if the handover preparation procedure is triggered, transmitting a handover
  request message including a handover restriction list to the second base station.
5

[Fig. 3]
                                         SGW
    MME
         S1
                                                     base station 3
                base station      s context                            small cell cluster
                                   synchron1i         base station 2
                     RRC
                            FUE
[Fig. 4]
                             Start
                 AUE accesses base station 1                       401
          Base station 1 transmits UE context to one
     or more other base stations inthe small cell cIuster          402
    The one or more other base stations inthe small cell
        cluster of base station 1saves the UE context              403
                              End

   Title
   METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SUPPORTING FAST RECOVERY OF USER EQUIPMENT
   Related Application
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2013371174, the
   disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
   The present disclosure relates to wireless communication technology, and more particularly, to a
 0 method for supporting UE fast recovery.
   Background
   Modern mobile communication tends to be more to provide multimedia services with high-speed
   transmission. FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a structure for a system of system
 5 architecture evolution (SAE).
   A user equipment (UE) 101 is a terminal device used to receive data. An evolved universal
   terrestrial radio access network (E-UTRAN) 102 is a wireless access network, which includes a
   macro base station (eNodeB/NodeB) providing an interface for the UE to access the wireless
 0 network. A mobility management entity (MME) 103 is responsible for managing mobility
   context, session context and security information of the UE. A service gateway (SGW) mainly
   provides a user-plane function. The MME 103 and the SGW 104 may be deployed in a same
   physical entity. A packet data network gateway (PGW) 105 is responsible for functions such as
   charging, lawful monitoring and so on, also may be deployed in a same physical entity with the
 5 SGW 104. A policy and charging rule functional entity (PCRF) 106 provides a principle of
   quality of service (QoS) and a charging rule. A Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) 108 is a
   network node device, which provides routing for data transmission in Universal Mobile
   Telecommunications System (UMTS). A Home Subscriber Server (HSS) 109 is a home sub
   system of the UE, which is responsible for protecting user information such as a current position,
30 an address of a service node, user security information, packet data context of the user equipment
   and so on.
   A small cell enhancement requirement is provided in 3GPP Release 12 (Rel-12). As shown in
   FIG. 2, target scenarios of small cell enhancement include a scenario with macro cell coverage
35 and a scenario without the macro cell coverage, an indoor scenario and an outdoor scenario, a
   scenario with an ideal backhaul and a scenario with a non-ideal backhaul,.
   In a condition with the macro cell coverage, a carrier aggregation technology is provided, which
   is applied among different base stations. A macro cell and a small cell may work on different

   frequency bands. In a condition without the macro cell coverage, there is no a specific solution
   how to enhance small cell performance.
   Summary of the invention
 5     The invention provides a method for use by a first base station in a wireless communication
   system, the method comprising:
       after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receiving an RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal from a second base station that received a radio
   resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message from the terminal, the RLF indication
 0 message related to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI)
   of a re-establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs;
       identifying whether information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of
   the terminal is matched with the first base station;
       triggering a handover preparation procedure towards the second base station, if the
 5 information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of a terminal is matched
   with the first base station based on the identification; and
       if the handover preparation procedure is triggered, transmitting a handover request message
   including a handover restriction list to the second base station.
 0     The invention also provides a first base station for use in a wireless communication system,
   the first base station comprising:
       a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
       a controller configured to:
       after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receive an RLF indication
25 message related to the RLF of the terminal from a second base station that received a radio
   resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message from the terminal, the RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI)
   of a re-establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs,
       identify whether the information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF
30 of the terminal is matched with the first base station,
       trigger a handover preparation procedure towards the second base station, if the information
   included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of a terminal is matched with the first
   base station based on the identification, and
       if the handover preparation procedure is triggered, transmit a handover request message
35 including a handover restriction list to the second base station.

       The invention also provides a method for use by a first base station in a wireless
   communication system, the method comprising:
       after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receiving a radio resource control
   (RRC) re-establishment request message including information about a failure from the terminal;
 5     transmitting an RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal to a second base
   station based on the RRC re-establishment request message, the RLF indication message related
   to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re
   establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs; and
       receiving a handover request message including a handover restriction list from the second
 0 base station, if information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the
   terminal is matched with the second base station.
       The invention also provides a first base station for use in a wireless communication system,
   the first base station comprising:
 5     a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
       a controller configured to:
       after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receive a radio resource control
   (RRC) re-establishment request message including information about a failure from the terminal,
       transmit an RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal to a second base
 0 station based on the RRC re-establishment request message, the RLF indication message related
   to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re
   establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs, and
       receive a handover request message including a handover restriction list from the second base
   station, if information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal
25 is matched with the second base station.
       The invention also provides a method for use by a terminal in a wireless communication
   system, the method comprising:
       identifying occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) between the terminal and a first base
30 station;
       transmitting a radio resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message including
   information about a failure to a second base station based on the identification; and
       receiving an RRC re-establishment message from the second base station,
       wherein, after the occurrence of the RLF, an RLF indication message related to the RLF is
35 transmitted from the second base station to a first base station based on the RRC re
   establishment request message, the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal

                                                       _r
   including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re-establishment cell and a physical
   cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs,
       wherein a handover preparation procedure is triggered by the first base station, if information
   included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF is matched with the first base station,
 5     wherein a handover request message including a handover restriction list is transmitted from
   the first base station to the second base station, if the handover preparation procedure is triggered.
       The invention also provides a terminal for use in a wireless communication system, the
   terminal comprising:
 0     a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
       a controller configured to:
       identify occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) between the terminal and a first base station,
       transmit a radio resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message including
   information about a failure to a second base station based on the identification, and
 5     receive an RRC re-establishment message from the second base station,
       wherein, after the occurrence of the RLF, an RLF indication message related to the RLF is
   transmitted from the second base station to a first base station based on the RRC re
   establishment request message, the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal
   including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re-establishment cell and a physical
 0 cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs, and
       wherein a handover preparation procedure is triggered by the first base station, if information
   included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF is matched with the first base station,
       wherein a handover request message including a handover restriction list is transmitted from
   the first base station to the second base station, if the handover preparation procedure is triggered.
25
   Advantageous Effects of embodiments of the Invention
   It can be seen from the embodiments of the invention that when the UE moves in the small cell
   scenario, the method for supporting UE fast recovery provided by the present disclosure causes
   that the base station in the related small cell cluster can obtain the UE context by taking different
30 methods. Thus, when a failure occurs for the UE and the UE performs the RRC connection re
   establishment, the base station that the UE performs the RRC connection re-establishment can
   obtains the UE context, so that the RRC re-establishment can success and it is avoided that the
   UE returns to the idle mode, data is lost and service continuity is guaranteed.
35 Brief Description of Drawings
   Embodiments of the invention are described in relation to the following drawings in which:

   FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a current structure for a system of system architecture
   evolution (SAE);
   FIG. 2 is a deployment scenario of small cell enhancement;
 5
   FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating a first method for supporting UE fast recovery in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process that a UE accesses a small cell in accordance
 0 with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of synchronizing UE context in a small cell
   cluster in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of updating UE context in one or more other
   base stations in a small cell cluster in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of releasing UE context in one or more other
   base stations in a small cell cluster in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 0
   FIG. 8 is a schematic diagram illustrating a method that a base station in a small cell cluster uses
   saved UE context in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 9 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of exchanging information of small cell
 5 clusters between two base stations in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 10 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of exchanging information of small cell
   clusters between two base stations during a process of X2 handover in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
30
   FIG. 11 is a schematic diagram illustrating a process of exchanging information of small cell
   clusters between two base stations during a process of SI handover in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
35 FIG. 12 is a schematic diagram illustrating a second method for supporting UE fast recovery in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram illustrating a first method that a base station obtains UE context
   from another base station;

   FIG. 14 is a schematic diagram illustrating a second method that a base station obtains UE
   context from another base station;
 5 FIG. 15 is a schematic diagram illustrating a third method that a base station obtains UE context
   from another base station;
   FIG. 16 is a schematic diagram illustrating a fourth method that a base station obtains UE
   context from another base station.
 0
   Detailed Description
   Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below, it may be advantageous to set forth
   definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document:        the terms
   "include" and "comprise," as well as derivatives thereof, mean inclusion without limitation; the
 5 term "or," is inclusive, meaning and/or; the phrases "associated with" and "associated
   therewith," as well as derivatives thereof, may mean to include, be included within, interconnect
   with, contain, be contained within, connect to or with, couple to or with, be communicable with,
   cooperate with, interleave, juxtapose, be proximate to, be bound to or with, have, have a property
   of, or the like; and the term "controller" means any device, system or part thereof that controls at
 0 least one operation, such a device may be implemented in hardware, firmware or software, or
   some combination of at least two of the same.      It should be noted that the functionality
   associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed, whether locally or
   remotely.     Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent
   document, those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many, if not most instances,
 5 such definitions apply to prior, as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.
   FIGURES 3 through 16, discussed below, and the various embodiments used to describe the
   principles of the present disclosure in this patent document are by way of illustration only and
   should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the disclosure.     Those skilled in the art
30 will understand that the principles of the present disclosure may be implemented in any suitably
   arranged telecommunication technologies.
   In order to make the technical scheme and advantages of the present disclosure clearer, the
   present disclosure is described in further detail hereinafter with reference to accompanying
35 drawings and examples.
   When a UE moves in a small cell scenario, a failure can occur. In order to enable the UE to be
   recovered fastly in a failure condition, the present disclosure provides two methods for
   supporting UE fast recovery so as to avoid that the UE returns to an idle mode, avoid data loss

   and guarantee service continuity.
   A main idea of a first method is that: when a UE accesses a serving base station, the serving base
   station accessed by the UE performs UE context synchronization to one or more other base
 5 stations in a small cell cluster of the serving base station. Thus, when a failure occurs for the UE
   and the UE needs to re-establish an RRC connection, since a base station which receives the
   RRC connection reestablishment request message saves UE context information, the RRC re
   establishment can success.
 0 A main idea of a second method is that: when a failure occurs for a UE and the UE needs to re
   establish a RRC connection, a base station which receives the RRC connection reestablishment
   request message requests UE context from a base station lastly serving the UE before the failure,
   so that an RRC re-establishment can success.
 5 A common point of the above two methods are: a base station which receives the RRC
   connection reestablishment request message obtains UE context through adopting different
   methods. Thus, an RRC re-establishment can success. It is avoided that the UE returns to an idle
   mode and data is lost. Service continuity is guaranteed as well.
 0 The two methods provided by the present disclosure are instructed in detail as follows.
   FIG.3 is a schematic diagram illustrating a first method for supporting UE fast recovery.
   A small cell cluster is composed by some base stations of small cell. A network can configure
 5 some base stations of small cell to compose the small cell cluster according to a geographical
   area. Alternatively, according to difference of a small cell accessed by the UE, the small cell
   cluster can be composed by some base stations around a base station of the small cell. When the
   UE accesses a base station of the small cell cluster, a serving base station accessed by the UE
   transmits UE context to one or more other base stations in the small cell cluster. Afterwards,
30 when the UE context updating occurs or the UE context needs to be released, the base station
   accessed by the UE notifies the one or more other base stations in the small cell cluster to
   perform UE context updating or release. For example, according to FIG.3, base station 1
   synchronizes UE context to base station 2 and base station 3.
35 In the above first method, a process that a UE accesses a small cell is shown in FIG. 4, and
   includes steps as follows:
   In step 401, the UE accesses base station 1. Herein, it is assumed that base station 1 is a base
   station of a small cell, and base station 1 is included in a small cell cluster.

                                                       0
   The process that the UE accesses base station 1 can be that: the UE is changed from an idle mode
   to an active mode in a cell of base station 1. Alternatively the UE accesses the cell of base station
   1 through handover (in this condition, base station 1 is a target base station of the handover).
 5
   In step 402, base station 1 transmits UE context to one or more other base stations in the small
   cell cluster, e.g., eNB2 and eNB3 as shown in figure 3.
   The UE context includes one or more kinds of information as follows: UE security context,
 0 ERAB information, Source MME information, an identifier of the UE in a source MME
   UE capability, a handover limitation list, and UE history information.
   The UE context can also include a cell identifier of a cell accessed by the UE in base station 1
 5 (that is, a cell accessed by the UE in base station 1). The UE context can also include frequency
   information of the cell accessed by the UE in base station 1. Alternatively, the cell identifier can
   be an E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier (ECGI). The UE context also includes the identifier of
   the UE in the cell accessed by the UE in base station 1. The identifier of the UE can be CRNTI.
   The UE context can also include other UE context information, which is not limited in the
 0 present disclosure.
   In step 403, a base station receiving the UE context saves the UE context information.
   It is described in an embodiment in FIG.8 about how the base station uses the saved UE context
 5 specifically.
   A process that base station 1 transmits UE context to base station 2 is taken as an example, to
   illustrate the process that base station 1 transmits the UE context to one or more other base
   stations in the small cell cluster of base station 1. As shown in FIG.5, the process includes steps
30 as follows:
   The process shown in FIG.5 can occur during the process that a UE is changed from an idle
   mode to an active mode, alternatively, can occur during the process that the UE accesses base
   station 1 through handover.
35
   In step 501, base station 1 transmits UE context information to base station 2.
   Base station 2 and base station 1 are in a same small cell cluster. Base station 1 can obtain
   whether base station 2 is in the small cell cluster of base station 1 according to operator

   configuration (i.e., configuration information). Alternatively, base station 1 can determine base
   stations of several small cells around the cell according to difference of a cell accessed by the UE.
   And these base stations are taken as base station 2. The UE context is transmitted to base station
   2. Alternatively, base station 1 can determine base stations in a small cell cluster around base
 5 station 1 according to a UE measurement report, which are taken as base station 2. The UE
   context information is transmitted to base station 2. It should be noted that base station 1
   determines the base stations included in the small cell cluster according to a measurement report
   of a current UE. Alternatively, base station 1 determines the base stations included in the small
   cell cluster according to measurement reports of several UEs in the current cell. Alternatively,
 0 base station 1 can determine the base stations included in the small cell cluster of base station 1
   according to the operator configuration (i.e., the configuration information). Afterwards, the base
   stations are filtered according to the measurement report of the UE or measurement reports of a
   group of UEs. Thus, the base stations in the small cell cluster are determined finally. In a
   practical application, the base stations in the small cell cluster are determined according to other
 5 factors, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
   Content included in a transmission message of the UE context information is same as that of step
   402, which is not described repeated herein.
 0 In step 502, base station 2 saves the UE context information in the transmission message of the
   UE context information.
   In step 503, base station 2 transmits a UE context information confirmation message to base
   station 1.
-5
   The present disclosure provides two ways that base station 2 responds bases station 1, which
   includes that base station 2 transmits a response message and base station 2 does not transmit the
   response message. Thus, step 503 in FIG.5 is shown as a dotted line.
30 Base station 1 can transmit UE context information to base station 2 via an X2 interface.
   Alternatively base station 1 can transmit UE context information to base station 2 via core
   network through an SI interface.
   When receiving a UE context modification message from a MME, or receiving an ERAB
35 establishment message/an ERAB modification message/an ERAB release message and so on for
   the UE from the MME, which indicate that the UE context needs to be updated, base station 1
   triggers a process of updating the UE context to one or more other base stations in the small cell
   cluster, as shown in FIG.6.

   In step 601, base station 1 transmits an UE context information updating message to base station
   2.
   The UE context information updating message includes updated UE context information, also
 5 includes a cell identifier of a cell accessed by the UE in base station 1 and an identifier of the UE
   in the cell accessed by the UE in base station 1. The identifier of the UE in the cell accessed by
   the UE in base station 1 can be CRNTI. The updated UE context information can include one or
   more kinds of UE context information described in step 402.
 0 In step 602, base station 2 saves the updated UE context information.
   In step 603, base station 2 transmits a confirmation of updating the UE context information to
   base station 1.
 5 The present disclosure also provides two ways that base station 2 responds base station 1, which
   includes base station 2 transmits a response message and base station 2 does not transmit the
   response message. Thus, step 603 in FIG.6 is shown as a dotted line.
   Base station 1 can transmit UE context information to base station 2 via an X2 interface.
 0 Alternatively base station 1 can transmit UE context information to base station 2 via         core
   network through an SI interface.
   When the UE is changed from an active mode to an idle mode in a cell of base station 1, or the
   UE moves out of the cell of base staiton1, or the UE moves out of the cell of base staiton1 and a
 5 target cell is not in the small cell cluster of base station 1, base station 1 triggers a process of
   releasing UE context information to one or more other base stations in the small cell cluster of
   base station 1, as shown in FIG.7.
   In step 701, base station 1 transmits a request message of releasing the UE context to base station
30 2. The message includes a cell identifier of a cell accessed by the UE in base station 1 and an
   identifier of the UE in the cell accessed by the UE in base station 1. The identifier of the UE in
   the cell accessed by the UE in base station 1 can be CRNTI.
   After receiving the request message of releasing the UE context, base station 2 releases the UE
35 context of the corresponding UE.
   In step 702, base station 2 transmits a response message of releasing the UE context to base
   station 1. Herein, the present disclosure also provides two ways that base station 2 responds
   bases station 1, which includes that base station 2 transmits a response message and base station

                                                       1[ 1
   2 does not transmit the response message. Thus, step 702 in FIG.7 is shown as a dotted line.
   Base station 1 can transmit UE context release message to base station 2 via an X2 interface.
   Alternatively base station 1 can transmit UE context release message via core network to base
 5 station 2 through an SI interface.
   As described above, a base station in a small cell cluster can save the UE context transmitted by
   one or more other base stations. A process how a base station saving the UE context uses the
   saved UE context is illustrated by combination with FIG.8. As shown in FIG.8, a process
 0 includes steps as follows.
   In step 801, when a failure occurs for a UE in base station 1, the UE transmits an RRC
   connection re-establishment request message to base station 2.
 5 The RRC connection re-establishment request message includes a cell identifier of a cell where
   the failure occurs for the UE. The cell identifier can be a PCI. The RRC connection re
   establishment request message can also include frequency information of the cell where the
   failure occurs. Alternatively, the cell identifier can be an ECGI. The message can also include an
   identifier of the UE in a cell where the failure occurs for the UE. The identifier of the UE in the
 0 cell where the failure occurs for the UE can be a CRNTI.
   In step 802, since base station 2 saves UE security context information, an RRC connection re
   establishment success. Base station 2 transmits a RRC re-establishment message to the UE.
 5 In step 803, the UE transmits an RRC re-establishment completion message to base station 2.
   In step 804, base station 2 transmits a path switch request message to a MME serving the UE.
   Herein, base station 2 knows the MME serving the UE according to the UE context information.
30 Herein, base station 2 sends out messages in steps 802 and 804. There is not an absolute order
   for these two messages.
   In step 805, the MME transmits a path switch request confirmation message to base station 2.
35 The process of a control plane is described above. A behavior of a user plane is not limited.
   Some operation ways for the user plane are illustrated as follows, which can further reduce data
   loss, guarantee business continuity.
   A first way: when receiving a RRC re-establishment request message of step 801, base station 2

   assigns an TEID and a transport layer address for uplink and/or downlink data forwarding, and
   transmits the TEID and the transport layer address to base station 1.
   For the downlink data forwarding, when determining the downlink data forwarding, base station
 5 2 assigns the TEID and the transport layer address for the downlink data forwarding, and
   transmits them to base station 1. For the uplink data forwarding, when requesting the uplink data
   forwarding, base station 2 assigns the TEID and the transport layer address for the uplink data
   forwarding, and transmits them to base station 1. Base station 1 determines whether to accept the
   uplink data forwarding. Base station 2 transmits a cell identifier of a source cell of the UE (a
 0 serving cell when the UE is in base station 1), an identifier of the UE in the source cell to base
   station 1. Base station 1 starts to forward data of the UE to base station 2 according to the cell
   identifier and the identifier of the UE in the cell, which are received from base station 2, and user
   plane of the data forwarding assigned by base station 2. Base station 1 transmits data
   transmission context to base station 2. The data transmission context includes a PDCP SN and a
 5 HFN. A downlink PDCP SN indicates a SN needed to be used for a next PDCP SDU. An uplink
   PDCP SN indicates a SN of a first lost PDCP SDU. The data transmission context can also
   include a reception state of an uplink PDCP SDU. Base station 2 can only request data
   forwarding carried by an acknowledge mode (AM) of a Radio link control protocol (RLC). In
   order to guarantee data transmission in order, base station 2 can transmit the data received from
 0 base station 1 firstly, and then transmit the data received from a core network for the UE.
   A second way: according to a measurement report of a UE, at the same time of transmitting
   downlink data to the UE, data is also transmitted to a neighbor base station of which a signal
   quality is good in a small cell cluster. And corresponding data transmission context is also
 5 transmitted. When the UE has a re-establishment in base station 2, base station 2 starts to
   transmit the downlink data to the UE according to the data transmission context received from
   base station 1, and transmit the corresponding uplink data packet to a core network.
   A third way: a core network transmits data to some base stations in a small cell cluster at the
30 same time. Thus, base station 2 receives the data from the core network, synchronously with
   base station 1.
   According to a process shown in FIG.8, it is guaranteed that a RRC connection re-establishment
   of a UE successes, so that the UE does not return to an idle mode and data loss is reduced, user
35 experience is improved.
   The present disclosure provides some methods to make two base stations exchange information
   of small cell cluster of the two base stations respectively. The methods are respectively
   illustrated in detail as follows.

   FIG.9 is a schematic diagram illustrating a first method for exchanging small cell cluster
   information between two base stations. The method includes:
 5 In step 901, base station 1 transmits an X2 setup request message to base station 2. The X2 setup
   request message includes information of a small cell cluster of base station 1.
   The information of the small cell cluster includes a list of base stations in the small cell cluster of
   base station 1. The list of the base stations can be a list of base station identifiers, or a list of base
 0 station IP addresses, or a list of other information which can identify the base stations. The
   information of the small cell cluster can be a small cell cluster identifier. Base station 2 saves the
   received information.
   In step 902, base station 2 transmits an X2 setup response message to base station 1. The X2
 5 setup response message includes information of a small cell cluster of base station 2.
   The information of the small cell cluster includes a list of base stations in the small cell cluster of
   base station 2. The list of the base stations can be a list of base station identifiers, or a list of base
   station IP addresses, or a list of other information which can identify the base stations. The
 0 information of the small cell cluster can be a small cell cluster identifier. Base station 1 saves the
   received information.
   A second method for exchanging small cell cluster information between two base stations is that:
-5 When there is no an X2 interface between base station 1 and base station 2, the small cell cluster
   information in a method as shown in FIG.9 is transmitted through a core network between base
   station 1 and base station 2, i.e., through an SI interface.
   A third method for exchanging small cell cluster information between two base stations is
30 described hereinafter.
   A cell in base station 2 broadcasts information of a small cell cluster. The information of the
   small cell cluster is same as that described in step 902. A UE accesses a cell in base station 1,
   reads broadcast information of the cell in base station 2, obtains the information of the small cell
35 cluster of base station 2, and transmits the information of the small cell cluster of base station 2
   to base station 1. Through a similar process, base station 2 can obtain information of a small cell
   cluster of base station 1.
   A small cell cluster of base station 1 clusterr) and a small cell cluster of base station 2 (cluster2)

                                                        1 -r
   can be different. That is, one or more base stations included in the small cell cluster of base
   station 1 can be not exactly same as one or more base stations included in the small cell cluster
   of base station 2. Through the three methods above, base station 1 and base station 2 have
   already respectively obtained information of small cell clusters of correspondent base stations.
 5 When the UE is handed over from base station 1 to base station 2, base station 2 is needed to
   synchronize the UE context to a base station in cluster2 and release the UE context in a base
   station not in cluster2. During a process of handing over the UE from base station 1 to base
   station 2, base station 1 is a source base station of handover, base station 2 is a target base station
   of the handover. A small cell cluster of the source base station is referred to as a source small
 0 cell cluster, i.e., cluster hereinafter. A small cell cluster of the target base station is referred to
   as a target small cell cluster, i.e., cluster2 hereinafter. The present disclosure provides three ways
   for synchronizing the UE context.
   A first synchronization way: base station 2 synchronizes UE context to one or more other base
 5 stations in cluster2, i.e., base station 2 performs a process as shown in FIG.5 for a base stations
   in cluster2. Base station 1 releases the UE context in a base station in cluster, i.e., base station 1
   performs a process as shown in FIG.7 for the base station in cluster.
   A second synchronization way: for a base station in both cluster and cluster2, base station 2
 0 performs a process as shown in FIG. 6, transmits updated UE context to the base station.
   Corresponded with this method, during a process of handover preparation, a source base station
   (e.g., base station 1) transmits an identifier of a cell where a UE locates in base station and an
   identifier of the UE in the cell of base station 1 to a target base station (e.g., base station 2). A
   message of requesting to update UE context from base station 2 includes the identifier of the cell
 5 and the identifier of the UE. Thus, the base station in both cluster and cluster2 can update the
   corresponding UE context according to a request of base station 2.
   For a base station in cluster2 but not in cluster, base station 2 performs a process as shown in
   FIG.5 to transmit the UE context information to the base station. For a base station in cluster
30 but not in cluster2, base station 1 performs a process as shown in FIG.7 to release the UE context
   in the base station.
   A third synchronization way: for a base station in both cluster and cluster2, base station 2
   performs a process as shown in FIG.6 to transmit UE context updating to the base station.
35 Corresponded to this method, during a process of handover preparation, a source base station
   (e.g., base station 1) transmits an identifier of a cell where a UE locates in base station and an
   identifier of the UE in the cell of base station 1 to a target base station (e.g., base station 2). A
   request message of the UE context updating from base station 2 includes the identifier of the cell
   and the identifier of the UE. Thus, the base station in both cluster and cluster2 can update the

                                                       I -)
   corresponding UE context according to a request of base station 2. For a base station in cluster2
   but not in cluster, base station 2 performs a process as shown in FIG.5 to transmit UE context
   information to the base station. For a base station in cluster but not in cluster2, base station 2
   performs a process as shown in FIG.7 to release UE context of the UE in the base station.
 5 Corresponded to this method, during the process of the handover preparation, the source base
   station (e.g., base station 1) transmits the identifier of the cell where a UE locates in base station
   1 and the identifier of the UE in the cell of base station 1 to the target base station (e.g., base
   station 2). The request message of the UE context updating from base station 2 includes the
   identifier of the cell and the identifier of UE. Thus, the base station in both cluster and cluster2
 0 can update the corresponding UE context according to the request of base station 2.
   In addition to the aforementioned methods, small cell cluster information can be exchanged
   between two base stations during an X2 handover process or an SI handover process, which are
   respectively instructed as follows by combination with FIG. 10 and FIG. 11.
 5
   FIG. 10 is a method for exchanging information of small cell clusters between two base stations
   in a process of handing over a UE from a source base station to a target base station through X2
   handover in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The process includes
   steps as follows.
 0
   In step 1001, the source base station transmits a handover request message to the target base
   station. The message includes the information of a small cell cluster of the source base station.
   Content included in the information of the small cell cluster is same as that of step 901, which is
   not described repeatedly herein.
-5
   In step 1002, the target base station transmits a handover request confirmation message to the
   source base station.
   Optionally, the message can include the information of a small cell cluster of the target base
30 station. Content included in the information of the small cell cluster is same as that of step 902,
   which is not described repeatedly herein.
   In step 1003, a current handover execution process is performed.
35 In step 1004, a current handover completion process is performed.
   In step 1005, a process of synchronizing UE context in a new small cell cluster is performed. The
   target base station and the source base station synchronize the UE context information in one or
   more other base stations according to the information of small cell clusters exchanged in step

   1001 and/or step 1002. A specific synchronization way is same as description above, which is
   not described repeatedly herein.
   It should be noted that a process of synchronizing the UE context in step 1005 can be in
 5 accordance with the information exchanged in step 1001 and step 1002, which is performed as
   soon as handover completion. Alternatively, the information of the small cell cluster of base
   station 2 may be not included in step 1002. After the handover completion, base station 2 re
   executes a measurement process for the UE. The information of the small cell cluster of base
   station 2 is obtained in accordance with the measurement of the UE. Afterwards, the process of
 0 synchronizing the UE context is performed. When the process of synchronizing the UE context
   needs participation of base station 1, after obtaining the information of the small cell cluster of
   base station 2, base station 2 can transmits a message to base station 1 to notify the information
   of the small cell cluster of base station 2 to base station 1.
 5 FIG. 11 is a method for exchanging information of small cell clusters between two base stations
   during a process that a UE is handed over from a source base station to a target base station
   through SI handover, which includes steps as follows:
   In step 1101, the source base station transmits a handover requirement message to a MME. The
 0 message includes the information of a small cell cluster of the source base station. Content
   included in the information of the small cell cluster is same as that of step 901, which is not
   described repeatedly herein. The information of the small cell cluster can be included in a
   transparent container from the source base station to the target base station.
 5 In step 1102, the MME transmits the handover request message to the target base station. The
   message includes the information of the small cell cluster of the source base station. The content
   included in the information of the small cell cluster is same as that of step 901, which is not
   described repeatedly herein. The information of the small cell cluster can be included in the
   transparent container from the source base station to the target base station.
30
   In step 1103, the target base station transmits a handover request confirmation message to the
   MME.
   Optionally, the message can include the information of the small cell cluster of the target base
35 station. The content included in the information of the small cell cluster is same as that of step
   902, which is not described repeatedly herein. The information of the small cell cluster can be
   included in the transparent container from the target base station to the source base station.
   In step 1104, the MME transmits a handover command message to the source base station.

                                                       I /
   When the handover request confirmation message in step 1103 includes the information of the
   small cell cluster of the target base station, the handover command message in this step also
   includes the information of the small cell cluster of the target base station. The content of the
 5 small cell cluster is same as that of step 902, which is not described repeatedly herein. The
   information of the small cell cluster can be included in the transparent container from the target
   base station to the source base station.
   In step 1105, a process of handover execution is performed.
 0
   In step 1106, a process of handover completion is performed.
   In step 1107, a process of synchronizing UE context in a new small cell cluster is performed. The
   target base station and the source base station synchronize the UE context according to small cell
 5 cluster exchanged in step 1101 and step 1102, and/or step 1103 and step 1104. A specific
   synchronization way is described as above, which is not described repeatedly herein.
   It should be noted that a process of synchronizing the UE context in step 1107 can be in
   accordance with the information exchanged from steps 1101 to 1104, which is performed as soon
 0 as handover completion. Alternatively, the information of the small cell cluster of base station 2
   may be not included in steps 1103 and 1104. After the handover completion, base station 2 re
   executes a measurement process for the UE. The information of the small cell cluster of base
   station 2 is obtained in accordance with the measurement of the UE. Afterwards, the process of
   synchronizing the UE context is performed. When the process of synchronizing the UE context
 5 needs participation of base station 1, after obtaining the information of the small cell cluster of
   base station 2, base station 2 can transmits the information to base station 1 to notify the
   information of the small cell cluster of base station 2 to base station 1. The message can be an
   X2 interface message, alternatively can be an SI interface message.
30 A first method for supporting UE fast recovery is described specifically in accordance with
   embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in FIG. 12, a second method for supporting UE
   fast recovery is described specifically as follows in accordance with embodiments of the present
   disclosure. The method shown in FIG.12 includes steps as follows.
35 In step 1201, when a failure occurs for a UE in base station 1, the UE performs cell reselection,
   e.g., selecting cell 2 of base station 2, and transmits a RRC re-establishment request message to
   base station 2.
   The RRC re-establishment request message includes a cell identifier of a cell where the failure

                                                      10
   occurs for the UE. The cell identifier can be a PCI. The RRC re-establishment message can also
   include frequency information of the cell where the failure occurs. The cell identifier can an
   ECGI alternatively. The message can also include an identifier of the UE in the cell where the
   failure occurs for the UE. The identifier of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs for the UE
 5 can be a CRNTI. The RRC connection re-establishment request message can also include a TAI
   of the cell where the failure occurs.
   In step 1202, base station 2 obtains UE context from base station 1. The base station 1 or base
   station 2 can perform access check for the UE. Base station 1 can also perform security check for
 0 the UE. In particular, there are four methods that base station 2 obtains the UE context from base
   station 1 and base station 1 or base station 2 performs the access check respectively as shown in
   FIG. 13, FIG. 14, FIG. 15 and FIG.16. It is also introduced in FIG. 13, FIG. 14, FIG. 15 and
   FIG. 16 that base station 1 performs the security check for the UE.
 5 Afterwards, base station 1 stops transmitting downlink data for the UE, and forwards the data to
   base station 2.
   The first method is shown in FIG 13, which includes the following steps. Base station 2
   transmits a UE information request message to base station 1 to request UE context information.
 0 The message includes the cell identifier of the cell (the cell in base station 1) where the failure
   occurs for the UE. The cell identifier can be the PCI. The message can also include frequency
   information of the cell where the failure occurs. The cell identifier can include the ECGI
   alternatively, or include the PCI and the ECGI at the same time. The message also includes the
   identifier of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs for the UE. The identifier of the UE in the
 5 cell where the failure occurs for the UE can be the CRNTI. The identifier of the UE in the cell
   where the failure occurs for the UE can be an eNB X2 AP ID of the UE in the source base station
   alternatively. The message can also include a short Media Access Control (MAC) identifier
   (shortMACI).
30 The message also includes the cell identifier PCI and/or ECGI of a re-establishment cell. The
   message also includes eNB X2 AP ID assigned in an interface between eNB 1 and eNB2 for the
   UE by eNB2.
   In step 1302, base station 1 performs security check, access check for the UE, and performs
35 PLMN selection.
   A method that base station 1 performs the security check for the UE includes that: performing
   the security check for the UE by use of the PCI or the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs
   and obtained from step 1301, CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs and the

                                                      I[9/
   shortMACI. Base station 1 finds the cell where the failure occurs according to the PCI of the cell
   where the failure occurs. In order to avoid PCI confusion, base station 1 can find the cell where
   the failure occurs according to the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs or PCI and
   frequency information of the cell where the failure occurs. Base station 1 finds the UE context
 5 according to CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs. Base station 1 computes the
   shortMACI according to cell identifier PCI of the re-establishment cell and security context in
   the UE context. If the shortMACI computed and the shortMACI received from base station 1 are
   same, the UE passes the security check. Otherwise, the UE does not pass the security check.
   eNBI transmits UE information failure to eNB2 in step 1303.
 0
   A method that base station 1 performs the access check for the UE includes: performing the
   access check for the UE according to the cell identifier of the re-establishment cell and UE
   handover restriction list (HRL). Base station 1 determines whether PLMN IDs broadcasted in the
   re-establishment cell includes a registered PLMN (rPLMN) ID or an equivalent PLMN
 5 (ePLMN) ID of the UE, determines whether the re-establishment cell is not in a tracking area
   (TA) prohibited for the UE and determines whether the re-establishment cell is not in a radio
   access technology (RAT) prohibited for the UE. Base station 1 can obtain the cell identifier of
   the cells in base station 2, a TAC supported by the cells in base station 2 and a PLMN ID list of
   the cells in base station 2 through X2 setup procedure. Afterwards, base station 1 knows a
 0 PLMN ID list broadcasted by the reestablish cell in base station 2 and the TA (TAC or TAI)
   where the reestablish cell in base station 2 locates according to the PCI or the ECGI of the
   reestablish cell in base station 2 received in step 1301 and information obtained during X2 setup.
   The message in step 1301 can include the TA (TAC or TAI) of the re-establishment cell and the
   broadcasted PLMN ID list. If the PLMN IDs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell does not
 5 include the rPLMN or the ePLMN of the UE, or the re-establishment cell is included in a
   prohibited TA, or the re-establishment cell is included in a prohibited RAT for the UE, the
   access check fails. Otherwise, the access check successes. Base station 1 knows the RAT to
   which the re-establishment cell belongs according to frequency of the re-establishment cell or
   configuration. If the access check fails, eNBI transmits UE information failure to eNB2 in step
30 1303. In the condition that the access check successes, base station 1 selects a serving PLMN in
   one or more PLMNs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell and the PLMN ID is rPLMN ID or
   ePLMN ID of the UE. Base station 1 takes the newly-selected PLMN as the rPLMN, and takes
   the previous rPLMN and other ePLMNs as ePLMNs that are put in a HRL. The new HRL is
   transmitted to base station 2 in step 1304.
35
   In step 1303, according to a result of the security check and a result of the access check in step
   1302, in the condition that both the security check and the access check succeed, eNBI transmits
   a UE information response to eNB2, in the condition that either the security check or the access
   check fails, eNBI transmits a UE information failure to base station 2.

   The UE information response or the UE information failure includes an eNB UE SI AP assigned
   for the UE by eNB2. The UE information response can also include an eNB UE X2 AP assigned
   for the UE by eNBI. The UE information failure can also include a failure reason, e.g., a
 5 malicious UE or prohibited access.
   In another method, in the condition that both the security check and the access check success,
   eNBI can transmit a message in step 1304 directly. In the condition that check fails, eNBI does
   not transmit the message to eNB2. eNB2 knows that the UE information request fails according
 0 to an implementation way such as a timer. Thus, a RRC re-establishment reject message is
   transmitted to the UE in step 1203.
   In step 1304, eNBI transmits a handover request message to eNB2. The message can include
   eNB UE X2 AP ID assigned for the UE by eNB2. An identifier of a target cell in the handover
 5 request message is the ECGI of the re-establishment cell received from base station 2 in step
   1301. The security information in the handover request message is computed according to the
   PCI and the frequency of the re-establishment cell. eNB 1 can obtain the frequency of the re
   establishment cell during the process of establishing X2 between eNBI and eNB2. Alternatively,
   the frequency of the re-establishment cell can be included in step 1301.
 0
   In step 1305, eNB2 transmits a handover request confirmation message to eNBI.
   In a re-establishment scenario, the handover request confirmation message may not include a
   transparent container from a target base station to a source base station.
-5
   Steps 1305 and 1203 are transmitted by eNB2. There are no absolute order between steps 1305
   and 1203, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
   It should be noted that, in the condition that there is no X2 interface between base station 2 and
30 base station 1, the messages of steps 1301-1305 can be transmitted via a S1 interface. When base
   station 2 transmits the UE information request to base station 1 in the S1 interface via an MME,
   the UE information request includes the TAI and the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs
   received from the UE in step 1201. TAI is used for routing among core networks and finding the
   MME with which base station 1 connects. The MME connected with base station 1 finds base
35 station 1 by use of the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs.
   A second method is as shown in FIG. 14, which in detail includes the following steps.
   Steps 1401 and 1402 are respectively the same as steps 1301 and 1302, which is not described

                                                      - I[
   repeatedly herein. It should be noted that, in the condition that either the access check or the
   security check fails in step 1402, base station 1 transmits the UE information failure to base
   station 2 in step 1403.
 5 In step 1403, according to a result of security check and a result of access check in step 1402, in
   the condition that both the security check and the access check success, eNBI transmits a UE
   information response to eNB2. In the condition that either the security check or the access check
   fails, eNBI transmits a UE information failure to base station 2.
 0 The UE information failure includes eNB UE SI AP ID assigned for the UE by eNB2. The UE
   information failure can also include a failure reason, e.g., a malicious UE or prohibited access.
   The UE information response includes eNB UE SI AP ID assigned for the UE by eNB2. The UE
   information response can also include eNB UE X2 AP ID assigned for the UE by eNB 1.
 5
   The UE information response message includes the UE context information. The UE context
   information includes one or more kinds of information as follows: UE security context, ERAB
   information, Source MME information, an identifier of a UE in a source MME, UE capability, a
   handover limitation list, and UE history information.
 0
   The ERAB information includes an ERAB identifier, ERAB QoS information, an ERAB uplink
   GTP TEID, whether downlink data forwarding is needed.
   The UE context can also include the cell identifier of the cell where a failure occurs for the UE in
 5 base station 1. The cell identifier can be the PCI. The UE context can also include frequency
   information of the cell where the failure occurs. The cell identifier can be the ECGI alternatively.
   The UE context also includes the identifier of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs for the
   UE in base station 1. The identifier of the UE can be the CRNTI or eNB X2 AP ID of the UE in
   the source base station. The UE context information can also include other UE context
30 information, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
   The UE context information also includes SN status information. The SN status information
   includes a PDCP SN and HFN status information. In detail, the SN status information includes
   receiving status of an uplink PDCP SDU of the ERAB that data forwarding is needed and a
35 COUNT value of uplink and downlink. The COUNT value refers to the PDCP SN and HFN
   information. A downlink PDCP SN indicates an SN needed to be used for a next PDCP SDU. An
   uplink PDCP SN indicates a SN of a first lost PDCP SDU. Base station 2 can only request uplink
   data forwarding carried through a RLC acknowledge mode (AM). In order to ensure data
   transmission in order, base station 2 can transmits the data received from base station 1 to the UE

   firstly, and then transmits the data received from the core network to the UE. Base station 1 can
   transmit the SN status information to base station 2 through the UE information response
   message, alternatively transmit it through another separate message.
 5 Base station 1 stops transmitting downlink data to the UE.
   In step 1404, base station 2 allocates resource for the REAB. Base station 2 transmits a UE
   information indication to base station 1. The UE information indication can be a confirmation
   message of step 1403, can also be an independent indication message. The message includes
 0 eNB UE X2 AP ID assigned by eNBI and eNB2.
   The message can also include an accepted ERAB list. The accepted ERAB list includes a
   downlink and/or uplink GTP TEID for data forwarding. The message can also include an ERAB
   list not accepted.
 5
   After receiving the message, base station 1 can start forwarding data to base station 2.
   Steps 1404 and 1203 are transmitted by base station 2. There is no absolute order between 1404
   and 1203, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
 0
   It should be noted that, in the condition that there is no X2 interface between base station 2 and
   base station 1, the messages of steps 1401-1404 can be transmitted via a S1 interface. When base
   station 2 transmits the UE information request to base station 1 in the S1 interface via an MME,
   the UE information request includes the TAI and the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs
 5 received from the UE in step 1201. TAI is used for routing among core networks and finding the
   MME with which base station 1 connects. The MME connected with base station 1 finds base
   station 1 by use of the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs.
   A third method is as shown in FIG. 15, which includes the following steps.
30
   Step 1501 is the same as step 1301, which is not described repeatedly herein.
   In step 1502, base station 1 performs security check for the UE. Base station 1 performs the
   security check for the UE by use of the PCI or the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs and
35 obtained from step 1501, the CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs, the
   shortMACI. Base station 1 finds the cell where the failure occurs according to the PCI of the cell
   where the failure occurs. In order to avoid PCI confusion, base station 1 finds the cell where the
   failure occurs according to the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs or PCI and frequency
   information of the cell where the failure occurs received in step 1501. Base station 1 finds the

   UE context according to the CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs. Base station 1
   computes the shortMACI according to cell identifier PCI of the re-establishment cell and
   security context in the UE context. If the shortMACI computed and the shortMACI received
   from base station 1 are same, the UE passes the security check. Otherwise, the UE does not pass
 5 the security check.
   In the condition that the security check successes, base station 1 transmits a handover request
   message to base station 2 in step 1503.
 0 In the condition that security check fails, base station 1 does not transmit the message in step
   1503. eNB2 knows that the UE information request fails according to an implementation way,
   e.g., a timer mechanism. Thus, a RRC re-establishment reject message is transmitted to the UE
   in step 1203.
 5 In another method, the security check can also be performed after base station 2 receives the
   handover request message in step 1504. Thus, this step can be skipped. Corresponding to this
   way, the handover request message in step 1503 can include the security context of the UE in the
   cell where the failure occurs. Base station 2 computes the shortMACI according to cell identifier
   PCI of the re-establishment cell and the security context in the UE context received from base
 0 station 1. If the shortMACI computed and the shortMACI received from the UE in step 1201 are
   same, the UE passes the security check. Otherwise, the UE does not pass the security check.
   Base station 2 transmits RRC Re-establishment reject to UE in step 1203.
   In step 1503, eNBI transmits the handover request message to eNB2. The message can include
 5 eNB UE X2 AP ID assigned for the UE by eNB2. An identifier of a target cell in the handover
   request message is the ECGI of the re-establishment cell received from base station 2 in step
   1301. The security information in the handover request message is computed according to the
   PCI and the frequency of the re-establishment cell. eNB 1 can obtain the frequency of the re
   establishment cell during the process of establishing X2 between eNBI and eNB2. Alternatively,
30 the frequency of the re-establishment cell can be included in step 1301.
   Base station 1 transmits HRL information of the UE to base station 2.
   In step 1504, base station 2 performs access check for the UE. Base station 2 performs the access
35 check according to a cell identifier of the re-establishment cell and HRL of the UE. Base station
   2 determines whether the PLMN IDs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell includes an
   rPLMN ID or an ePLMN ID of the UE, whether the re-establishment cell is not included in the
   prohibited TA, and whether the re-establishment cell is not included in the prohibited RAT. If
   the PLMN IDs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell doesn't include the rPLMN ID or the

   ePLMN ID of the UE, or the re-establishment cell is included in the prohibited TA, or the re
   establishment cell is included in the prohibited RAT, the access inspection fails. Otherwise, the
   access check successes. If the access check fails, eNB2 transmits a handover preparation failure
   in step 1505. In the condition that access check successes, base station 2 selects a serving PLMN
 5 in the PLMN IDs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell and the PLMN ID is the rPLMN ID or
   ePLMN ID of the UE. Base station 2 takes the newly-selected PLMN as the rPLMN, and takes
   the previous rPLMN and other ePLMNs as ePLMNs that are put in a HRL. Base station 2 put the
   newly-selected PLMN ID in the TAI, and transmits the TAI to the MME in step 1206.
 0 In step 1505, eNB2 transmits a handover request confirmation message to eNBI. In the
   condition that the access check successes, or the access check and the security check success,
   eNB2 transmits the handover request confirmation message to eNB 1.
   In a re-establishment scenario, the handover request confirmation message may not include a
 5 transparent container from a target base station to a source base station.
   Steps 1505 and 1203 are transmitted by eNB2. There is no absolute order between step 1305 and
   step 1203, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
 0 It should be noted that, in the condition that there is no X2 interface between base station 2 and
   base station 1, the messages of steps 1501-1505 can be transmitted via a SI interface. When base
   station 2 transmits the UE information request to base station 1 in the SI interface via an MME,
   the UE information request includes the TAI and ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs that is
   received from the UE in step 1201. TAI is used for routing among core networks and finding the
 5 MME with which base station 1 connects. The MME connected with base station 1 finds base
   station 1 by use of the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs.
   A forth method is as shown in FIG. 16, which includes the following steps.
30 In step 1601, base station 2 transmits a radio link failure indication message to base station 1.
   The message includes a PCI of the cell where the failure occurs, a C-RNTI of the UE in the cell
   where the failure occurs, a short MAC-I received from UE in RRC connection re-establishment
   request message and an ECGI of a re-establishment cell. The message can also include the ECGI
   of the cell where the failure occurs. The message can also include an indicator whether base
35 station 2 requests UE context. In the condition that base station 2 has not the UE context, the
   message includes an indicator of requesting the UE context. In the condition that base station 2
   includes the indicator of requesting the UE context, a RRC connection re-establishment reject
   message is not transmitted to the UE for the moment. After a message in step 1603 is received, a
   message in step 1203 is transmitted to the UE. Alternatively, in the condition that the message in

   step 1603 is not received, the RRC connection re-establishment reject message is transmitted to
   the UE.
   In step 1602, base station 1 performs security check, access check for the UE, and performs
 5 PLMN selection.
   When the radio link failure indication message received by base station 1 includes the indicator
   of requesting the UE context, base station 1 performs the security check, the access check for the
   UE, and performs the PLMN selection.
 0
   Base station 1 knows the PCI of the re-establishment cell, supported PLMN ID(s), a TAC and
   frequency information according to the ECGI of the re-establishment cell received from base
   station 2 and an ECGI, a PCI, a supported PLMN ID(s) and a TAC of a serving cell in base
   station 2 obtained during the process of establishing a X2 interface.
 5
   A method that base station 1 performs the security check for the UE is that: base station 1
   performs the security check for the UE by use of the PCI or the ECGI of the cell where the
   failure occurs and obtained from step 1601, CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs
   and the shortMACI. Base station 1 can find the cell where the failure occurs according to the PCI
 0 of the cell where the failure occurs. In order to avoid PCI confusion, base station 1 can find the
   cell where the failure occurs according to the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs received
   in step 1601 or PCI and the frequency information of the cell where the failure occurs. Base
   station 1 finds the UE context according to the CRNTI of the UE in the cell where the failure
   occurs. Base station 1 computes the shortMACI according to cell identifier PCI of the re
 5 establishment cell and security context in the UE context. If the shortMACI computed and the
   shortMACI received from base station 1 are same, the UE passes the security PCI or. Otherwise,
   the UE does not pass the security PCI.
   A method that base station 1 performs the access PCI or for the UE is that: base station 1
30 performs the access PCI or according to the cell identifier of the re-establishment cell and a HRL
   of the UE. Base station 1 determines whether PLMN IDs broadcasted in the re-establishment cell
   includes a registered PLMN (rPLMN) ID or an equivalent PLMN (ePLMN) ID, determines
   whether the re-establishment cell is not in a tracking area (TA) prohibited for the UE and
   determines whether the re-establishment cell is not in a radio access technology (RAT)
35 prohibited for the UE. Base station 1 can obtain the cell identifier of the cell in base station 2, a
   TAC supported by the cell in base station 2 and a PLMN ID list of the cell in base station 2
   through X2 setup procedure. Afterwards, base station 1 knows a PLMN ID list broadcasted by
   the cell in base station 2 and the TA where the cell in base station 2 locates according to the PCI
   or the ECGI of the cell in base station 2 received in step 1601 and information obtained during

   X2 setup procedure. The message in step 1601 can include the TA (TAC or TAI) of the re
   establishment cell and the broadcasted PLMN ID list. If the PLMN ID broadcasted by the re
   establishment cell does not include the rPLMN or the ePLMN of the UE, or the re-establishment
   cell is included in a prohibited TA, or the re-establishment cell is included in a prohibited RAT
 5 for the UE, the access check fails. Otherwise, the access check successes. Base station 1 knows
   the RAT to which the re-establishment cell belongs according to frequency of the re
   establishment cell or configuration. In the condition that the access check successes, base station
   1 selects a serving PLMN in one or more PLMN IDs broadcasted by the re-establishment cell
   and the PLMN ID is the rPLMN ID or ePLMN ID of the UE. Base station 1 takes the newly
 0 selected PLMN as the rPLMN, and takes the previous rPLMN and other ePLMNs as ePLMNs
   that are put in a HRL. The new HRL is transmitted to base station 2 in step 1603.
   In the condition that the security check and the access check success, base station 1 transmits the
   handover request message in step 1603 to base station 2.
 5
   In the condition that either the security check or the access check fails, base station 1 does not
   transmits the message in step 1603. eNB2 knows UE context request failure according to an
   implementation way, e.g., a timer mechanism. Thus, the RRC connection reject message is
   transmitted to the UE in step 1203.
 0
   In another method, the security check can also be performed after base station 2 receives the
   handover request message from base station 1 in step 1603. Thus, security check in this step can
   be skipped. Corresponding to this way, the handover request message in step 1603 can include
   the security context of the UE in the cell where the failure occurs. Base station 2 computes the
 5 shortMACI according to cell identifier PCI of the re-establishment cell and the security context
   in the UE context received from base station 1. If the shortMACI computed and the shortMACI
   received from the UE in step 1201 are same, the UE passes the security check. Otherwise, the
   UE does not pass the security check. Base station 2 transmits the RRC connection re
   establishment reject message to UE in step 1203.
30
   In step 1603, eNBI transmits the handover request message to eNB2.
   In another method, the message in step 1601 may not include the indicator of requesting the UE
   context. If the message in step 1601 includes a RRC connection establishment indicator to
35 indicate that the radio link failure is triggered by RRC connection establishment, base station 1
   does not need to transmit the message in this step. If the radio link failure indicator is triggered
   by the RRC connection re-establishment and base station 1 has not perform handover preparation
   to the re-establishment cell in base station 2, base station 1 can trigger the process in the step.

                                                      L- I
   The target cell identifier in the handover request message is the ECGI of the re-establishment
   cell received from base station 2 in step 1601. The security information in the handover request
   message is computed according to the PCI and the frequency of the re-establishment cell. eNBI
   can obtain the frequency of the re-establishment cell during the process of establishing a X2
 5 interface between eNBI and eNB2. Alternatively, the frequency of the re-establishment cell is
   included in step 1301.
   Base station 1 transmits the HRL information of the UE to base station 2.
 0 In step 1604, eNB2 transmits a handover request confirmation message to eNB 1. In the
   condition that resource in eNB2 is not enough or other abnormal conditions, base station 2 can
   transmit a handover preparation failure message to base station. In this condition, a RRC
   connection re-establishment reject message is transmitted to the UE in step 1203.
 5 For the re-establishment scenario, the handover request confirmation message may not include a
   transparent container from a target base station to a source base station.
   Base station 2 implements step 1604 and 1203. There is no absolute order between step 1604 and
   step 1203, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
 0
   It should be noted that, in the condition that there is no X2 interface between base station 2 and
   base station 1, the messages of steps 1601-1604 can be transmitted via a SI interface. When base
   station 2 transmits the radio link failure indicator to base station 1 in the SI interface via an
   MME, the radio link failure indicator includes the TAI and the ECGI of the cell where the failure
 5 occurs received from the UE in step 1201. TAI is used for routing among core networks and
   finding the MME with which base station 1 connects. The MME connected with base station 1
   finds base station 1 by use of the ECGI of the cell where the failure occurs.
   In step 1203, base station 2 transmits a RRC connection re-establishment message to the UE. If
30 the access check or the security check fails for the UE in step 1202, base station 2 transmits a
   RRC connection re-establishment reject message to the UE in this step.
   In step 1204, the UE transmits a RRC connection re-establishment complete message to base
   station 2. In the condition of receiving the RRC connection re-establishment message in step
35 1203, the UE transmits the RRC connection re-establishment complete message to base station 2.
   In step 1205, a process of RRC connection reconfiguration between base station 2 and the UE is
   performed. Base station 2 transmits a RRC connection reconfiguration message to the UE. The
   UE transmits a RRC connection reconfiguration complete message to base station 2.

                                                     -0U
   In step 1206, base station 2 transmits a path switch request message to a MME serving the UE to
   request that the core network hands over a downlink user plane. Herein, base station 2 obtains
   the MME serving the UE according to the UE context information received from base station 1
 5 in step 1202.
   In step 1207, the MME transmits a downlink path switch response message to base station 2.
   In both steps 1206 and 1203, base station 2 sends out messages. There is not an absolute order
 0 for the two messages themselves, which is not limited in the present disclosure.
   In step 1208, base station 2 requests resource release to base station 1. In the present disclosure,
   the method can include or not include the step. If the step is not performed, after base station 1
   has no data to be forwarded and receives end marker from a MME, resource assigned for the UE
 5 and UE context are released. If the step is performed, after base station 1 receives the message,
   has no the data to be forwarded and base station 1 receives the end marker from the MME, the
   resource assigned for the UE and the UE context are released.
   So far, the process for the method as shown in FIG.12 ends.
 0
   Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment, various
   changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art.      It is intended that the
   present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the
   appended claims.
-5

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
       1. A method for use by a first base station in a wireless communication system, the method
   comprising:
 5     after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receiving an RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal from a second base station that received a radio
   resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message from the terminal, the RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI)
   of a re-establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs;
 0     identifying whether information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of
   the terminal is matched with the first base station;
       triggering a handover preparation procedure towards the second base station, if the
   information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of a terminal is matched
   with the first base station based on the identification; and
 5     if the handover preparation procedure is triggered, transmitting a handover request message
   including a handover restriction list to the second base station.
       2. The method of claim 1, wherein a context obtained based on the handover preparation
   procedure is used to perform access check of the terminal by the second base station.
 0
       3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first base station is a serving base station of the
   terminal when the RLF of the terminal occurred.
       4. A first base station for use in a wireless communication system, the first base station
25 comprising:
       a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
       a controller configured to:
       after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receive an RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal from a second base station that received a radio
30 resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message from the terminal, the RLF indication
   message related to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI)
   of a re-establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs,
       identify whether the information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF
   of the terminal is matched with the first base station,

       trigger a handover preparation procedure towards the second base station, if the information
   included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of a terminal is matched with the first
   base station based on the identification, and
       if the handover preparation procedure is triggered, transmit a handover request message
 5 including a handover restriction list to the second base station.
       5. The first base station of claim 4, wherein a context obtained based on the handover
   preparation procedure is used to perform access check of the terminal by the second base station.
 0     6. The first base station of claim 4, wherein the first base station is a serving base station of
   the terminal when the RLF of the terminal occurred.
       7. A method for use by a first base station in a wireless communication system, the method
   comprising:
 5     after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receiving a radio resource control
   (RRC) re-establishment request message including information about a failure from the terminal;
       transmitting an RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal to a second base
   station based on the RRC re-establishment request message, the RLF indication message related
   to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re
 0 establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs; and
       receiving a handover request message including a handover restriction list from the second
   base station, if information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the
   terminal is matched with the second base station.
25     8. The method of claim 7, wherein a context obtained based on the handover request message
   is used to perform access check of the terminal by the first base station.
       9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second base station is a serving base station of the
   terminal when the RLF of the terminal occurred.
30
       10. A first base station for use in a wireless communication system, the first base station
   comprising:
       a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
       a controller configured to:
35     after occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) of a terminal, receive a radio resource control
   (RRC) re-establishment request message including information about a failure from the terminal,

                                                      -Y I
       transmit an RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal to a second base
   station based on the RRC re-establishment request message, the RLF indication message related
   to the RLF of the terminal including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re
   establishment cell and a physical cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs, and
 5     receive a handover request message including a handover restriction list from the second base
   station, if information included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal
   is matched with the second base station.
       11. The first base station of claim 10, wherein a context obtained based on the handover
 0 request message is used to perform access check of the terminal by the first base station.
       12. The first base station of claim 10, wherein the second base station is a serving base station
   of the terminal when the RLF of the terminal occurred.
 5     13. A method for use by a terminal in a wireless communication system, the method
   comprising:
       identifying occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) between the terminal and a first base
   station;
       transmitting a radio resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message including
 0 information about a failure to a second base station based on the identification; and
       receiving an RRC re-establishment message from the second base station,
       wherein, after the occurrence of the RLF, an RLF indication message related to the RLF is
   transmitted from the second base station to a first base station based on the RRC re
   establishment request message, the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal
25 including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re-establishment cell and a physical
   cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs,
       wherein a handover preparation procedure is triggered by the first base station, if information
   included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF is matched with the first base station,
       wherein a handover request message including a handover restriction list is transmitted from
30 the first base station to the second base station, if the handover preparation procedure is triggered.
       14. The method of claim 13, wherein an access check of terminal is performed and the RRC
   re-establishment message is transmitted based on a context obtained by the handover preparation
   procedure.
35
       15. A terminal for use in a wireless communication system, the terminal comprising:

                                                     -Y/_
      a transceiver configured to transmit and receive a signal; and
      a controller configured to:
      identify occurrence of a radio link failure (RLF) between the terminal and a first base station,
      transmit a radio resource control (RRC) re-establishment request message including
5 information about a failure to a second base station based on the identification, and
      receive an RRC re-establishment message from the second base station,
      wherein, after the occurrence of the RLF, an RLF indication message related to the RLF is
  transmitted from the second base station to a first base station based on the RRC re
  establishment request message, the RLF indication message related to the RLF of the terminal
0 including an E-UTRAN cell global identifier (ECGI) of a re-establishment cell and a physical
  cell identity (PCI) of a cell where the RLF occurs, and
      wherein a handover preparation procedure is triggered by the first base station, if information
  included in the RLF indication message related to the RLF is matched with the first base station,
      wherein a handover request message including a handover restriction list is transmitted from
5 the first base station to the second base station, if the handover preparation procedure is triggered.
      16. The terminal of claim 15, wherein an access check of terminal is performed and the RRC
  re-establishment message is transmitted based on a context obtained by the handover preparation
  procedure.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
