                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides algorithm-based molecular assays that involve measurement
of expression levels of genes, or their co-expressed genes, from a biological sample
obtained from a prostate cancer patient. The genes may be grouped into functional gene
subsets for calculating a quantitative score useful to predict a likelihood of a clinical outcome
for a prostate cancer patient.

         GENE EXPRESSION PROFILE ALGORITHM AND TEST FOR
              DETERMINING PROGNOSIS OF PROSTATE CANCER
                                RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application Nos.
61/593,106, filed January 31, 2012; 61/672,679, filed July 17, 2012; and 61/713,734, filed
October 15, 2012, and is a divsional of AU 2013215448, which is the national phase of
PCT/US2013/023409 (WO 2013/116144), all of which are hereby incorporated by reference
herein in their entirety.
                                    TECH NICAL FIELD
[0002] The present disclosure relates to molecular diagnostic assays that provide information
concerning gene expression profiles to determine prognostic information for cancer patients.
Specifically, the present disclosure provides an algorithm comprising genes, or co-expressed
genes, the expression levels of which may be used to determine the likelihood that a prostate
cancer patient will experience a positive or a negative clinical outcome.
                                      INTRODUCTION
[0003] The introduction of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening in 1987 has led to the
diagnosis and aggressive treatment of many cases of indolent prostate cancer that would
never have become clinically significant or caused death. The reason for this is that the
natural history of prostate cancer is unusual among malignancies in that the majority of cases
are indolent and even if untreated would not progress during the course of a man's life to
cause suffering or death. While approximately half of men develop invasive prostate cancer
during their lifetimes (as detected by autopsy studies) (B. Halpert et al, Cancer 16: 737-742
(1963); B. Holund, ScandJ UrolNephrol 14: 29-35 (1980); S. Lundberg et al., ScandJ Urol
Nephrol 4: 93-97 (1970); M. Yin et al., J Urol 179: 892-895 (2008)), only 17% will be
diagnosed with prostate cancer and only 3% will die as a result of prostate cancer. Cancer
Facts and Figures. Atlanta, GA: American Cancer Society (2010); JE Damber et al., Lancet
371: 1710-1721 (2008).
[0004] However, currently, over 90% of men who are diagnosed with prostate cancer, even
low-risk prostate cancer, are treated with either immediate radical prostatectomy or definitive
radiation therapy. MR Cooperberg et al., J Clin Oncol 28: 1117-1123 (2010); MR
Cooperberg et al., J Clin Oncol 23: 8146-8151 (2005). Surgery and radiation therapy reduce
the risk of recurrence and death from prostate cancer (AV D'Amico et al., Jama 280: 969
974 (1998); M Han et al., Urol Clin North Am 28: 555-565 (2001); WU Shipley et al., Jama
                                                 I

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
281: 1598-1604 (1999); AJ Stephenson et al., J Clin Oncol 27: 4300-4305 (2009)), however
estimates of the number of men that must be treated to prevent one death from prostate cancer
range from 12 to 100. A Bill-Axelson et al., JNatl Cancer Inst 100: 1144-1154 (2008); J
Hugosson et aL, Lancet Oncol 11: 725-732 (2010); LH Klotz et al., Can J Urol 13 Suppl 1:
48-55 (2006); S Loeb et al, J Clin Oncol 29: 464-467 (2011); FH Schroder et al, N Engl J
Med 360: 1320-1328 (2009). This over-treatment of prostate cancer comes at a cost of
money and toxicity. For example, the majority of men who undergo radical prostatectomy
suffer incontinence and impotence as a result of the procedure (MS Litwin et al., Cancer 109:
2239-2247 (2007); MG Sanda et al, N Eng JMed 358: 1250-1261 (2008), and as many as
25% of men regret their choice of treatment for prostate cancer. FR Schroeck et al. Eur Urol
54: 785-793 (2008),
[0005] One of the reasons for the over-treatment of prostate cancer is the lack of adequate
prognostic tools to distinguish men who need immediate definitive therapy from those who
are appropriate candidates to defer immediate therapy and undergo active surveillance
instead. For example, of men who appear to have low-risk disease based on the results of
clinical staging, pre-treatment PSA, and biopsy Gleason score, and have been managed with
active surveillance on protocols, 30-40 % experience disease progression (diagnosed by
rising PSA, an increased Gleason score on repeat biopsy, or clinical progression) over the
first few years of follow-up, and some of them may have lost the opportunity for curative
therapy. HB Carter et al.,,J Urol 178: 2359-2364 and discussion 2364-2355 (2007); MA
 Dall'Era et al., Cancer 112: 2664-2670 (2008); L Klotz et al., J Clin Oncol 28: 126-131
 (2010). Also, of men who appear to be candidates for active surveillance, but who undergo
 immediate prostatectomy anyway, 30-40% are found at surgery to have higher risk disease
than expected as defined by having high-grade (Gleason score of 3+4 or higher) or non
 organ-confined disease (extracapsular extension (ECE) or seminal vesicle involvement
 (SVI)). SL et al., J Uro 181: 1628-1633 and discussion 1633-1624 (2009); CR Griffin et al.,
J Urol 178: 860-863 (2007); PW Mufarrij et al., J Urol 181: 607-608 (2009),
 [0006] Estimates of recurrence risk and treatment decisions in prostate cancer are currently
 based primarily on PSA levels and/or clinical tumor stage. Although clinical tumor stage has
 been demonstrated to have a significant association with outcome, sufficient to be included in
 pathology reports, the College of American Pathologists Consensus Statement noted that
 variations in approach to the acquisition, interpretation, reporting, and analysis of this
 information exist, C. Compton, et al,, Arch Pathol Lab Med 124:979-992 (2000). As a
                                                  2

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
consequence, existing pathologic staging methods have been criticized as lacking
reproducibility and therefore may provide imprecise estimates of individual patient risk,
                                           SUMMARY
[0007] This application discloses molecular assays that involve measurement of expression
level(s) of one or more genes or gene subsets from a biological sample obtained from a
prostate cancer patient, and analysis of the measured expression levels to provide information
concerning the likelihood of a clinical outcome. For example, the likelihood of a clinical
outcome may be described in terms of a quantitative score based on clinical or biochemical
recurrence-free interval, overall survival, prostate cancer-specific survival,
upstaging/upgrading from biopsy to radical prostatectomy, or presence of high grade or non
organ confined disease at radical prostatectomy.
 [0008] In addition, this application discloses molecular assays that involve measurement of
expression level(s) of one or more genes or gene subsets from a biological sample obtained to
identify a risk classification for a prostate cancer patient, For example, patients may be
stratified using expression level(s) of one or more genes, positively or negatively, with
positive clinical outcome of prostate cancer, or with a prognostic factor, In an exemplary
embodiment, the prognostic factor is Gleason score.
 [00091 The present invention provides a method of predicting the likelihood of a clinical
 outcome for a patient with prostate cancer comprising determination of a level of one or more
RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, in a biological sample containing tumor
 cells obtained from the patient, wherein the RNA transcript, or its expression product, is
 selected from the 81 genes shown in Fig. I and listed in Tables 1A and 1B. The method
 comprises assigning the one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, to
 one or more gene groups selected from a cellular organization gene group, basal epithelia
 gene group, a stress response gene group, an androgen gene group, a stromal response gene
 group, and a proliferation gene group. The method further comprises calculating a
 quantitative score for the patient by weighting the level of the one or more RNA transcripts or
 an expression product thereof, by their contribution to a clinical outcome and predicting the
 likelihood of a clinical outcome for the patient based on the quantitative score, In an
 embodiment of the invention, an increase in the quantitative score correlates with an
 increased likelihood of a negative clinical outcome.
 [00101 In a particular embodiment, the one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression
 product thereof, is selected from BINt, IGF1, C7, GSN, DES, TGFB 1II, TPM2, VCL,

 WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
FLNC, ITGA7, COL6Al, PPP!R12A, GSTM1, GSTM2, PAGE4, PPAP2B, SRD5A2.
PRKCA. IGFBP6, GPM6B, OLFML3, HLF, CYP3A5, KRT15, KRT5, LA1B3, SDCI,
DUSPI, EGFR!, FOS, JUN, EGR3, GADD45B, ZFP36, FAM13C. KLK2, ASPN, SFRP4,
BGN, THBS2, INHBA, COLIA1, COL3AI, COLIA2, SPARC, COL8A1, COL4A1, FN!,
FAP, COL5A2, CDC20, TPX2, UBE2T, MYBL2, and CDKN2C. BIN1, IGFl, C7, GSN,
DES, TGFBlII, TPM2, VCL, FLNC, ITGA7, COL6AI, PPPiR12A, GSTM!, GSTM2,
PAGE4, PPAP2B, SRD5A2, PRKCA, IGFBP6, GPM6B, OLFML3, and HLF are assigned to
the cellular organization gene group. CYP3A5, KRT15, KRTS, LAMB3, and SDCI are
assigned to the basal epithelial gene group. DUSPI, EGFR!, FOS, JN-1, EGR3, GADD45B,
and ZFP36 are assigned to the stress response gene group. FAM13C, KLK2, AZGPi, and
SRD5A2 are assigned to the androgen gene group. ASPN, SFRP4, BGN, THBS2, INHBA,
COLIA1, COL3AI, COL IA2, SPARC, COL8A1, COLAI, FNI, FAP and COLSA2 are
assigned to the stromal response gene group. CDC20, TPX2, UBE2T, MYBL2, and
CDKN2C are assigned to the proliferation gene group. The method may further comprise
determining the level of at least one RNA transcript, or an expression product thereof,
selected from STAT5B, NFAT5, AZGP1, ANPEP, IGFBP2, SLC22A3, ERG, AR, SRD5A2,
GSTM1, and GSTM2.
[0011] In an embodiment of the invention, the level of one or more RNA transcripts, or an
expression product thereof, from each of the stromal response gene group and the cellular
organization gene group are determined. In another embodiment, the level of one or more
RNA transcripts, or expression products thereof, from each of the stromal response gene
group and PSA gene group are determined. Additionally, the level of one or more RNA
transcripts, or expression products thereof, from the cellular organization gene group and/or
proliferation gene group may be determined. In this embodiment, gene(s) to be assayed from
the stromal response gene group may be selected from ASPN, BGN, COL I A1, SPARC, FN1,
COL3AI, COL4A!, INHBA, THBS2, and SFRP4; gene(s) to be assayed from the androgen
gene group may be selected from FAM13C and KLK2; gene(s) to be assayed from the
cellular organization gene group may be selected from FLNC, GSN, GSTM2, IGFBP6,
PPAP2B, PPPIR12A, BIN1, VCL, IGF, TPM2, C7, and GSTMI; and gene(s) to be assayed
from the proliferation gene group may be selected from TPX2, CDC20, and MYBL2.
[0012] In a particular embodiment, the RNA transcripts, or their expression products, are
selected from BGN, COLIA1, SFRP4, FLNC, GSN, TPM2, TPX2, FAMi3C, KLK2,
AZGP1, GSTM2, and SRD5A2. BGN, COLi Al, and SFRP4 are assigned to the stromal
response gene group; FLNC, GSN. and TPM2 are assigned to the cellular organization gene
                                                4

  WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
group; and FAM13C and KLK2 are assigned to the androgen gene group. The level of the
RNA transcripts, or their expression products, comprising at least one of the gene groups
selected from the stromal response gene group, cellular organization gene group, and
androgen gene group, may be determined for the method of the invention. In any of the
embodiments, the androgen gene group may further comprise AZGP1 and SRD5A2.
100131 In addition, the level of any one of the gene combinations show in Table 4 may be
determined. For instance, the RSO model in Table 4 comprises determining the levels of the
RNA transcripts, or gene expression products thereof, of ASPN, BGN, COLIAI, SPARC,
FLNC, GSN, GSTM2, IGFBP6, PPAP2B, PPPRI 12A, TPX2, CDC20, MYBIL2, FAM13C,
KLK2, STAT5B, and NFAT5. Furthermore, any one of the algorithms shown in Table 4
may be used to calculate the quantitative score for the patient.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
[0014] Figure I is a dendrogram depicting the association of the 81 genes selected from the
gene identification study.
[00151 Figures 2A-2E are scatter plots showing the comparison of normalized gene
expression (Cp) for matched samples from each patient where the x-axis is the gene
expression from the primary Gleason pattern RP sample (PGP) and the y-axis is the gene
expression from the biopsy (BX) sample. Fig. 2A: All ECM (stomal response) genes; Fig.
2B: All migration (cellular organization) genes; Fig. 2C: All proliferation genes; Fig. 2D:
PSA (androgen) genes; Fig. 2E: other genes from the 81 gene list that do not fall within any
of these four gene groups.
 10016] Figures 3A-3D are range plots of gene expression of individual genes within each
 gene group in the biopsy (BX) and PGP RP samples. Fig. 3A: All ECM (stromal response)
 genes; Fig. 3B: All migration (cellular organization) genes; Fig. 3C: All proliferation genes;
 Fig, 3D: other genes from the 81 gene list that do not fa I within any of the gene groups.
 [0017] Figure 4 is a schematic illustration of the clique-stack method used to identify co
 expressed genes.
 10018] Figure 5 shows examples of cliques and stacks. Fig. 5(a) is an example of a graph
 that is not a clique; Fig, 5(b) is an example of a clique; Fig. 5(c) is an example of a clique but
 is not a maximal clique.
 [00191 Figure 6 is a graph showing two maximal cliques: 1-2-3-4-5 and 1-2-3-4-6.
 [00201 Figure 7 schematically illustrates stacking of two maximal cliques.
                                                   5

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
[00211 Figure 8 is a graph showing that RS27 and CAPRA risk groups predict freedom from
high-grade or non-organ-confined disease,
100221 Figure 9 is a graph showing that RS27 and AUA risk groups predict freedom from
high-grade or non-organ-confined disease.
[0023] Figure 10 is a graph showing time to clinical recurrence of PTEN low and PTEN
normal patients from the gene identification study.
[0024] Figure 11 is a graph showing time to clinical recurrence of patients from the gene
identification study stratified into PTEN low/normal and TMPRSS-ERG negative/positive.
                                         DEFINITIONS
[0025] Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. Singleton et al., Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology 2nd ed., J,
Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 1994), and March, Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions,
Mechanisms and Structure 4th ed., John Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 1992). provide one
skilled in the art with a general guide to many of the terms used in the present application.
10026] One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent
to those described herein, which could be used in the practice of the present invention.
Indeed, the present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described
herein, For purposes of the invention, the following terms are defined below.
 [0027] The terms "tumor" and "lesion" as used herein, refer to all neoplastic cell growth and
proliferation, whether malignant or benign, and all pre-cancerous and cancerous cells and
tissues. Those skilled in the art will realize that a tumor tissue sample may comprise multiple
biological elements, such as one or more cancer cells, partial or fragmented cells, tumors in
various stages, surrounding histologically normal-appearing tissue, and/or macro or micro
dissected tissue.
 [0028] The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological condition in
mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer in
the present disclosure include cancer of the urogenital tract, such as prostate cancer.
 [0029] As used herein, the term "prostate cancer" is used in the broadest sense and refers to
all stages and all forms of cancer arising from the tissue of the prostate gland.
 [0030] Staging of the cancer assists a physician in assessing how far the disease has
progressed and to plan a treatment for the patient. Staging may be done clinically (clinical
 staging) by physical examination, blood tests, or response to radiation therapy, and/or
                                                   6

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
pathologically (pathologic staging) based on surgery, such as radical prostatectomy.
According to the tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging system of the American Joint
Committee on Cancer (AJCC), AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (7th Ed., 2010), the various
stages of prostate cancer are defined as follows: Tumor: TI: clinically inapparent tumor not
palpable or visible by imaging, Ti a: tumor incidental histological finding in 5% or less of
tissue resected, '1b: tumor incidental histological finding in more than 5% of tissue resected,
Tic: tumor identified by needle biopsy; T2: tumor confined within prostate, T2a: tumor
involves one half of one lobe or less, T2b: tumor involves more than half of one lobe, but not
both lobes, T2c: tumor involves both lobes; T3: tumor extends through the prostatic capsule,
T3a: extracapsular extension (unilateral or bilateral), T3b: tumor invades seminal vesicle(s);
T4: tumor is fixed or invades adjacent structures other than seminal vesicles (bladder neck,
external sphincter, rectum, levator muscles, or pelvic wall). Generally, a clinical T (cT) stage
is TI or T2 and pathologic T (pT) stage is T2 or higher, Node: NO: no regional lymph node
metastasis; NI: metastasis in regional lymph nodes. Metastasis: MO: no distant metastasis;
MI: distant metastasis present.
 [0031] The Gleason Grading system is used to help evaluate the prognosis of men with
prostate cancer. Together with other parameters, it is incorporated into a strategy of prostate
 cancer staging, which predicts prognosis and helps guide therapy. A Gleason "score" or
 "grade" is given to prostate cancer based upon its microscopic appearance. Tumors with a
 low Gleason score typically grow slowly enough that they may not pose a significant threat to
 the patients in their lifetimes. These patients are monitored ("watchful waiting" or "active
 surveillance") over time. Cancers with a higher Gleason score are more aggressive and have a
 worse prognosis, and these patients are generally treated with surgery (e.g., radical
 prostatectomy) and, in some cases, therapy (eg., radiation, hormone, ultrasound,
 chemotherapy), Gleason scores (or sums) comprise grades of the two most common tumor
 patterns. These patterns are referred to as Gleason patterns 1-5, with pattern I being the most
 well-differentiated. Most have a mixture of patterns. To obtain a Gleason score or grade, the
 dominant pattern is added to the second most prevalent pattern to obtain a number between 2
 andlO. The Gleason Grades include: G: well differentiated (slight anaplasia) (Gleason 2-4);
 G2: moderately differentiated (moderate anaplasia) (Gleason 5-6); G3-4: poorly
 differentiated/undifferentiated (marked anaplasia) (Gleason 7-10),
  {0032] Stage groupings: Stage I: Tla NO MO Gl; Stage II: (Tla NO Mf G2-4) or (Tlb, c, T1,
 T2, NO MO Any G); Stage III: T3 NO MO Any G; Stage IV: (T4 NO MO Any G) or (Any T NI
 MO Any G) or (Any T Any N M1 Any G).
                                                   7

  WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
10033] The term "upgrading" as used herein refers to an increase in Gleason grade
determined from biopsy to Gleason grade determined from radical prostatectomy (RP). For
example, upgrading includes a change in Gleason grade from 3+3 or 3+4 on biopsy to 3+4 or
greater on RP. "Significant upgrading" or "upgrade2" as used herein, refers to a change in
Gleason grade from 3+3 or 3+4 determined from biopsy to 4+3 or greater, or seminal vessical
involvement (SVI), or extracapsular involvement (ECE) as determined from RP.
[0034] The term "high grade" as used herein refers to Gleason score of >=3-4 or >=:4+3 on
RI?. The term "low grade" as used herein refers to a Gleason score of 3+3 on RP, In a
particular embodiment, "high grade" disease refers to Gleason score of at least major pattern
4, minor pattern 5, or tertiary pattern 5.
[0035] The term "upstaging" as used herein refers to an increase in tumor stage from biopsy
to tumor stage at RP. For example, upstaging is a change in tumor stage from clinical Ti or
T2 stage at biopsy to pathologic T3 stage at RP,
[0036] The term "non organ-confined disease" as used herein refers to having pathologic
stage T3 disease at RP, The term "organ-confined" as used herein refers to pathologic stage
pT2 at RP.
 [0037] The term "adverse pathology" as used herein refers to a high grade disease as defined
above, or non organ-confined disease as defined above. In a particular embodiment, "adverse
pathology" refers to prostate cancer with a Gleason score of >=3+4 or >=4+3 or pathologic
stage T3.
 [0038] In another embodiment, the term "high-grade or non-organ-confined disease" refers to
prostate cancer with a Gleason score of at least major pattern 4, minor pattern 5, or tertiary
pattern 5, or pathologic stage T3,
 [0039] As used herein, the terms "active surveillance" and "watchful waiting" mean closely
monitoring a patient's condition without giving any treatment until symptoms appear or
 change. For example, in prostate cancer, watchful waiting is usually used in older men with
 other medical problems and early-stage disease.
 [0040] As used herein, the term "surgery" applies to surgical methods undertaken for
 removal of cancerous tissue, including pelvic lymphadenectomy, radical prostatectomy,
transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), excision, dissection, and tumor
 biopsy/removal, The tumor tissue or sections used for gene expression analysis may have
 been obtained from any of these methods,
 [00411 As used herein, the term "biological sample containing cancer cells" refers to a
 sample comprising tumor material obtained from a cancer patient. The term encompasses
                                                8

  WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
tumor tissue samples, for example, tissue obtained by radical prostatectomy and tissue
obtained by biopsy, such as for example, a core biopsy or a fine needle biopsy. The
biological sample may be fresh, frozen, or a fixed, wax-embedded tissue sample, such as a
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sample. A biological sample also encompasses
bodily fluids containing cancer cells, such as blood, plasma, serum, urine, and the like.
Additionally, the term "biological sample containing cancer cells" encompasses a sample
comprising tumor cells obtained from sites other than the primary tumor, e.g., circulating
tumor cells. The term also encompasses cells that are the progeny of the patient's tumor
cells, e.g. cell culture samples derived from primary tumor cells or circulating tumor cells.
The term further encompasses samples that may comprise protein or nucleic acid material
 shed from tumor cells in vivo, e.g., bone marrow, blood, plasma, serum, and the like. The
 term also encompasses samples that have been enriched for tumor cells or otherwise
 manipulated after their procurement and samples comprising polynucleotides and/or
 polypeptides that are obtained from a patient's tumor material,
 [00421 Prognostic factors are those variables related to the natural history of cancer that
 influence the recurrence rates and outcome of patients once they have developed cancer.
 Clinical parameters that have been associated with a worse prognosis include, for example,
 increased tumor stage, high PSA level at presentation, and high Gleason grade or pattern.
 Prognostic factors are frequently used to categorize patients into subgroups with different
 baseline relapse risks.
 [0043] The term "prognosis" is used herein to refer to the likelihood that a cancer patient will
 have a cancer-attributable death or progression, including recurrence, metastatic spread, and
 drug resistance, of a neoplastic disease, such as prostate cancer. For example, a "good
 prognosis" would include long term survival without recurrence and a "bad prognosis" would
 include cancer recurrence.
  100441 A "positive clinical outcome" can be assessed using any endpoint indicating a benefit
 to the patient, including, without limitation, (1) inhibition, to some extent, of tumor growth,
 including slowing down and complete growth arrest; (2) reduction in the number of tumor
 cells; (3) reduction in tumor size; (4) inhibition (i.e., reduction, slowing down, or complete
  stopping) of tumor cell infiltration into adjacent peripheral organs and/or tissues; (5)
  inhibition of metastasis; (6) enhancement of anti-tumor immune response, possibly resulting
  in regression or rejection of the tumor; (7) relief, to some extent, of one or more symptoms
  associated with the tumor; (8) increase in the duration of survival following treatment; and/or
  (9) decreased mortality at a given point of time following treatment. Positive clinical
                                                    9

  WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
outcome can also be considered in the context of an individual's outcome relative to an
outcome of a population of patients having a comparable clinical diagnosis, and can be
assessed using various endpoints such as an increase in the duration of Recurrence-Free
Interval (RFI), an increase in survival time (Overall Survival (OS)) or prostate cancer
specific survival time (Prostate Cancer-Specific Survival (PCSS)) in a population, no
upstaging or upgrading in tumor stage or Gleason grade between biopsy and radical
prostatectomy, presence of 3+3 grade and organ-confined disease at radical prostatectomy,
and the like.
 100451 The term "risk classification" means a grouping of subjects by the level of risk (or
likelihood) that the subject will experience a particular negative clinical outcome, A subject
may be classified into a risk group or classified at a level of risk based on the methods of the
present disclosure, e.g, high, medium, or low risk. A "risk group" is a group of subjects or
individuals with a similar level of risk for a particular clinical outcome.
 10046] The term "long-term" survival is used herein to refer to survival for a particular time
period, e.g., for at least 5 years, or for at least 10 years,
 [0047] The term "recurrence" is used herein to refer to local or distant recurrence (i.e.,
 metastasis) of cancer. For example, prostate cancer can recur locally in the tissue next to the
 prostate or in the seminal vesicles. The cancer may also affect the surrounding lymph nodes
 in the pelvis or lymph nodes outside this area. Prostate cancer can also spread to tissues next
 to the prostate, such as pelvic muscles, bones, or other organs. Recurrence can be determined
 by clinical recurrence detected by, for example, imaging study or biopsy, or biochemical
 recurrence detected by, for example, sustained follow-up prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
 levels > 0.4 ng/mL or the initiation of salvage therapy as a result of a rising PSA level,
 [0048] The term "clinical recurrence-free interval (cRFI)" is used herein as time from surgery
 to first clinical recurrence or death due to clinical recurrence of prostate cancer. If follow-up
 ended without occurrence of clinical recurrence, or other primary cancers or death occurred
 prior to clinical recurrence, time to cRFI is considered censored; when this occurs, the only
 information known is that up through the censoring time, clinical recurrence has not occurred
 in this subject. Biochemical recurrences are ignored for the purposes of calculating cRFL
  [0049] The term "biochemical recurrence-free interval (bRFI)" is used herein to mean the
 time from surgery to first biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer. If clinical recurrence
 occurred before biochemical recurrence, follow-up ended without occurrence of bRFI, or
 other primary cancers or death occurred prior to biochemical recurrence, time to biochemical
 recurrence is considered censored at the first of these,
                                                    10

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
[0050] The term "Overall Survival (OS)" is used herein to refer to the time from surgery to
death from any cause, If the subject was still alive at the time of last follow-up, survival time
is considered censored at the time of last follow-up. Biochemical recurrence and clinical
recurrence are ignored for the purposes of calculating OS.
[0051] The term "Prostate Cancer-Specific Survival (PCSS)" is used herein to describe the
time from surgery to death from prostate cancer, If the patient did not die of prostate cancer
before end of followup, or died due to other causes, PCSS is considered censored at this
time. Clinical recurrence and biochemical recurrence are ignored for the purposes of
calculating PCSS,
[0052] In practice, the calculation of the time-to-event measures listed above may vary from
study to study depending on the definition of events to be considered censored,
[00531 As used herein, the term "expression level" as applied to a gene refers to the
normalized level of a gene product, e.g. the normalized value determined for the RNA level
of a gene or for the polypeptide level of a gene.
 [0054] The term "gene product" or "expression product" are used herein to refer to the RNA
(ribonucleic acid) transcription products (transcripts) of the gene, including mRNA, and the
polypeptide translation products of such RNA transcripts. A gene product can be, for
example, an unspliced RNA, an mRNA, a splice variant mRNA, a microRNA. a fragmented
RNA, a polypeptide, a post-translationally modified polypeptide, a splice variant polypeptide,
etc.
 [0055] The term "RNA transcript" as used herein refers to the RNA transcription products of
a gene, including, for example, iRNA, an unspliced RNA, a splice variant mRNA, a
microRNA, and a fragmented RNA.
 [00561 Unless indicated otherwise, each gene name used herein corresponds to the Official
 Symbol assigned to the gene and provided by Entrez Gene (URL: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
 sites/entrez) as of the filing date of this application.
 10057] The term "microarray" refers to an ordered arrangement of hybridizable array
 elements, e.g. oligonucleotide or polynucleotide probes, on a substrate.
 [0058! The term "polynucleotide" generally refers to any polyribonucleotide or
 polydeoxribonucleotide, which may be unmodified RNA or DNA or modified RNA or DNA.
 Thus, for instance, polynucleotides as defined herein include, without limitation, single- and
 double-stranded DNA, DNA including single- and double-stranded regions, single- and
 double-stranded RNA, and RNA including single- and double-stranded regions, hybrid
 molecules comprising DNA and RNA that may be single-stranded or, more typically, double
                                                    11

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
stranded or include single- and double-stranded regions. In addition, the term
"polynucleotide" as used herein refers to triple-stranded regions comprising RNA or DNA or
both RNA and DNA, The strands in such regions may be from the same molecule or from
different molecules. The regions may include all of one or more of the molecules, but more
typically involve only a region of some of the molecules. One of the molecules of a triple
helical region often is an oligonucleotide. The term "polynucleotide" specifically includes
cDNAs. The term includes DNAs (including cDNAs) and RNAs that contain one or more
modified bases. Thus, DNAs or RNAs with backbones modified for stability or for other
reasons, are "polynucleotides" as that term is intended herein. Moreover, DNAs or RNAs
comprising unusual bases, such as inosine, or modified bases, such as tritiated bases, are
included within the term "polynucleotides" as defined herein. In general, the term
"polynucleotide" embraces all chemically, enzymatically and/or metabolically modified
forms of unmodified polynucleotides, as well as the chemical forms of DNA and RNA
characteristic of viruses and cells, including simple and complex cells.
 [0059] The term "oligonucleotide" refers to a relatively short polynucleotide, including,
without limitation, single-stranded deoxyribonucleotides, single- or double-stranded
ribonucleotides, RNArDNA hybrids and double-stranded DNAs. Oligonucleotides, such as
 single-stranded DNA probe oligonucleotides, are often synthesized by chemical methods, for
 example using automated oligonucleotide synthesizers that are commercially available.
 However, oligonucleotides can be made by a variety of other methods, including in vitro
 recombinant DNA-mediated techniques and by expression of DNAs in cells and organisms.
 100601 The term "Ct" as used herein refers to threshold cycle, the cycle number in
 quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) at which the fluorescence generated within a
 reaction well exceeds the defined threshold, i.e. the point during the reaction at which a
 sufficient number of amplicons have accumulated to meet the defined threshold.
 [00611 The term "Cp" as used herein refers to "crossing point." The Cp value is calculated by
 determining the second derivatives of entire qPCR amplification curves and their maximum
 value. The Cp value represents the cycle at which the increase of fluorescence is highest and
 where the logarithmic phase of a PCR begins.
  [0062] The terms "threshold" or "thresholding" refer to a procedure used to account for non
  linear relationships between gene expression measurements and clinical response as well as
 to further reduce variation in reported patient scores. When thresholding is applied, all
  measurements below or above a threshold are set to that threshold value. A non-linear
 relationship between gene expression and outcome could be examined using smoothers or
                                                 12

  WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
cubic splines to model gene expression on recurrence free interval using Cox PH regression
or on adverse pathology status using logistic regression. D. Cox, Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society, Series B 34:187-220 (1972). Variation in reported patient scores could be
examined as a function of variability in gene expression at the limit of quantitation and/or
detection for a particular gene.
100631 As used herein, the term "amplicon," refers to pieces of DNA that have been
synthesized using amplification techniques, such as polymerase chain reactions (PCR) and
ligase chain reactions,
[00641 "Stringency" of hybridization reactions is readily determinable by one of ordinary
skill in the art, and generally is an empirical calculation dependent upon probe length,
washing temperature, and salt concentration. In general, longer probes require higher
temperatures for proper annealing, while shorter probes need lower temperatures.
Hybridization generally depends on the ability of denatured DNA to re-anneal when
complementary strands are present in an environment below their melting temperature. The
higher the degree of desired homology between the probe and hybridizable sequence, the
higher the relative temperature which can be used. As a result, it follows that higher relative
temperatures would tend to make the reaction conditions more stringent, while lower
temperatures less so. For additional details and explanation of stringency of hybridization
reactions, see Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (Wiley Interscience
Publishers, 1995).
 [00651 "Stringent conditions" or "high stringency conditions", as defined herein, typically:
(1) employ low ionic strength and high temperature for washing, for example 0.015 M
sodium chloride/0.0015 M sodium citrate/0.1% sodium dodecyl sulfate at 50*C; (2) employ
during hybridization a denaturing agent, such as formamide, for example, 50% (v/v)
formamide with 0.1% bovine serum albumin/0.1% Ficoll/0.1% polyvinylpyrrolidone/50mM
sodium phosphate buffer at pH 6.5 with 750 mM sodium chloride, 75 mM sodium citrate at
42'C; or (3) employ 50% formamide, 5 x SSC (0.75 M NaCl, 0.075 M sodium citrate), 50
 mM sodium phosphate (pH 6.8), 0,1% sodium pyrophosphate, 5 x Denhardt's solution,
 sonicated salmon sperm DNA (50 pg/ml), 0.1% SDS, and 10% dextran sulfate at 42*C, with
washes at 420 C in 0.2 x SSC (sodium chloride/sodium citrate) and 50% formamide, followed
 by a high-stringency wash consisting of 0.1 x SSC containing EDTA at 55*C.
 [0066] "Moderately stringent conditions" may be identified as described by Sambrook et al.,
 Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, New York: Cold Spring Harbor Press, 1989, and
 include the use of washing solution and hybridization conditions (e.g., temperature, ionic
                                                  13

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
strength and %SDS) less stringent that those described above. An example of moderately
stringent conditions is overnight incubation at 370 C in a solution comprising: 20%
formamide, 5 x SSC (150 mM NaCI, 15 mM trisodium citrate), 50 mM sodium phosphate
(pH 7.6), 5 x Denhardt's solution, 10% dextran sulfate, and 20 mg/ml denatured sheared
salmon sperm DNA, followed by washing the filters in I x SSC at about 37-500C. The
skilled artisan will recognize how to adjust the temperature, ionic strength, etc. as necessary
to accommodate factors such as probe length and the like.
[0067] The terms "splicing" and "RNA splicing" are used interchangeably and refer to RNA
processing that removes introns and joins exons to produce mature mRNA with continuous
coding sequence that moves into the cytoplasm of an eukaryotic cell.
[0068] As used herein, the term "TMPRSS fusion" and "TMPRSS2 fusion" are used
interchangeably and refer to a fusion of the androgen-driven TMPRSS2 gene with the ERG
oncogene, which has been demonstrated to have a significant association with prostate
cancer. S. Perner, et al., Urologe A. 46(7):754-760 (2007); S.A. Narod, et al., Br J Cancer
99(6):847-851 (2008). As used herein, positive TMPRSS fusion status indicates that the
TMPRSS fusion is present in a tissue sample, whereas negative TMPRSS fusion status
indicates that the TMPRSS fusion is not present in a tissue sample. Experts skilled in the art
will recognize that there are numerous ways to determine TMPRSS fusion status, such as
real-time, quantitative PCR or high-throughput sequencing. See, e.g., K. Mertz, et al.,
Neoplasis 9(3):200-206 (2007); C. Maher, Nature 458(7234):97-101 (2009).
 [0069] The terms "correlated" and "associated" are used interchangeably herein to refer to
 the association between two measurements (or measured entities). The disclosure provides
 genes or gene subsets, the expression levels of which are associated with clinical outcome,
 For example, the increased expression level of a gene may be positively correlated (positively
 associated) with a good or positive clinical outcome. Such a positive correlation may be
 demonstrated statistically in various ways, e.g. by a cancer recurrence hazard ratio less than
 one or by a cancer upgrading or upstaging odds ratio of less than one. In another example, the
 increased expression level of a gene may be negatively correlated (negatively associated)
 with a good or positive clinical outcome. In that case, for example, the patient may
 experience a cancer recurrence or upgrading/upstaging of the cancer, and this may be
 demonstrated statistically in various ways, e.g., a hazard ratio greater than lor an odds ratio
 greater than one. "Correlation" is also used herein to refer to the strength of association
 between the expression levels of two different genes, such that the expression level of a first
  aene can be substituted with an expression level of a second gene in a given algorithm if their
                                                 I4

 WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
expression levels are highly correlated. Such "correlated expression" of two genes that are
substitutable in an algorithm are usually gene expression levels that are positively correlated
with one another, e.g., if increased expression of a first gene is positively correlated with an
outcome (e.g., increased likelihood of good clinical outcome), then the second gene that is
co-expressed and exhibits correlated expression with the first gene is also positively
correlated with the same outcome.
[00701 The terms "co-express" and "co-expressed", as used herein, refer to a statistical
correlation between the amounts of different transcript sequences across a population of
different patients. Pairwise co-expression may be calculated by various methods known in the
art, e~g., by calculating Pearson correlation coefficients or Spearman correlation coefficients.
Co-expressed gene cliques may also be identified by seeding and stacking the maximal clique
enumeration (MCE) described in Example 4 herein. An analysis of co-expression may be
calculated using normalized expression data. Genes within the same gene subset are also
considered to be co-expressed.
[0071] A "computer-based system" refers to a system of hardware, software, and data storage
medium used to analyze information. The minimum hardware of a patient computer-based
system comprises a central processing unit (CPU), and hardware for data input, data output
(e.g., display), and data storage. An ordinarily skilled artisan can readily appreciate that any
currently available computer-based systems and/or components thereof are suitable for use in
connection with the methods of the present disclosure, The data storage medium may
comprise any manufacture comprising a recording of the present information as described
above, or a memory access device that can access such a manufacture.
[0072] To "record" data, programming or other information on a computer readable medium
refers to a process for storing information, using any such methods as known in the art. Any
convenient data storage structure may be chosen, based on the means used to access the
stored information. A variety of data processor programs and formats can be used for storage,
e.g. word processing text file, database format, etc.
[0073] A "processor" or "computing means" references any hardware and/or software
combination that will perform the functions required of it. For example, a suitable processor
may be a programmable digital microprocessor such as available in the form of an electronic
controller, mainframe, server or personal computer (desktop or portable). Where the
processor is programmable, suitable programming can be communicated from a remote
location to the processor, or previously saved in a computer program product (such as a
portable or fixed computer readable storage medium, whether magnetic, optical or solid state
                                                15

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
device based). For example, a magnetic medium or optical disk may carry the programming,
and can be read by a suitable reader communicating with each processor at its corresponding
station.
ALGORITHM-BASED METHODS AND GENE SUBSETS
[0074] The present invention provides an algorithm-based molecular diagnostic assay for
predicting a clinical outcome for a patient with prostate cancer. The expression level of one
or more genes may be used alone or arranged into functional gene subsets to calculate a
quantitative score that can be used to predict the likelihood of a clinical outcome. The
algorithm-based assay and associated information provided by the practice of the methods of
the present invention facilitate optimal treatment decision-making in prostate cancer. For
example, such a clinical tool would enable physicians to identify patients who have a low
likelihood of having an aggressive cancer and therefore would not need RP, or who have a
high likelihood of having an aggressive cancer and therefore would need RP.
[0075] As used herein, a "quantitative score" is an arithmetically or mathematically
calculated numerical value for aiding in simplifying or disclosing or informing the analysis of
more complex quantitative information, such as the correlation of certain expression levels of
the disclosed genes or gene subsets to a likelihood of a clinical outcome of a prostate cancer
patient. A quantitative score may be determined by the application of a specific algorithm.
The algorithm used to calculate the quantitative score in the methods disclosed herein may
group the expression level values of genes. The grouping of genes may be performed at least
 in part based on knowledge of the relative contribution of the genes according to physiologic
 functions or component cellular characteristics, such as in the groups discussed herein. A
 quantitative score may be determined for a gene group ("gene group score"). The formation
 of groups, in addition, can facilitate the mathematical weighting of the contribution of various
 expression levels of genes or gene subsets to the quantitative score. The weighting of a gene
 or gene group representing a physiological process or component cellular characteristic can
 reflect the contribution of that process or characteristic to the pathology of the cancer and
 clinical outcome, such as recurrence or upgrading/upstaging of the cancer. The present
 invention provides a number of algorithms for calculating the quantitative scores, for
 example, as set forth in Table 4. In an embodiment of the invention, an increase in the
 quantitative score indicates an increased likelihood of a negative clinical outcome.
  [0076] In an embodiment, a quantitative score is a "recurrence score," which indicates the
 likelihood of a cancer recurrence, upgrading or upstaging of a cancer, adverse pathology,
 non-organ-confined disease, high-grade disease, and/or highgrade or non-organ-confined
                                                 t6

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
disease. An increase in the recurrence score may correlate with an increase in the likelihood
of cancer recurrence, upgrading or upstaging of a cancer, adverse pathology, non-organ
confined disease, high-grade disease, and/or highgrade or non-organ-confined disease.
[0077] The gene subsets of the present invention include an ECM gene group, migration gene
group, androgen gene group, proliferation gene group, epithelia gene group, and stress gene
group,
10078] The gene subsets referred to herein as the "ECM gene group," "stromal gene group,"
and "stromal response gene group" are used interchangeably and include genes that are
synthesized predominantly by stromal cells and are involved in stromal response and genes
that co-express with the genes of the ECM gene group. "Stromal cells" are referred to herein
as connective tissue cells that make up the support structure of biological tissues. Stromal
cells include fibroblasts, immune cells, pericytes, endothelial cells, and inflammatory cells.
"Stromal response" refers to a desmoplastic response of the host tissues at the site of a
primary tumor or invasion. See, e.g., E. Rubin, J. Farber, Pathlogy, 985-986 (end Ed. 1994).
The ECM gene group includes, for example, ASPN, SFRP4, BGN, THBS2, INHIBA,
COLIAI, COL3AI, COLIA2, SPARC, COL8AI, COL4AI, FNI, FAP, and COL5A2, and
co-expressed genes thereof Exemplary co-expressed genes include the genes and/or gene
cliques shown in Table 8.
 [0079] The gene subsets referred to herein as the "migration gene group" or "migration
regulation gene group" or "cytoskeletal gene group" or "cellular organization gene group" are
used interchangeably and include genes and co-expressed genes that are part of a dynamic
microfilament network of actin and accessory proteins and that provide intracellular support
to cells, generate the physical forces for cell movement and cell division, as well as facilitate
 intracellular transport of vesicles and cellular organelle. The migration gene group includes,
 for example, BINI, IGFI, C7, GSN, DES, TGFBII, TPM2, VCL, FLNC, ITGA7. COL6Al,
PPPIR12A, GSTMi, GSTM2. PAGE4, PPAP2B, SRD5A2, PRKCA, IGFBP6, GPM6B,
 OLFML3, and HLF, and co-expressed genes thereof. Exemplary co-expressed genes and/or
 gene cliques are provided in Table 9.
 [0080] The gene subset referred to herein as the "androgen gene group," "PSA gene group,"
 and "PSA regulation gene group" are used interchangeably and include genes that are
 members of the kallikrein family of serine proteases (e.g. kallikrein 3 [PSA]), and genes that
 co-express with genes of the androgen gene group. The androgen gene group includes, for
 example, FAM13C and KLK2, and co-expressed genes thereof. The androgen gene group
 may further comprise AZGPI and SRD5A2, and co-expressed genes thereof.
                                                  17

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
[0081] The gene subsets referred to herein as the "proliferation gene group" and "cell cycle
gene group" are used interchangeably and include genes that are involved with cell cycle
functions and genes that co-express with genes of the proliferation gene group. "Cell cycle
functions" as used herein refers to cell proliferation and cell cycle control, e.g.,
checkpoint/G1 to S phase transition. The proliferation gene group thus includes, for example,
CDC20, TPX2, UBE2T, MYBL2, and CDKN2C, and co-expressed genes thereof.
Exemplary co-expressed genes and/or gene cliques are provided in Table 10.
[0082] The gene subsets referred to herein as the "epithelia gene group" and "basal epithelia
gene group" are used interchangeably and include genes that are expressed during the
differentiation of a polarized epithelium and that provide intracellular structural integrity to
facilitate physical interactions with neighboring epithelial cells, and genes that co-express
with genes of the epithelia gene group. The epithelia gene group includes, for example,
CYP3A5, KRT15, KRT5, LAMB3, and SDCl and co-expressed genes thereof.
 10083] The gene subset referred to herein as the "stress gene group," "stress response gene
 group," and "early response gene group" are used interchangeably and includes genes and co
 expressed genes that are transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins activated rapidly and
transiently in response to cellular stress and other extracellular signals. These factors, in turn,
 regulate the transcription of a diverse range of genes. The stress gene group includes, for
 example, DUSPI, EGRI, FOS, JUN, EGR3, GADD45B, and ZFP36, and co-expressed genes
 thereof. Exemplary co-expressed genes and/or gene cliques are provided in Table 11.
 [0084] Expression levels of other genes and their co-expressed genes may be used with one
 more of the above gene subsets to predict a likelihood of a clinical outcome of a prostate
 cancer patient. For example, the expression level of one or more genes selected from the 81
 genes of Figure 1 or Table IA or lB that do not fall within any of the disclosed gene subsets
 may be used with one or more of the disclosed gene subsets. In an embodiment of the
 invention, one or more of STAT5B, NFAT5, AZGPI, ANPEP, IGFBP2, SLC22A3, ERG,
 AR, SRD5A2, GSTMI, and GSTM2 may be used in one or more gene subsets described
 above to predict a likelihood of a clinical outcome.
  [00851 The present invention also provides methods to determine a threshold expression level
  for a particular gene. A threshold expression level may be calculated for a specific gene, A
 threshold expression level for a gene may be based on a normalized expression level. In one
  example, a Cpthreshold expression level may be calculated by assessing functional forms
  using logistic regression or Cox proportional hazards regression.
                                                  18

 WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
[0086] The present invention further provides methods to determine genes that co-express
with particular genes identified by, e.g., quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), as validated
biomarkers relevant to a particular type of cancer. The co-expressed genes are themselves
useful biomarkers. The co-expressed genes may be substituted for the genes with which they
co-express. The methods can include identifying gene cliques from mnicroarray data,
normalizing the microarray data, computing a pairwise Spearman correlation matrix for the
array probes, filtering out significant co-expressed probes across different studies, building a
graph, mapping the probe to genes, and generating a gene clique report. An exemplary
method for identifying co-expressed genes is described in Example 3 below, and co
expressed genes identified using this method are provided in Tables 8-11. The expression
levels of one or more genes of a gene clique may be used to calculate the likelihood that a
patient with prostate cancer will experience a positive clinical outcome, such as a reduced
likelihood of a cancer recurrence.
[0087] Any one or more combinations of gene groups may be assayed in the method of the
present invention. For example, a stromal response gene group may be assayed, alone or in
combination, with a cellular organization gene group, a proliferation gene group, and/or an
androgen gene group. In addition, any number of genes within each gene group may be
assayed,
[0088] In a specific embodiment of the invention, a method for predicting a clinical outcome
for a patient with prostate cancer comprises measuring an expression level of at least one
gene from a stromal response gene group, or a co-expressed gene thereof, and at least one
gene from a cellular organization gene group, or a co-expressed gene thereof In another
embodiment, the expression level of at least two genes from a stromal response gene group,
or a co-expressed gene thereof, and at least two genes from a cellular organization gene
group, or a co-expressed gene thereof, are measured, In yet another embodiment, the
expression levels of at least three genes are measured from each of the stromal response gene
group and the cellular organization gene group. In a further embodiment, the expression
levels of at least four genes are measured from each of the stromal response gene group and
the cellular organization gene group. In another embodiment, the expression levels of at least
five genes are measured from each of the stromal response gene group and the cellular
organization gene group. In yet a further embodiment, the expression levels of at least six
genes are measured from each of the stromal response gene group and the cellular
organization gene group,
                                                 19

  WO 2013/116144                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
[0089] In another specific embodiment, the expression level of at least one gene from the
stromal response gene group, or a co-expressed gene thereof, may be measured in addition to
the expression level of at least one gene from an androgen gene group, or a co-expressed
gene thereof. In a particular embodiment, the expression levels of at least three genes, or co
expressed genes thereof, from the stromal response gene group, and the expression level of at
least one gene, or co-expressed gene thereof, from the androgen gene group may be
measured.
10090] In a further embodiment, the expression level of at least one gene each from the
stromal response gene group, the androgen gene group, and the cellular organization gene
group, or co-expressed genes thereof, may be measured. In a particular embodiment, the
level of at least three genes from the stromal resonse gene group, at least one gene from the
androgen gene group, and at least three genes from the cellular organization gene group may
be measured, In another embodiment, the expression level of at least one gene each from the
stromal response gene group, the androgen gene group, and the proliferation gene group, or
co-expressed genes thereof, may be measured. In a particular embodiment, the level of at
least three genes from the stromal response gene group, at least one gene from the androgen
gene group, and at least one gene from the proliferation gene group may be measured. In
either of these combinations, at least two genes from the androgen gene group may also be
measured. In any of the combinations, at least four genes from the androgen gene group may
also be measured.
 10091] In another embodiment, the expression level of at least one gene each from the
 stromal response gene group, the androgen gene group, the cellular organization gene group,
 and the proliferation gene group, or co-expressed genes thereof, may be measured. In a
 particular embodiment, the level of at least three genes from the stromal response gene group,
 at least three genes from the cellular organization gene group, at least one gene from the
 proliferation gene group, and at least two genes from the androgen gene group may be
 measured. In any of the embodiments, at least four genes from the androgen gene group may
 be measured.
 [0092] Additionally, expression levels of one or more genes that do not fall within the gene
 subsets described herein may be measured with any of the combinations of the gene subsets
 described herein. Alternatively, any gene that falls within a gene subset may be analyzed
 separately from the gene subset, or in another gene subset. For example, the expression
 levels of at least one, at least two, at least three, or at least 4 genes may be measured in
 addition to the gene subsets described herein. In an embodiment of the invention, the
                                                    20

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
additional gene(s) are selected from STAT5B, NFAT5, AZGPI, ANPEP, IGFBP2,
SLC22A3, ERG, AR, SRD5A2, GSTMI, and GSTM2&
[0093] In a specific embodiment, the method of the invention comprises measuring the
expression levels of the specific combinations of genes and gene subsets shown in Table 4.
In a further embodiment, gene group score(s) and quantitative score(s) are calculated
according to the algorithm(s) shown in 'Table 4.
[00941 Various technological approaches for determination of expression levels of the
disclosed genes are set forth in this specification, including, without limitation, RT-PCR,
microarrays, high-throughput sequencing, serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) and
Digital Gene Expression (DGE), which will be discussed in detail below, In particular
aspects, the expression level of each gene may be determined in relation to various features of
the expression products of the gene including exons, introns, protein epitopes and protein
activity.
[0095] The expression product that is assayed can be, for example, RNA or a polypeptide.
The expression product may be fragmented, For example, the assay may use primers that are
complementary to target sequences of an expression product and could thus measure full
transcripts as well as those fragmented expression products containing the target sequence.
Further information is provided in Table A.
 [00961 The RNA expression product may be assayed directly or by detection of a cDNA
product resulting from a PCR-based amplification method, eg., quantitative reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). (See e.g., US. Patent No. 7,587,279).
Polypeptide expression product may be assayed using immunohistochemistry (IHC) by
proteomics techniques. Further, both RNA and polypeptide expression products may also be
assayed using microarrays.
METHODS OF ASSAYING EXPRESSION LEVELS OF A GENE PRODUCT
 [0097] Methods of gene expression profiling include methods based on hybridization
 analysis of polynucleotides, methods based on sequencing of polynucleotides, and
 proteomics- based methods, Exemplary methods known in the art for the quantification of
 RNA expression in a sample include northern blotting and in situ hybridization (Parker &
 Barnes, Methods in Molecular Biology 106:247-283 (1999)); RNAse protection assays (Hod,
 Biotechniques 13:852-854 (1992)); and PCR-based methods, such as reverse transcription
 PCR (RT-PCR) (Weis et al., Trends in Genetics 8:263-264 (1992)). Antibodies may be
 employed that can recognize sequence-specific duplexes, including DNA duplexes, RNA
 duplexes, and DNA-RNA hybrid duplexes or DNA-protein duplexes. Representative methods
                                                 21

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
for sequencing-based gene expression analysis include Serial Analysis of Gene Expression
(SAGE), and gene expression analysis by massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS).
Other methods known in the art may be used.
         Reverse Transcription PCR (RT-PCR)
[0098] Typically, mRNA is isolated from a test sample. The starting material is typically
total RNA isolated from a human tumor, usually from a primary tumor. Optionally, normal
tissues from the same patient can be used as an internal control. Such normal tissue can be
histologically-appearing normal tissue adjacent to a tumor. mRNA can be extracted from a
tissue sample, e.g., from a sample that is fresh, frozen (e.g. fresh frozen), or paraffin
embedded and fixed (e.g. formalinlfixed).
[0099] General methods for mRNA extraction are well known in the art and are disclosed in
standard textbooks of molecular biology, including Ausubel et al., Current Protocols of
Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons (1997). Methods for RNA extraction from paraffin
embedded tissues are disclosed, for example, in Rupp and Locker, Lab Invest, 56:A67
(1987). and De Andrds et al., BioTechniques 18:42044 (1995). In particular, RNA isolation
can be performed using a purification kit, buffer set and protease from commercial
manufacturers, such as Qiagen, according to the manufacturer's instructions. For example,
total RNA from cells in culture can be isolated using Qiagen RNeasy mini-columns. Other
commercially available RNA isolation kits include MasterPureM Complete DNA and RNA
Purification Kit (EPICENTRE@, Madison, WI), and Paraffin Block RNA Isolation Kit
(Ambion, Inc.). Total RNA from tissue samples can be isolated using RNA Stat-60 (Tel
Test). RNA prepared from tumor can be isolated, for example, by cesium chloride density
gradient centrifugation.
 [00100] The sample containing the RNA is then subjected to reverse transcription to produce
 cDNA from the RNA template, followed by exponential amplification in a PCR reaction. The
two most commonly used reverse transcriptases are avilo myeloblastosis virus reverse
transcriptase (AMV-RT) and Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase (MMldLV
 RT). The reverse transcription step is typically primed using specific primers, random
 hexamers, or oligo-dT primers, depending on the circumstances and the goal of expression
 profiling, For example, extracted RNA can be reverse-transcribed using a GeneAmp RNA
 PCR kit (Perkin Elmer, CA, USA), following the manufacturer's instructions. The derived
 cDNA can then be used as a template in the subsequent PCR reaction.
                                                 22

  WO 2013/116144                                                                 PCT/US2013/023409
100101] PCR-based methods use a thermostable DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, such as
a Taq DNA polymerase. For example, TaqMan@ PCR typically utilizes the 5'-nuclease
activity of Taq or Tth polymerase to hydrolyze a hybridization probe bound to its target
amplicon, but any enzyme with equivalent 5' nuclease activity can be used. Two
oligonucleotide primers are used to generate an amplicon typical of a PCR reaction product.
A third oligonucleotide, or probe, can be designed to facilitate detection of a nucleotide
sequence of the amplicon located between the hybridization sites the two PCR primers. The
probe can be detectably labeled, e.g., with a reporter dye, and can further be provided with
both a fluorescent dye, and a quencher fluorescent dye, as in a Taqman@ probe configuration.
Where a Taqman@ probe is used, during the amplification reaction, the Taq DNA polymerase
enzyme cleaves the probe in a template-dependent manner. The resultant probe fragments
disassociate in solution, and signal from the released reporter dye is free from the quenching
effect of the second fluorophore. One molecule of reporter dye is liberated for each new
molecule synthesized, and detection of the unquenched reporter dye provides the basis for
quantitative interpretation of the data.
[00102] TaqMan@ RT-PCR can be performed using commercially available equipment, such
as, for example, high-throughput platforms such as the ABI PRISM 7700 Sequence Detection
System (Perkin-Elmer-Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA. USA), or Lightcycler (Roche
Molecular Biochemicals, Mannheim, Germany). In a preferred embodiment, the procedure is
run on a LightCycler 480 (Roche Diagnostics) real-time PCR system, which is a microwell
plate-based cycler platform.
 [00103] 5'-Nuclease assay data are commonly initially expressed as a threshold cycle ("C,").
Fluorescence values are recorded during every cycle and represent the amount of product
amplified to that point in the amplification reaction. The threshold cycle (Ct) is generally
 described as the point when the fluorescent signal is first recorded as statistically significant.
Alternatively, data may be expressed as a crossing point ( "Cp"). The Cp value is calculated
 by determining the second derivatives of entire qPCR amplification curves and their
 maximum value, The Cp value represents the cycle at which the increase of fluorescence is
 highest and where the logarithmic phase of a PCR begins.
 [00104] To minimize errors and the effect of sample-to-sample variation, RT-PCR is usually
 performed using an internal standard. The ideal internal standard gene (also referred to as a
 reference gene) is expressed at a quite constant level among cancerous and non-cancerous
 tissue of the same origin (i.e., a level that is not significantly different among normal and
 cancerous tissues), and is not significantly affected by the experimental treatment (i.e., does
                                                   23

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
not exhibit a significant difference in expression level in the relevant tissue as a result of
exposure to chemotherapy), and expressed at a quite constant level among the same tissue
taken from different patients. For example, reference genes useful in the methods disclosed
herein should not exhibit significantly different expression levels in cancerous prostate as
compared to normal prostate tissue. Exemplary reference genes used for normalization
comprise one or more of the following genes: AAMP, ARF1, ATP5E, CLTC, GPS1, and
PGK1, Gene expression measurements can be normalized relative to the mean of one or more
(e~g., 2, 3, 4, 5, or more) reference genes. Reference-normalized expression measurements
can range from 2 to 15, where a one unit increase generally reflects a 2-fold increase in RNA
quantity.
1001051 Real time PCR is compatible both with quantitative competitive PCR, where an
internal competitor for each target sequence is used for normalization, and with quantitative
comparative PCR using a normalization gene contained within the sample, or a housekeeping
gene for RT-PCR. For further details see, e.g. field et a]., Genome Research 6:986-994
(1996).
 [001061 The steps of a representative protocol for use in the methods of the present
disclosure use fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues as the RNA source. For example, mRNA
isolation, purification, primer extension and amplification can be performed according to
methods available in the art. (see, e.g., Godfrey et al. J. Molec. Diagnostics 2: 84-91 (2000);
 Specht et al., Am. J. Pathol. 158: 419-29 (2001)). Briefly, a representative process starts with
cutting about 10 pm thick sections of paraffin-embedded tumor tissue samples, The RNA is
then extracted, and protein and DNA depleted from the RNA-containing sample. After
analysis of the RNA concentration, RNA is reverse transcribed using gene-specific primers
 followed by RT-PCR to provide for cDNA amplification products.
          Design of Intron-Based PCR Primers and Probes
 [001071 PCR primers and probes can be designed based upon exon or intron sequences
 present in the mRNA transcript of the gene of interest. Primer/probe design can be performed
 using publicly available software, such as the DNA BLAT software developed by Kent, WJ.,
 Genome Res. 12(4):656-64 (2002), or by the BLAST software including its variations.
 [001081 Where necessary or desired, repetitive sequences of the target sequence can be
 masked to mitigate non-specific signals. Exemplary tools to accomplish this include the
 Repeat Masker program available on-line through the Baylor College of Medicine, which
 screens DNA sequences against a library of repetitive elements and returns a query sequence
                                                 24

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
in which the repetitive elements are masked. The masked intron sequences can then be used
to design primer and probe sequences using any commercially or otherwise publicly available
primer/probe design packages, such as Primer Express (Applied Biosystems); MGB assay
by-design (Applied Biosystems); Primer3 (Steve Rozen and Helen J. Skaletsky (2000)
Primer3 on the WWW for general users and for biologist programmers. See S. Rrawetz, S.
Misener, Bioinformatics Methods and Protocols: Methods in Molecular Biology, pp. 365-386
(Humana Press).
[00109] Other factors that can influence PCR primer design include primer length, melting
temperature (Tm), and G/C content, specificity, complementary primer sequences, and 3
end sequence. In general, optimal PCR primers are generally 17-30 bases in length, and
contain about 20-80%, such as, for example, about 50-60% G+C bases, and exhibit Tm's
between 50 and 80 OC, e.g. about 50 to 70 0C.
 [00110] For further guidelines for PCR primer and probe design see, e.g. Dieffenbach, CW.
et al, "General Concepts for PCR Primer Design" in: PCR Primer, A Laboratory Manual,
 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,, New York, 1995, pp. 133-155; Innis and Gelfand,
 "Optimization of PCRs" in: PCR, Protocols, A Guide to Methods and Applications, CRC
 Press, London, 1994, pp. 5-11; and Plasterer, T.N. Primerselect: Primer and probe design.
 Methods Mol. Biol. 70:520-527 (1997), the entire disclosures of which are hereby expressly
 incorporated by reference,
 [001111 Table A provides further information concerning the primer, piobe, and amplicon
 sequences associated with the Examples disclosed herein.
         MassARRAY@ System
 [00112] In MassARRAY-based methods, such as the exemplary method developed by
 Sequenom, Inc. (San Diego, CA) following the isolation of RNA and reverse transcription,
 the obtained cDNA is spiked with a synthetic DNA molecule (competitor), which matches
 the targeted cDNA region in all positions, except a single base, and serves as an internal
 standard. The eDNA/competitor mixture is PCR amplified and is subjected to a post-PCR
 shrimp alkaline phosphatase (SAP) enzyme treatment, which results in the dephosphorylation
 of the remaining nucleotides. After inactivarion of the alkaline phosphatase, the PCR
 products from the competitor and cDNA are subjected to primer extension, which generates
 distinct mass signals for the competitor- and cDNA-derives PCR products. After purification,
 these products are dispensed on a chip array, which is pre-loaded with components needed
  for analysis with matrix- assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry
  (MALDI-TOF MS) analysis. The cDNA present in the reaction is then quantified by
                                                 25

  WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
analyzing the ratios of the peak areas in the mass spectrum generated. For further details see,
e.g. Ding and Cantor, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100:3059-3064 (2003).
         Other PCR-based Methods
[00113] Further PCR-based techniques that can find use in the methods disclosed herein
include, for example, BeadArray technology (Illumina, San Diego, CA; Oliphant et at.,
Discovery of Markers for Disease (Supplement to Biotechniques), June 2002; Ferguson et al.,
Analytical Chemistry 72:5618 (2000)); BeadsArray for Detection of Gene Expression@
(BADGE), using the commercially available LuminexlOO LabMAP system and multiple
color-coded microspheres (Luninex Corp., Austin, TX) in a rapid assay for gene expression
(Yang et al,, Genome Res. 11:1888-1898 (2001)); and high coverage expression profiling
(HiCEP) analysis (Fukumura et al,, NucL Acids. Res, 31(16) e94 (2003).
         Microarrays
[00114] Expression levels of a gene or microArray of interest can also be assessed using the
microarray technique. In this method, polynucleotide sequences of interest (including CDNAs
and oligonucleotides) are arrayed on a substrate. The arrayed sequences are then contacted
under conditions suitable for specific hybridization with detectably labeled cDNA generated
from RNA of a test sample. As in the RT-PCR method, the source of RNA typically is total
RNA isolated from a tumor sample, and optionally from normal tissue of the same patient as
an internal control or cell lines. RNA can be extracted, for example, from frozen or archived
paraffin-embedded and fixed (e.g. formalin-fixed) tissue samples.
 [00115] For example, PCR amplified inserts of cDNA clones of a gene to be assayed are
applied to a substrate in a dense array. Usually at least 10,000 nucleotide sequences are
applied to the substrate. For example, the microarrayed genes, immobilized on the microchip
at 1.0,000 elements each, are suitable for hybridization under stringent conditions.
Fluorescently labeled cDNA probes may be generated through incorporation of fluorescent
nucleotides by reverse transcription of RNA extracted from tissues of interest. Labeled cDNA
probes applied to the chip hybridize with specificity to each spot of DNA on the array, After
 washing under stringent conditions to remove non-specifically bound probes, the chip is
 scanned by confocal laser microscopy or by another detection method, such as a CCD
 camera. Quantitation of hybridization of each arrayed element allows for assessment of
 corresponding RNA abundance.
 [00116] With dual color fluorescence, separately labeled cDNA probes generated from two
 sources of RNA are hybridized pair wise to the array. The relative abundance of the
 transcripts from the two sources corresponding to each specified gene is thus determined
                                                26

 WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
simultaneously. The miniaturized scale of the hybridization affords a convenient and rapid
evaluation of the expression pattern for large numbers of genes. Such methods have been
shown to have the sensitivity required to detect rare transcripts, which are expressed at a few
copies per cell, and to reproducibly detect at least approximately two-fold differences in the
expression levels (Schena et at, Proc. Natl. Acad. ScL USA 93(2):106-149 (1996)).
Microarray analysis can be performed by commercially available equipment, following
manufacturer's protocols, such as by using the Affymetrix GenChip@ technology, or Incyte's
microarray technology.
         Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE)
[00117] Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a method that allows the simultaneous
and quantitative analysis of a large number of gene transcripts, without the need of providing
an individual hybridization probe for each transcript, First, a short sequence tag (about 10-14
bp) is generated that contains sufficient information to uniquely identify a transcript,
provided that the tag is obtained from a unique position within each transcript. Then, many
transcripts are linked together to form long serial molecules, that can be sequenced, revealing
the identity of the multiple tags simultaneously. The expression pattern of any population of
transcripts can be quantitatively evaluated by determining the abundance of individual tags,
and identifying the gene corresponding to each tag. For more details see, eg. Velculescu et
al,, Science 270:484-487 (1995); and Velculescu et al., Cell 88:243-51 (1997).
          Gene Expression Analysis by Nucleic Acid Sequencing
 100118] Nucleic acid sequencing technologies are suitable methods for analysis of gene
expression. The principle underlying these methods is that the number of times a cDNA
sequence is detected in a sample is directly related to the relative expression of the RNA
corresponding to that sequence. These methods are sometimes referred to by the term Digital
Gene Expression (DGE) to reflect the discrete numeric property of the resulting data. Early
methods applying this principle were Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE) and
Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing (MPSS), See, eg., S. Brenner, et al., Nature
Biotechnology 18(6):630-634 (2000). More recently, the advent of "next-generation"
 sequencing technologies has made DGE simpler, higher throughput, and more affordable, As
 a result, more laboratories are able to utilize DGE to screen the expression of more genes in
 more individual patient samples than previously possible. See, e.g., J. Marioni, Genome
Research 18(9):1509-1517 (2008); R. Morin, Genome Research 18(4):610-621 (2008); A.
 Mortazavi, Nature Methods 5(7):621-628 (2008); N, Cloonan, Nature Methods 5(7):613-619
 (2008).
                                                  27

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
         Isolating RNA from Body Fluids
[001.1.9] Methods of isolating RNA for expression analysis from blood, plasma and serum
(see, e.g. K. Enders, et al, Clin Chem 48,1647-53 (2002) (and references cited therein) and
from urine (see, e.g., R. Boom, et al., J Clin Microbiol. 28, 495-503 (1990) and references
cited therein) have been described.
         Immunohistoehemistry
[00120] Immunohistochemistry methods are also suitable for detecting the expression levels
of genes and applied to the method disclosed herein, Antibodies (e.g., monoclonal antibodies)
that specifically bind a gene product of a gene of interest can be used in such methods. The
antibodies can be detected by direct labeling of the antibodies themselves, for example, with
radioactive labels, fluorescent labels, hapten' labels such as, biotin, or an enzyme such as
horse radish peroxidase or alkaline phosphatase. Alternatively, unlabeled primary antibody
can be used in conjunction with a labeled secondary antibody specific for the primary
antibody. Immunohistochemistry protocols and kits are well known in the art and are
commercially available.
         Proteomics
 [00121] The term "proteome" is defined as the totality of the proteins present in a sample
(e.g. tissue, organism, or cell culture) at a certain point of time. Proteomics includes, among
other things, study of the global changes of protein expression in a sample (also referred to as
"expression proteomics"). Proteomics typically includes the following steps: (1) separation of
individual proteins in a sample by 2-D gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE); (2) identification of
the individual proteins recovered from the gel, e.g. my mass spectrometry or N- terminal
 sequencing, and (3) analysis of the data using bioinformatics.
         General Description of the mRNA Isolation, Purification and Amplification
 [00122] The steps of a representative protocol for profiling gene expression using fixed,
paraffin-embedded tissues as the RNA source, including mRNA isolation, purification,
primer extension and amplification are provided in various published journal articles. (See,
 e.g, T.E. Godfrey, et al,, J. Molec. Diagnostics 2: 84-91 (2000); K, Specht et al., Am. J.
 Pathol, 158: 419-29 (2001), M. Cronin, et al., Am J Pathol 164:35-42 (2004)). Briefly, a
 representative process starts with cutting a tissue sample section (e.g.about 1.0 pn thick
 sections of a paraffin-embedded tumor tissue sample). The RNA is then extracted, and
 protein and DNA are removed. After analysis of the RNA concentration, RNA repair is
 performed if desired, The sample can then be subjected to analysis, e.g., by reverse
 transcribed using gene specific promoters followed by RT-PCR.
                                                  28

 WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
STATISTIcAL ANALYSIS OF EXPRESSION LEVELS IN IDENTIFICATION OF GENES
[00123] One skilled in the art will recognize that there are many statistical methods that may
be used to determine whether there is a significant relationship between a clinical outcome of
interest (e.g., recurrence) and expression levels of a marker gene as described here. In an
exemplary embodiment, the present invention includes three studies. The first study is a
stratified cohort sampling design (a form of case-control sampling) using tissue and data from
prostate cancer patients. Selection of specimens was stratified by clinical T-stage (TI, T2),
year of surgery (<1993, >1993), and prostatectomy Gleason Score (low/intermediate, high),
All patients with clinical recurrence were selected and a stratified random sample of patients
who did not experience a clinical recurrence was selected. For each patient, up to two
enriched tumor specimens and one normal -appearing tissue sample were assayed. The
second study used a subset of 70 patients from the first study from whom matched prostate
biopsy tumor tissue was assayed. The third study includes all patients (170 evaluable
patients) who had surgery for their prostate cancer between 1999 and 2010 at the Cleveland
Clinic (CC) and had Low or Intermediate risk (by AUA) clinically localized prostate cancer
who might have been reasonable candidates for active surveillance but who underwent RP at
CC within 6 months of the diagnosis of prostate cancer by biopsy, Biopsy tumor tissue from
these patients was assayed.
[00124] All hypothesis tests were reported using two-sided p-values. To investigate if there
is a significant relationship of outcomes (eg. clinical recurrence-free interval (cRFI),
biochemical recurrence-free interval (bRFI), prostate cancer-specific survival (PCSS), overall
survival (OS)) with individual genes, and demographic or clinical covariates), Cox
Proportional Hazards (PH) models using maximum weighted pseudo partial-likelihood
estimators were used and p-values from Wald tests of the null hypothesis that the hazard ratio
(HR) is one are reported. To investigate if there is a significant relationship between
individual genes and Gleason pattern of a particular sample, ordinal logistic regression
models using maximum weighted pseudolikelihood methods were used and p-values from
Wald tests of the null hypothesis that the odds ratio (OR) is one are reported. To investigate if
there is a significant relationship between individual genes and upgrading and/or upstaging or
 adverse pathology at RP, logistic regression models using maximum weighted
pseudolikelihood methods were used and p-values from Wald tests of the null hypothesis that
the odds ratio (OR) is one are reported.
                                                 29

  WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
Co.EXPRESSION ANALYSIS
[00125] In an exemplary embodiment, the joint correlation of gene expression levels among
prostate cancer specimens under study may be assessed, For this purpose, the correlation
structures among genes and specimens may be examined through hierarchical cluster
methods. This information may be used to confirm that genes that are known to be highly
correlated in prostate cancer specimens cluster together as expected. Only genes exhibiting a
nominally significant (unadjusted p < 0.05) relationship with cRFI in the univariate Cox PH
regression analysis are included in these analyses.
[001261 One skilled in the art will recognize that many co-expression analysis methods now
known or later developed will fall within the scope and spirit of the present invention. These
methods may incorporate, for example, correlation coefficients, co-expression network
analysis, clique analysis, etc., and may be based on expression data from RT-PCR.
microarrays, sequencing, and other similar technologies. For example, gene expression
clusters can be identified using pair-wise analysis of correlation based on Pearson or
Spearman correlation coefficients. (See, e.g., Pearson K, and Lee A., Biometrika 2, 357
(1902); C. Spearman, Amer. J. Psychol 15:72-101 (1904); J. Myers, A. Well, Research
Design and Statistical Analysis, p. 508 (2nd Ed., 2003).) An exemplary method for
identifying co-expressed genes is described in Example 3 below.
NORMALIZAITON OF EXPRESSION LEVELS
 [00127] The expression data used in the methods disclosed herein can be normalized.
Normalization refers to a process to correct for (normalize away), for example, differences in
the amount of RNA assayed and variability in the quality of the RNA used, to remove
unwanted sources of systematic variation in Ct or Cp measurements, and the like. With
respect to RT-PCR experiments involving archived fixed paraffin embedded tissue samples,
sources of systematic variation are known to include the degree of RNA degradation relative
to the age of the patient sample and the type of fixative used to store the sample. Other
 sources of systematic variation are attributable to laboratory processing conditions.
 [00128] Assays can provide for normalization by incorporating the expression of certain
 normalizing genes, which do not significantly differ in expression levels under the relevant
 conditions. Exemplary normalization genes disclosed herein include housekeeping genes.
 (See, eg., E. Eisenberg, et al., Trends in Genetics 19(7):362-365 (2003).) Normalization can
 be based on the mean or median signal (Ct or Cp) of all of the assayed genes or a large subset
 thereof (global normalization approach). In general, the normalizing genes, also referred to as
 reference genes, are typically genes that are known not to exhibit meaningfully different
                                                 30

  WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
expression in prostate cancer as compared to non-cancerous prostate tissue, and track with
various sample and process conditions, thus provide for normalizing away extraneous effects,
[00129] In exemplary embodiments, one or more of the following genes are used as
references by which the mRNA expression data is normalized: AAMP, ARFI, ATP5E,
CLTC, GPS1, and PGK. The calibrated weighted average C-r or Cp measurements for each
of the prognostic and predictive genes may be normalized relative to the mean of five or more
reference genes.
[001.301 Those skilled in the art will recognize that normalization may be achieved in
numerous ways, and the techniques described above are intended only to be exemplary, not
exhaustive.
 STANDARDIZATION OF EXPRESSION          LEvELS
[00131] The expression data used in the methods disclosed herein can be standardized.
Standardization refers to a process to effectively put all the genes on a comparable scale. This
is performed because some genes will exhibit more variation (a broader range of expression)
than others. Standardization is performed by dividing each expression value by its standard
deviation across all samples for that gene. Hazard ratios are then interpreted as the
proportional change in the hazard for the clinical endpoint (clinical recurrence, biological
recurrence, death due to prostate cancer, or death due to any cause) per 1 standard deviation
increase in expression.
KITS OF THE INVENTION
 [00132] The materials for use in the methods of the present invention are suited for
preparation of kits produced in accordance with well-known procedures. The present
disclosure thus provides kits comprising agents, which may include gene-specific or gene
selective probes and/or primers, for quantifing the expression of the disclosed genes for
predicting prognostic outcome or response to treatment. Such kits may optionally contain
reagents for the extraction of RNA from tumor samples, in particular fixed paraffin
embedded tissue samples and/or reagents for RNA amplification. In addition, the kits may
optionally comprise the reagent(s) with an identifying description or label or instructions
relating to their use in the methods of the present invention, The kits may comprise containers
 (including microliter plates suitable for use in an automated implementation of the method),
 each with one or more of the various materials or reagents (typically in concentrated form)
 utilized in the methods, including, for example, chromatographic columns, pre-fabricated
 microarrays, buffers, the appropriate nucleotide triphosphates (e.g., dATP, dCTP, dGTP and
 dTTP; or rATP, rCTP, rGTP and UTP), reverse transcriptase, DNA polymerase, RNA
                                                  31

 WO 2013/116144                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
polymerase, and one or more probes and primers of the present invention (e.g., appropriate
length poly(T) or random primers linked to a promoter reactive with the RNA polymerasee,
Mathematical algorithms used to estimate or quantify prognostic or predictive information
are also properly potential components of kits.
REPORTS
[00133] The methods of this invention, when practiced for commercial diagnostic purposes,
generally produce a report or summary of information obtained from the herein-described
methods. For example, a report may include information concerning expression levels of one
or more genes, classification of the tumor or the patient's risk of recurrence, the patient's
likely prognosis or risk classification, clinical and pathologic factors, and/or other
information, The methods and reports of this invention can further include storing the report
in a database. The method can create a record in a database for the subject and populate the
record with data. The report may be a paper report, an auditory report, or an electronic record.
The report may be displayed and/or stored on a computing device (e.g., handheld device,
desktop computer, smart device, website, etc.). It is contemplated that the report is provided
to a physician and/or the patient, The receiving of the report can further include establishing a
network connection to a server computer that includes the data and report and requesting the
data and report from the server computer.
COMPUTER PROGRAM
 1001341 The values from the assays described above, such as expression data, can be
calculated and stored manually. Alternatively, the above-described steps can be completely or
partially performed by a computer program product, The present invention thus provides a
computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having a computer
program stored on it. The program can, when read by a computer, execute relevant
 calculations based on values obtained from analysis of one or more biological samples from
 an individual (e.g., gene expression levels, normalization, standardization, thresholding, and
 conversion of values from assays to a score and/or text or graphical depiction of tumor stage
 and related information). The computer program product has stored therein a computer
 program for performing the calculation,
 [001351 The present disclosure provides systems for executing the program described above,
 which system generally includes: a) a central computing environment; b) an input device,
 operatively connected to the computing environment, to receive patient data, wherein the
 patient data can include, for example, expression level or other value obtained from an assay
 using a biological sample from the patient, or microarray data, as described in detail above;
                                                  32

 WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
c) an output device, connected to the computing environment, to provide information to a
user (e.g., medical personnel); and d) an algorithm executed by the central computing
environment (e.g., a processor), where the algorithm is executed based on the data received
by the input device, and wherein the algorithm calculates an expression score, thresholding,
or other functions described herein. The methods provided by the present invention may also
be automated in whole or in part.
[00136] Having described the invention, the same will be more readily understood through
reference to the following Examples, which are provided by way of illustration, and are not
intended to limit the invention in any way.
                                           EXINmLES
   EXAMPLE 1: SELECTION OF 81 GENES FOR ALGORITHM DEVELOPMENT
[00137] A gene identification study to identify genes associated with clinical recurrence,
biochemical recurrence and/or death from prostate cancer is described in U.S. Provisional
Application Nos. 61/368,217, filed July 27, 2010; 61/414,3 10, filed November 16, 2010; and
61/485,536, filed May 12, 2011, and in U.S. Pub. No. 20120028264, filed July 25, 2011, and
published February 2, 2012 (all of which are hereby incorporated by reference). RT-PCR
analysis was used to determine RNA expression levels for 732 genes and reference genes in
prostate cancer tissue and surrounding normal appearing tissue (NAT) in patients with early
stage prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy. Genes significantly associated
(p<0.05) with clinical recurrence-free interval (cRFI), biochemical recurrence-free interval
(bRFI), prostate cancer-specific survival (PCSS), and upgrading/upstaging were determined.
100138] From the genes that were identified as being associated with outcome, 81 genes
were selected for subsequent algorithm development. The primers, probes, and amplicon
sequences of the 81 genes (and 5 reference genes) are listed in Table A. The genes selected
were among the most prognostic with respect to cRF1 and other properties and shown in
Tables IA-IB. Other properties considered were: 1) Strongest genes with respect to the
regression to the mean corrected standardized hazard ratio for the association of gene
expression and cRFI in the primary Gleason pattern tumor; 2) Consistency in association
(hazard ratio) with cRFI using the highest Gleason pattern tumor; 3) Associated with
prostate-cancer specific survival (PCSS); 4) Strong hazard ratio after adjustment for The
University of San Francisco Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) (Cooperberg
et al., J. Urol. 173:1983-1942, 2005); 5) Statistically significant odds ratio for the association
between gene expression and surgical Gleason pattern of the tumor; 6) Large overall
                                                33

  WO 2013/116144                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
variability with greater between-patient variability than within-patient variability preferable;
and 7) Highly expressed.
[00139] The true discovery rate degree of association (TDRDA) method (Crager, Stat Med,
2010 Jan 15;29(t):33-45.) was used in the analysis of gene expression and cRFI and results
are shown in Table IA. The true discovery rate is the counterpart to the false discovery rate.
Univariate Cox PH regression models were fit and the TDRDA method was used to correct
estimated standardized hazard ratios for regression to the mean (RMI) and and assess false
discovery rates for identification of genes with absolute standardized hazard ratio of at least a
specified level. The false discovery rates were controlled at 10%, The TDRDA method
identifies sets of genes among which a specified proportion are expected to have an absolute
association (here, the absolute standardized hazard ratio) of a specified degree or more. This
leads to a gene ranking method that uses the maximum lower bound (MLB) degree of
association fior which each gene belongs to a TDRDA set. Estimates of each gene's actual
degree of association with approximate correction for "selection bias" due to regression to the
mean can be derived using simple bivariate normal theory and Efron and Tibshirani's
empirical Bayes approach. Efron, Annals ofApplied Statistics 2:197-223 (2008); Efron and
Tibshirani, Genetic Epidemiology 23: 70-86. Table IA shows the RM-corrected estimate of
the standardized hazard ratio and the MLB for each gene using either the primary Gleason
 pattern (PGP) or highest Gleason pattern (HGP) sample gene expression. Genes marked with
 a direction of association of -1 are associated with a reduced likelihood of clinical recurrence,
 while those marked with a direction of association of I are associated with an increased
 likelihood of clinical recurrence.
 [001401 Within patient and between patient variance components were estimated using a
 mixed model treating the patient effect as random. The overall mean and standard deviation
 of normalized gene expression as well as within- and between-patient components of
 variance are shown in Table IA.
 [00141] Univariate Cox PI regression models using maximum weighted partial
 pseudolikelihood estimation were used to estimate the association between gene expression
 and prostate cancer specific-survival (PCSS). 'The standardized hazard ratio (HR), p-value
 and q-value using Storey's FDR method are reported in Table lB, Storey, JournaloJ'the
 Royal StatisticalSociety, Series B 64:479-498 (2002). The q-value can be interpreted as the
 empirical Bayes posterior probability given the data that the gene identified is a false
  discovery, that is, the probability that it has no association with clinical recurrence.
                                                    34

  WO 2013/116144                                                          PCT/US2013/023409
1001421 Univariate ordinal logistic regression models were used to estimate the association
between gene expression and the Gleason pattern of the primary Gleason pattern tumor (3, 4,
5), The standardized odds ratio (OR), p-value and q-value using Storey's FDR method are
reported in Table lB.
[00143] Figure 1 shows an example of a dendrogram depicting the association of the 81
genes. The y-axis corresponds to the average distance between clusters measured as I
Pearson r. The smaller the number (distance measure), the more highly correlated the genes.
The amalgamation method is weighted pair-group average. Genes that were co-expressed
were identified from the dendrogram and are grouped into gene groups. Based on Figure 1,
the genes from the Gene Identification study were formed into the following gene groups or
subsets:
100144] Cellular organization gene group (BIN1; IGFI; C7; GSN; DES; TGFBILI; TPM2;
VCL; FLNC; ITGA7; COL6AI; PPPIR12A; GSTMl; GSTM2; PAGE4; PPAP2B;
SRD5A2; PRKCA; IGFBP6; GPM6B; OLFML3; HLF)
[001451 Basal epithelia gene group (CYP3A5; KRT15; KRT5; LAMB3; SDCI)
[00146] Stress response gene group (DUSPI; EGRI; FOS; JUN; EGR3; GADD45B;
ZFP36)
 100147] Androgen gene group (FAM13C; KLK2; AZGPI; SRD5A2)
 [001481 Stromal gene group (ASPN; SFRP4; BG N; THBS2; IN-IBA; COLIAl; COL3Ai;
COLIA2; SPARC; COL8A1; COL4Ai; FN1; FAP; COL5A2)
 [00149] Proliferation gene group (CDC20; TPX2; UBE2T; MYBL2; CDKN2C)
                                               35

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .                           - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:.:. :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :   :*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :                   ::,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            " :::
   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .........   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I M                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                 *-* .1...                                                                                             N...  .. -                                  -."------,.-.-.               ...,'                  ... ....                        - 'I .........-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - ............
                 ------------------          ......
                                             .......
                                             .......  - - ......                      L.')-.-.-.-.--
                                                                                   -----     :::  :......  'W: - .....
                                                                                                         :.....                       .....
                                                                                                                                   :......
                                                                                                                                   .::            -N--     :I-----        - ii..'.      ii*'-.
                                                                                                                                                                                              --
                                                                                                                                                                                              -1                              "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..... ..'I -....                      ."".    .- N                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......          * , .......          ....                               ....-.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......                           ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ") ......                               .....:.: I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                               .                                                     .... ........                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..:::::    Ol                 ,-I ::***'**,  -- ---            CO     X:......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::,.I                        -"   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i       V      ;        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " ::::         '-"Z*$.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .'                       .:.:.*: 'lJ:::.<*.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::N
                                             X*
                                                               is                     CU       1*3
                                                                                               ::%         .
                                                                                                       ... Y
                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                                  .                ...
                                                                                                                                   :::
                                                                                                                                   :::N         ::".        * 91 i R il T
                                                                                                                                                       ......                                                                      ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..- a,                     *....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *:::     g.. ...  :I C.).:.:.r.'.l               ": ,I                                             " :::o          . N:    . N       't P:::,S -:: u_1                       :.:...-.... '.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN .:::..:                              ::.:.
                                             :::.*.."
                                                 Xr., "':..
                                                                              ::::r'.'*.       ....
                                                                                      Ln :.:.:.-4-*.:
                                                                                               ...                                 .......
                                                                                                                                   -.....                                                                        .T ::: ::o             : ;- ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t'- XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .. .I - .....m                  ;lll' - .:.::H                                  : N                                                                               :::::A                   Ln .3  :::::         . .:
                                             ::  .:: , : lfj ::::::M                                                                                        :. -- :.:::             ..:.t- 1I C, :::-,,,-:              :::...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .: C ...                            1*                              . ': : M.. 1,-1 ...                                                g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . IN ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,T ; ::        .. .:   .: DO      - ::::X    . :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w .,:::k      :m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .. .* .,
                                             :.:m                                              ::: *                                :::::
                                                                                                                                      ::::           *.      *:           C       :                            In       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::.,-*,.k                           :  i... :&        -                 i  :X                       ",     :::::           -':                                                   :::            :
                                             : 181 ,- :::                                      ::::.......  1.                        ......
                                                                                                                                    X..4.S :.. 1
                                                                                                                                    :.X......l.                                                                         :::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                '-C.:.:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x.-                                   ......., , 6 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O .:.X.&.::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      'z    :.....                               :'. -.'.'".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::3             i -I -4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,                   ...'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 r' .:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...     *:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        : ,,t::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . I -nI ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , :4            %'.* ' :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...:*:....1-1              . :::2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :-:-:      - : C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....         r- ::*.::::*.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :-X.....".
                         141                 i....... ii;-N-i        11 - XX.-                 ... H
                                                                                             .:::
                                                                                             :::::            .*.                      X. : i'::::'::
                                                                                                                                     :::                                          :::   . -.-                           ::"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....... .....                 '-- ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...   :::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........... '*"", --A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::::::   *-, ,-q ..............     :i*:*-*                              *...... -.jij H ..........       :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :: 1-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 j .4:. .' '-j :::*::::         .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............      ' ' .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::.. .*:       q..
                    gL' --.                   :::::::::::::                                        ......
                                                                                               ............ ' .............            .....         . .     .                    .-.-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........  ;::    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                       .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -.-.-.-     -.-                   ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....                              :-:-:-:-:-:-:                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............   '              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............     I             ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                         -a.--                   -.............
                                                   ............      -                       .:.:.:.:.:.:.                             .....                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                  ............          '                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............  -. '                                                    .............                     ..............                   ......           I      -      ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.........-SI
                                              :**'*-- ,..-.....                                ....-
                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                   ........
                                                                                               ......
                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                              ...        -           :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                     . .....
                                                                                                                                       ............                                 ........
                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                        II '- .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                             --            ..   :.                                                            .............                                            l       al       --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::'::r       .'s:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::::::.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -             ,        N       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""'.    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        --- '-- - ....    .                ......         .x
           , EI                               -...    ...........
                                              ..........             '-, ,                                          I fl) :::::      5                       '       ----  -        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                     --         .:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...                        D::::::.ll-A:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::::::-                  r,:::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '-.-:-X-'     W         -           ,.........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ............     .                :    .....?t                    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..............
                                              .......                                                  .....
                                                                                                   ......                            ........
                                                                                                                                       ......                                     .......           .. ' ! ::-X-*O.*.   .......                       w :::::n ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..:O. . .*: 'M::.:.                        '                                        ... LI):::.                                                                                             :k .......
           1 :R of                                 .. A.-. co'-
                                              :::::*
                                              :::::A
                                                                                               :::::Zll.
                                                                                         .' iA, ,. o ::: -:
                                                                                                                                                             : '; ::.
                                                                                                                                                      * ", :::jt                    :::...... cc                        ::':'4-N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X,*. T-****                                        :t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .. --1: ' ; :*'::::              I.....                                ::m: H **:1:                                    . .......       :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......                          ::::::tn             :
                                              :::     .. - ' .:.:.                                          ...:.                    ::4 : L" X;                                  ::::.0*": -171:::::.'n: f" ::.::.:                                          . ....                   ,I ::.::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;l                      - - : ::: ---,t -:::                                     :.i-KA-: 't :*:N                            *           IN :::                    : 'q           :::::W::
                L3. W                              X                                                                       - -x-A
                                                                                                              .. : M ::::: .:                                                                :t-.                                                                                      Iq :. :j:W                                    ::* ... m :....                                                      ::M                            ::W       . .:. '4' :::           ::N "              '.
                         r9 10                . .
                                              *::::U'$:                               Z" :.:::m                                                                                   .:.:.N"                       N, :*:03i                             tn :::::*       N:..                               -' : cl,                  x:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00 -i.."...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X'nq:         .. rl' :::                                ,T :::
                y ,              Q'I          : : Omi - :::                                               g         :      2                      ::.X                            ::::*%k4:
                                                                                                                                                                                    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                  ::.:                          cr,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                v.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I       ....: ..4-.i: r'              " "     ::X'    &       - rm".::::::    ::::-a... .I: - 1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -4:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -   I Ll :::S        :..:..: :.: *',' :::                 ... .. - 'n                 M .-: m .::::::-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IY3.'
                                                                                      vq ...                    . I                  .. *'..'     ::....*:                -i                :                       ,                                                  ..            -          A                                   :::::M            *: - :::             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...:.:.-: w                I :::,  :M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .. I It:::.*          P,      :..X         .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ! :      T xo
                 c -6 li         w            :::::N
                                                   .
                                                      ...
                                                      :-                    :
                                                                            :                      X
                                                                                               .: .N .                                 ":
                                                                                                                                . ::::::.ll. ..... * :I rl .........              :::::.                                :::::....  - ..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .:-:-'-tr:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .    :       -!     :.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .. X            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....l.                     .::            4 *            . .......... . Al.                     .        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :.:.. - ,.-; ::*.....:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :A                                       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ". .:* '-         , ;:::r  X;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......ff-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X......'                                                                                                                            :::
                Ixj X ) -0
                         ,                     ::::4-4:
                                               .:............                                  ...........
                                                                                                :::::",     , .J: , - :::::
                                                                                                                                       ........:K.-l:     .-: ,q ...              :::::*::,.
                                                                                                                                                                                    .....     . . ......          -1 :::...::.....                            :::.*.-.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .::"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........                H :::    :::    ..5:  . -t ::::.:..,:          . .V.A IIN :::                   :.:.:.j: '_4 :::                 ... ...                        :::::I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....      ....                .:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ... I
                                               .............
                                                      ...........                                  ............
                                                                                                .............
                                                                                                .......                                ............
                                                                                                                                       .......  .........    "' -                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                  ........  ..........                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...... ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............                           ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..    ......."I                   ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .................                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...... .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...... ............              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... .............          ....... ,..........'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ::::::.... ...
                                                      ..-.-.-.-
                                               :X.'.'...                                           ....
                                                                                                .............
                                                                                                .....            ..
                                                                                                            '.......   I--                   ............
                                                                                                                                       ........
                                                                                                                                             -.-.-    -.  '     ."                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                     ........                           ............                          .............                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............              .       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......       ,                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......                        II.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..........  ....   'I
                = <             u                     '..........                                  "       :-:-:-:-:                    .
                                                                                                                                        ...........          "                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                   .............    ....                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........     ,                        .............                   .............                         .............      I              ......            I                     :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............                   .............                      ........
                         - ---------       --.X.X                   X.X'3 ......                   -                                         ...... ...... ...                                                                                                                                                                      ......                                                   -           .-.-.-.-.-    ,-,     ....        ...          .                    ......           "
                                               , ..........                   '                 .......
                                                                                                   ...........      I                   ....--,'
                                                                                                                                        .............                              :-:-:-:-:--,; ............           -:-:-:-:-:-.                          -:-*.'.'.'                        ............                         ... .                            I............ "............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,..........                                 -:-X                   :-X-X-'                          ,..:.:.:.:           :
                  31,                          .......
                                                   X             X     X
                                                                                                .........
                                                                                                .  :      .....  .."                    ............
                                                                                                                                        .............                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                       ......            'I                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....      '              ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........   ....                     .............                     .............                      .        ....                   ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........                 *.:.:.:.:.
                                                   .........
                                               .............             ,'                     .............                                   ,......,
                                                                                                                                        ...............                            .............                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............       '                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .........    ....                 .  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........                        :.:.:.:.:.::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....       ........              :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ... I                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -           ...                     ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::::               1
                                                                                            ..  ............                                                                       ,        ..........                  ............       '                  .......                           ............                        .  ...........                    ......            I                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......                         .............
                  r -
                '2 c .2
                                 =                 ....
                                                   ......
                                                           ......-
                                                                 '  .......'.'
                                                                         ...I
                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                   --.-.-.-        -                    ,
                                                                                                                                        ........
                                                                                                                                        ....................                       .............
                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                   .......                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............   ,'  '                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............   ,'                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............     "               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:.::.:.:.:..... I                :X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::: '   :    :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .................
                                                   ......-
                                                   ............
                                                               .....          '
                                                                              '
                                                                                                .
                                                                                                ,I............
                                                                                                 :
                                                                                                   ...... ........
                                                                                                       ......      '.                   ............
                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                                                             ............    "                     ....
                                                                                                                                                                                   .-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                   .-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                ........
                                                                                                                                                                                              -.-.  '.'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...   .              .....     '......'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .     ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,.::.::.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ............. ......              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........     ,'                ............    'I              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ''........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....            i
                                                                                                                                                                                              : * -I I...........,
                                                                                                                                             ......                                  ..                                                                                          I                        ?.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::: : " ::.:::                       .........                          .............                    .....       4                     ::;'        '4
                .T ,0.r, M                         ::::    ..
                                                           ......     .A.   .         ,            ::iiii;4      -*- -:tI i:iii                      -I
                                                                                                                                                     '.                              i:i-    X-:                        :::: *                         _j      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .::.             :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .:               :::                                    ...      "  .4:             .    :::        -,A            '-j    :':':  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............                  :x:-:-:-,-:      : ' ::::%-         X.       :::      i
                             0) 0
                                             t     ::::::::k:::
                                                   ......
                                                   ......-
                                                      ..........
                                                   .............         :..'
                                                                              I
                                                                              ''
                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                 .........'          I
                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                             ...... .........
                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                        .........
                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                        ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                     ...... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...'.....'..'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "          "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .-.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "        "     ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -:-:...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 'I                    .:.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ............. -.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......   '.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .........      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -.--.-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -.-
                                                    ...........                                  .......
                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                     .......     -                       .....               -                                           l                 ............                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..                                "'I"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .............     '                 """.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...... .............               *.*.'.'.'.*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............      '              """.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... ...... .......          ""'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......                          "'......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                 .............       '                       .....                                                                      -.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *-- '                      ***'                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......                             ......                                                '
                < 0 < 11
                                                    ............
                                                      .. .''
                                                    :,*,*,**-'-*                                 ..... ...
                                                                                                 :-:-:-:-:-*-   .....'                   .............
                                                                                                                                         ..:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                             -.-.-.-.-       -.                                       l,                   I*-.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............                       ':M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *********
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "'I"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........      ''                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "I"".                               ............. .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "".".                            .......-...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "."'.                           ......      '....'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .""'.                               ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ."'......          '
                                                    . .........                                        ,, .- : ------
                                                                                                 ::::::::::                               ....... ::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                          :::::.:::::::                                                                   .'...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..........   ,                      ,...........'                     .............      I                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......                             ............. .............      .....'.......                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........... '...                 .-.-      -.-.-.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                         n''I -----
                                                    ...........                                  --                                                                                                        .              .......                               ...... ......                                                                                                                                                              ...... ......
                                    I-              ,,----.-.
                                                    ...........                                      ---
                                                                                                 :-:-:-:-:-
                                                                                                 .........
                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                          ....... -                   --     '          -:-:-:-:-:-,                      - ...  .   ..                       ......   ,-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..............                    ............       '                ............                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::::p'j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....      '              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....... ...........
                                                    .....-..               ,                                                              .  ...........         '. 'f- ::j:::j:j$   ::::::::::::'        1               ...-.....'.                                          . "O : . , .                                                                                                               :                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                          :::::,-.t                                                                                                                         ..:
                                                    .....-.....
                                                    :.....".....'
                                                    ............
                                                                                                                                          ::::*
                                                                                                                                          :::::J'y  .i.'.4 t, i ; M'l.! ,n -::
                                                                                                                                                                                 z                               'IN,.:.:.,W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *:::::  M:. 0' .:.:.:    _J          ,. .A:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ::::::"     -            0 :.         ....0 i ,00 :::::::::::::       .::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .-. :::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....    ::::, M X.N.t.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....                       ...' --.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . : r' :.:::        ....:.O. : ' ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D :::::;;'        .j !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::::j.    1.4 vq :::::*":'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8. -,              3 I-l'*
                     'I'                     z      ............
                                                    ..........
                                                    ...........
                                                      ...........
                                                    .......
                                                                    .......    ''
                                                                                '
                                                                                       O         :
                                                                                                                                          IX:4,4
                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                .. *;:
                                                                                                                                                :     -
                                                                                                                                                                 . 0 :*X*.;:n 1q ::::4'N-:
                                                                                                                                                                           C.I ii g il
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::..O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -- .*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -. : In V .;            tz:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C" .....:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .%:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X'A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w ::* - :"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4..: N                    ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .:.:.w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - W                 ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ') :::::V.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C;)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..-..-.   . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A- -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .. 1-0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C) :::    .. f ... .- :::k                  .. W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * :,
            t                                       .....
                                                      ...........                                                                         :                                                                                                                                                     ::::%I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...       ln:                       ,..........                                                   -,            A       --         n                              co        :*:O
                                                    ............                                 ::::::                                   ....: 4'                        1, i :T.'l
                                                                                                                                                                          '-                                        " 114:: "r                         01) :::             *            m                          :                    ......                 1-1", -. . --; .; . ::::::m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11       ::*:x      *  *               .   :::::           :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          . t    lil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I               M                ko        ::::      M::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ln :::.::m    .                          .... . : I- .:.%:.:.%.               :::::: , :::                                                 '7 ::: N t f-.!                                                 'N :::::14-:
            .            co                           ......C'
                                                    .............                      O :--xc       ..... I,
                                                                                                 ::::::A                                  :::*     A i - :::*,                               ffil 00             --' :::R':*                           - i : iiiiij:i C i:..-:-:'*-                                                                                                                                              .' ...                                     .:.:.*    . *7  4'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '.
                                                    -.......         --                                                                                                                                                         X.....,, : ,I ......                                                       -                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...,....                          .. .4:                  . -..........                        i A -*         -                 :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....
                'aw 2                                 .........
                                                     X"
                                                      :::::,
                                                     ......      '.*.*'...'
                                                                         .*'.I 1 I.........            ......'....',                      ::::'
                                                                                                                                             ::: :.::j:
                                                                                                                                           :XXX
                                                                                                                                                       .4:
                                                                                                                                                                 . n ::::                   :j:k*. '- ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                        ::,."Il,
                                                                                                                                                                                        .........                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                           ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X.X-X.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .... r-l .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...                  ::..:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c)) :.:.:.:.,.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:...':
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..                  ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........,I                      -..'-l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......      ...  Il               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,...-.....
                                                     :...... ............                            ::-:-:-:-:-                I            ......   :::..                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                     ::: ,.' -   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I........,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......          I ------            :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ............             -I -    --.--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::*.:-:.:-:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             q ------                    ......  0                          .........                     :::-.-':t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '.*.:::::         :             .....      ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .................   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '             :::::::-'-'-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                     '                     :*::N
                                                                                                                                           : ......          ..    i                 .........                              -.-,,,                             ...........        1             .......   ,....                      ....       , ..'...                .............          I. .          ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........ . .      . ...... -."",-.,------.                           -
                                                     ,,.,.,
                              "-,"--------.............
                                                     ......
                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                       '.t .............
                                                                                I ......
                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                     ::: ": -111 .............                                     '  '-           -n
                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::W.:             ' -; ::::..           nn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......    .                            '!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......    ....-.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .............                        X...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                       --- ......    'j: ' .:.:.:.:.:    :::::     '. 1 'n .-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *******
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ***         -.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *                 ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l '-'4 ..............
                                                      ..X . :::.;:.*'.4:                             .............
                                                                                                     .:.:.M      -.*. 'n .............     . ,'                                      ........ .0.*:                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :- .                           ......      .w                   ......                      C;,:::  ...- I                                                                                               :::::M                            :::::      M.::
                  1 W T
                 a.                                  :::::M
                                                     :::::.'x.j:                ] 1-1  -; :::::      :::::*.O        .                     ;:::::W5::
                                                                                                                                           ....           -                00 :::. : .                                           :4                    Lr) :::::O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *::.               : ,I ::::::;  :. .. .q: lp, :::::tn. 00 :::                                           ...         .-4: 0' :::::W: 00 :::::.M                                          ,  l ,,, :::::.V    :.. . ,I
                                                                       .                                     N i ,--: ...                       . :... ..... (N ::R
                                                                                                                                                     :i,:                                                                 i .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Q                     '  "         i ig-*-.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........           :     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'n      .::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::i::: w                     "       ::*:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .  .... k.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0    .       ,-,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -        -:-x'-?.'j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....       . ..  ,       IN      X.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :   ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....... oc.            ( -')    :::::M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :   *:o          :                 ::::         *,*::
                                                                                                                                                  i::' *:: w X                                      *.           "              i .k.'. :                                                             **       *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     : : rl :::::JA - -*.:                               :       1      :::::    'N                       .:..:.il'-'*: In                .:.: . i m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , :::::U'f-                                 ::*"-'
                 fti. a; 10
                                                     ::::::*
                                                     : ..ft      :*.**I*        -: cr) G) .:.:M      :::  *'D: 't.D .*xiir                      : .' -I .:::,.,:                            ...,..               t.o ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 'D         i'.'..'.-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::*.,'.                        ::::       ' 1 H :::X,. : 0 :::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .: ...                                                                                                         - : 0m :::::r"-4                                                               ' . ::::::O                 I'
                                                      "***                                                                                                                           .............                                                                  ****   .      *: -i ::i ...        Q                     0       :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .:.:.M            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :A : LO :::                                                  ::. O.                           :::
                                                      A..:.:...:* Q-                                   ::w
                                                                                                     :::
                                                                                                       : .O.*:       : C    O .....             ::
                                                                                                                                             ::::*k.'*l'                   1,        :  ::.::.P           :      -!             ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::*"Y'                          -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X         .                      : ..-     -1                               :   :8                      ..                                   .      o  ,  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -      Q0       :::                      Ln
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'IT       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *::        "
                       I  = --1
                            -5 w
                                                     :::
                                                     .....
                                                      .........            l.
                                                                                        - :::        ..    .:
                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                     ... '*j.     ,
                                                                                                                                             :
                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                             :-:i
                                                                                                                                             .::::k
                                                                                                                                                     !       -             r'
                                                                                                                                                             *f: ,-I .............
                                                                                                                                                                                        .... i-
                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::*.k.*j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .." >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  : I U ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::k   .':
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , I HD :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A  "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . :: I, ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,  .   i.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '               m      :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ' .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :-:::\'.j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : . ' .'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .       I-       i     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::::::k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :;! -!     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .J: ,I :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "I         i;i  '-A  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    li... " ::::::ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :      -'l     .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ::.:::'I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *...'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       zj:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::-&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .. ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       q'
                           .0 It-                    ::::::'
                                                     -:'-.-.-.-.........    -.1 '--j :::::.
                                                                      -..*4.:                             ....... '... 14 .............
                                                                                                       ............                             .........                                                                                                      ...........                       ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..........      '::                   ::-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............          Cj .......   ..'.........                     ...... .............           ......                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                      ...
                                                      ............                I          '':............
                                                                                                          ...-.....                          .....
                                                                                                                                             .  ..........   -''                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,'                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............                     ...........        ''               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...-         ....."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .-......   - .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............  ,                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........
                                                     ,...........'
                                                      ............
                                                     ..........            ,                         ..............
                                                                                                     ...         ...                         .  ...........
                                                                                                                                                ....         -     '                 -       ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                     .............                           ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......                        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                                ...........         '               .........       ',                     ........  '...'               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .'...........                   ,..'.......                        .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                 :L _ _ ..... -:':-:-:-:- 'l.X.:.X.:.                                                                                        :-:-:-:-::-;                                   ...... .....                                                                                                                             -.............                     ,...........                                                                     x... ............
                                                                                                       - ....                                   ...... .......
                                                                                                                                                ...........
                                                                                                                                                                       , --- ......     -.-.-      --.'I. - - .......-        ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -...... 'X..' - - ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --.-.-.-.-.-        I             ......,...' -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........                          ,..........           ",          ......    ,.,, ----               --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X- - - ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                      ....., - .'-                           '........ ......           - - .......          .............                           ...'     .....                                                            .............                     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........  ,'                      .............-- ...........--                                       .............                     ....... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......                               ......
                   .4                                 ,.........,
                                                      .-.-.-           -.-.-                  I.............
                                                                                              X-.*-.*-.*-.*-.'-.'                            .....
                                                                                                                                                ....
                                                                                                                                             ............    --l.,'                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                      .............'....   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............   'I'                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............                     ...........         '                ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............    '.                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            . ...........  '              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............                 ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........    , "I'I              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                      .        ..........         '                  . ............                          ..........                               ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                      .....    '.......' "                    .........       I                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......              '              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......                               ..........      ,                     ............   '              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............                                                    ......
                                 'Br_                 ::::*:*::*::*::*                                 ......
                                                                                              :::::;::::;::::         I                      II..........
                                                                                                                                                ........                                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                            ......                           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........ .............            ............        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '              ........l:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .-.-.-.-.                            ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............    ,                      ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '              .............                   . ......
                                                                                                                                              ......               I                  ...........        ,                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............     '                .............                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........-  ,,I'                 ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............                                   11  '              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......-..
                                                                                                                                                       ... '............'                                                                                                                                             ij .............
                                                                                                       ::::::::::::: .::::::::::.::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......:.....
                                 ,2                         iiiiii ::.......                                                                                                                                                 .............                      ............                                                                                                  ......                                                        .....
                                                                                                     .............                              ........-
                                                                                                                                              .....   ...I
                                                                                                                                                      ....                            .." ''
                                                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                        , .........
                                                                                                                                                                                      -,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......... ,..' - *:::::H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......                                                                I............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..........   - ' I --I .............  ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...........                   ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............  : - ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......-      ,I ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II             ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............     '
                   m 'q            m                  ;........      .                 '             ,,--
                                                                                                     X*
                                                                                                       ............
                                                                                                       ************
                                                                                                     .............           -I
                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                                              .:
                                                                                                                                                .....
                                                                                                                                                   : :
                                                                                                                                                          *..  .                       --
                                                                                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                                                                                       I..   ' ;U
                                                                                                                                                                                               ...  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                           l      '.,        --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::Vq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .........-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ... ......  .  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :             :.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::;,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     : :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...         *1: ,-q:::      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i    i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .'*'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .: . . : ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *i           .               .:::: :-;   -q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :X:: i'...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   --ll              M ii
     -'  4   Z            -      .                                          .--                      .:::::      .-*                            ....           ..                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..  t*l.            -,       :  ..  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                    ............
                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                     .............                            .                                         ,, .....
                                                                                                                                                                                               -....
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..........   I                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............                     ::::::::::::                         ........                               .......                                                 , :.:::.:,:
                                                       .......
                                                            ......          *     *                                                           ..........       ,                                                             ,......                                 :::::                       ::::::                i              ::-:-:-:-:-:                           -X-:-:-X                                                         ......      ..                 ::::::
     '       z             fv C,
                                   0
                                                       :...... .
                                                               ....
                                                       .............
                                                               ..........
                                                                 - -
                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                     .-
                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                              ..........
                                                                                                                                              .......'...
                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                ........ -............
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,.,.....'
                                                                                                                                                                                         .....-....'
                                                                                                                                                                                                   - ''
                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......-...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .........'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...'...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......-...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '...., -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...'....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I               ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::::::::::::        t
                         .h                            X..........
                                                            .........       ,                        ,.......
                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                 ........................
                                                                                                           ....,...                             ............                                               '                 .............                      ....,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.........                         .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......      ,                      ..........         '                   .............                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...                                                        . , :::::z
       tu
                               C3<                     .............
                                                            ............
                                                        .............
                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                       ......                                 .....
                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                   - '.
                                                                                                                                                                                         -...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..             .                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .........   ',       I              .   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........                               .............                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....
                                                        ....... I......                                   ...... ,.....                                                                   ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                            ******
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...... ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............                                                        .. , .....,                         .............                          ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............  ' ro .............:  :                               X'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .....        .i   ------ I      ****
                                    --------- -.........." - --....                                   .-..--.-.-.                                   *;j;*;*;*    .      '                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                          ::: .......                        .......                            ......                            -       -            '              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......            - 0 .......                       -               nnn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......            -----    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .::::Lq:
                                                                                                                                                                                          -."                                ---...-...-------                        -':': llll--- .....-.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .'.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....                                                  .          ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .........                               ......                       ....      -.
                                                                                                            - -                                 ......                                                                                                                                            .......                                       ::tl.41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..                                                                                                               ,:T .*:*:.*:*:.':*'*******
                                                        ............. I'! :-:*-X
                                                        .:::::M*                                             *-.
                                                                                                       :X."....              " .:.:.&           ' * .:
                                                                                                                                              :::                                         .1.-.-I ' - ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                            ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                          ix-ko..                             .....*14, -t *:::,W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .:.:.:.                                  .. , --i ::::::4                       - .*:                  ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'D ::j::           . i           m ii              i;*'tij I, :i:iq                 .*.**  i 00 :                                                        I6
                                                               .                                          :M         *                                                                                                                                                 .u 't-  ,"                 :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .:.:.M               -.                 :::        -.                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::.::M        ::-- ------ -     ::::%s'::            r'j ::xw'! - :...
     60
     I                              v                    .::
                                                         :::::   ::O M-.. ON      ::                                           -              :::::4'-:
                                                                                                                                                  .                                         ..      ..                        ....            :.                                                                               'zt:                                           :::*        *::      'r    t::      -                                                                    4I , , .
                                                                                        cr) ::.:.*        ::::P..,q" :::*:Z; C)                                              -.
                                                                                                                                                                                          :::.::.n   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                           : - ::P%          ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X . L :ii:V- "S -:-:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * R          :                                                   i  i  ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a     ': Ln. ... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :X'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * **:: " z:::                       211,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .:.: I -I :Zn                   :::::    '            M           ::,::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - 'W:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::::*I ---           ,.I- ::--
                                    1-1                  :::i:'<n:
                                                         :::,*.k       ... , --l- :::.*
                                                                                        11 i*11.1'     :::::    P.-4: -4-    Im i:..
                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                             t-                   i; 'C
                                                                                                                                              ::::::   ;"'; 11 o) :::                                .'. cl: .:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                    **                        X, ..                               :::::PS1! :::::...:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                  01 :.::...:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10 .M            . -'.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'S"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .:.:M:: .- :::                                      r" ::::.                         O :::::M
             I                      r-                   :-: ....-   .lc                                  ;:m, -
                                                                                                          .:                                    ::::. . 1 I-)              '4' ::
                                                                                                                                                                           Lo                    .V--. cc -:**
                                                                                                                                                                                                **                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...              m            ..-11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :iiiii'%               C i:::A                        :                   .....: ", -0. :::.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...                                           "             . :::i 9-*.:'  .,' t I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...           0 ::::,    ::.::. ....'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . ,::.'-'                   I,' - :....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......2 1II
                           C;                            I::-  .:.W   O            : L
                                                                                  ;:    f, .....          .:.:.p      :          .            :::
                                                                                                                                              ::.
                                                                                                                                                :...                           .           ::ii
                                                                                                                                                                                           ::M    f. -     :
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .      r'      z  :iii    -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ik..*                "            ..            .i                 .....                               ........     .                      ::::-.l. t'::          D       :::   7         j                       ...-
                                                         .:......
                                                         ::                            ... .                    ....,                         .....                                         ....                  '                                                                                                        ......
                           0
                                                            ::.: .: , :' C:)
                                                              .......                       eu.::p     :::....
                                                                                                           .0                0                  .:.:- -   .         I
                                                                                                                                                                   .1      ,.I             :xr-;.
                                                                                                                                                                                            ..
                                                                                                                                                                                           .-.-.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                ... , .: '-) ............     :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...     -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i ij--*i 0 .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   : :0.- .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0        X..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .  ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '-t ......p.. r-i :.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...........   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::: .. 0 ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .q                     I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .                   o .....    .:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - :: ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....... i  -i        d-         :::*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *-X0    -.,'.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ".......  :1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                       .'...........                            ...........         '                      ...........    "                     ......! ...........                ............                                                                                              .............                                                   ......                           .......
                                                               .........
                                                              ......   '...'.'                         .............
                                                                                                       .......   '.....                       I..-    .......                              ...     - .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............                             :'.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....   -"      ,              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -......      ,...                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...           '                 :...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....m I-                        ,,- ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....-                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........     ,
                                                              .........     ,'                                                                  ............        '                      ...........                                                                        " .....    -        .......    ...        I  ------         -                  -                -l.,-                          ......                                      ..      ....         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -               X
                         -- --------      - ..nn                   '........71'- - ...........            ......      '-                             . ... -
                                                                                                                                                "-....,
                                                                                                                                                .............                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                           ............    'I                 ............--- .........                   ....'...                 ......' * -') ......                   :..-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                  ......-                          ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..             '                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . -                    co ,............t
                                                         ::.:.:.
                                                         . '....'    '.v ") ::.::,*O*                      ......                                                ,                          - T. f'l :::i:.. , U'l ;i:::r                                                   ."SI Lo :::.....' ",
                       t                                 *i*ii                                                               co ::::M                                      m ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                   *: _j :::                X", : 11                                                                    -- :                           :V.., L                                 :::-R.: al ..                  :::::-.. 0 X.:                  .... .I: O
                                                                      1 .: r, :.:.:0                   ::::::;    '.i: f-l   U- :::::m                                                                            C., :::::.., 17 :::::.                                zzi ' o z:::              ,::::::q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ... -ky.    i               r- ::....W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lr)               ......: Wll    " ....         -. - f'4 :.:::)o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :-:-                                                t, :.      ..:.:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :,:
                           'L
                                        'D .. -.
                                        Ul :::k          :..  ...-I a)
                                                              ...          ,            -1             .:::;.. ;*k
                                                                                                            -      '  .       , -i                 .. 4:.*: r,
                                                                                                                                                ::::'.O
                                                                                                                                                :::N
                                                                                                                                                   ..-                     cc
                                                                                                                                                                    : 6 :.......-
                                                                                                                                                                                           ...
                                                                                                                                                                                           ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                             .:'N
                                                                                                                                                                                            ..
                                                                                                                                                                                            X,     il*l
                                                                                                                                                                                                     .      : In    -             A    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .   -  -         I ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ili. ..::..    :'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .'   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..     :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..> W .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::   .- ....' 6 .::.::M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .. . I                                 .                            :::k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..'.I:- 6 :.::             .. .*.: -N..I....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .4                         ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ... .:::X..'   ..)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                         :::'o                    * ..:60 :::..:              . . 0 :::::,M
                                                                                                       :::::*.,a.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . ..........         '                            ..*',: 0 ............                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:   . :                . :-:---.-,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..:.P.                         .X......l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .::                                ....P               6 t::::::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...
                          Ac 0) "T ....                       ...  '...'I..
                                                              XP -.:
                                                                                                                             ': :::-:-:-;-
                                                                                                                                                  ::::P:
                                                                                                                                                                    :                       :i*M 0 :i:::K>.*'
                                                                                                                                                                                           ::.'.......
                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........     '                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...    ...       ''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0 ......... -.-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -.-.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .............                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .:::    M....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .: 0 ............    .:*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............                    ......r, ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............                    :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............                            ..........  '
                                                              ::::                                        ::
                                                                                                       :.............
                                                                                                          ::::  0.'
                                                                                                              -....                             :........                                  ............                                                                                                                                                                       ............                    ......                          ......               ,I ............               '
                          i
                            -
                                    Q- > ............                    ...
                                                              ............
                                                              - - ''               '                    *******
                                                                                                          ...... ............                    ......
                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                 ...-  ......    w' I
                                                                                                                                                                    '                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                           .............    "                 I.. ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..... ' .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '....."                        .-      ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....   . .         i                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                          ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...... .............           .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......     - ''I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                        .............                                                                      .............                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............      '                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .............     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '             -   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - .......                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                      ............                    ......                          ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......     '..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I............                      .   ...........  ''
                                                         .........-
                                                         .............            .''                   .............                            ....     .....
                                                                                                                                                 ..........         '                        .....  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                           I............                      . ...........     '.'                  ......                        ...........          'i                 .............                      ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .........   ' '               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .                                                                 ............
              Z- '- '- '- - ........                           . v ......
                                                               .
                                                              X"....
                                                                                                        ........
                                                                                                        .........-. ' ------
                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                        .......  '......
                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                                                                  .....
                                                                                                                                                                    . - ", -....
                                                                                                                                                                                            -- '.'.'.
                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                     -....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,4-.1-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - -                          - n ,' - - ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..........   ,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .. "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o l I, ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...... ...... ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : X:- C) i:::( .li H i:i:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......   .'v ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ":. : lj' .:j:'..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t'""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...... .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !::-:-'          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,    "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -.-.-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....)-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                              .::W
                                                               .:.:                :    '-              :::::: *ft.', -       -I
                                                                                                                              W                   ::::M
                                                                                                                                                  *4."         ..i  :      '                *:'m   .':            00 :j:j::          ;.;ii               , -       i*:    MW              't :i*-
              z              I                                :*if                      ,zr :::                                                                             ,, ::::::              W. ,&           I, :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * *: 'r *i::M: ' i*: ..": r' ::::::u.: r4 :::::M":H :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N                                                                                                                                                                              N..* :. '; .:j:j:.: W ::j:;                                            . >'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .'..'   *:
                                                                       30]                              X*                                            , * M_ ::::::N':!                                                        :::::m                                                                    .                                                                              ,' M                 :::::
              it            C            w :::::               . .."Z-. '-f :49
                                                              ::::,                                       ..... *             n) XV
                                                                                                                              ,-q                 .::: O.:     ,           'TI *.:.*.*      i*:ir l -;t                        i*i-.*I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.:                M *::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -- *X.N-     :::0l*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                 - :::::W-  ...Ao.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               un ::::::O:         " - cn ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ID :::::01":       . ',:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::i::)               ' ::..       ...M               14 lptll M ..'.t:%
I-                          r.1 -                                                                                                                 :*
                                                                                                                                                  M                 .                               ..             ,                   *,.- - -.-                    . : -.--:  *':                :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ,: C          W .j.       :::,  .:_.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....       .          .        .  . .....  I                   :-:-.-:-N-6 X.X.-                                        . :.*.:.
                            ci a rw-                          :,...*  .9 . 0 . ::::     'n              ::::::k'i
                                                                                                        -::.:.R q                                    *                     -- ::.M          ::*           1:j                  .-..-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :-                                  ..:.%-                                d                                 :Xa: C:) ::: :                                                   ::::                             :::Z ;                0           :            .:

         WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                  n - .......                     .....,.- , -::':                                          - 1.......                                  - .............                                      -               --------            -                    -------                        -------              ------                   -------         -- . ,........                           ..... .......                               , llll-- ......
                                       I r, .............
                                                          ......
                                                          ............
                                                       :::::                                     ..........
                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                     ,,.........,
                                                                                                                                            .....                          ......                                   ......              I,, -------  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :X.,   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,            .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...         . m ........                ,,-....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::: . :. W.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::.:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,...,-,                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :;,ii u,:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......,....'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....                            ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......            I
                                             O x....   ::::.:..        .            v)        :  ........
                                                                                              .::*  .-
                                                                                                    **
                                                                                                    X                     "0          X.
                                                                                                                                     :::X.2
                                                                                                                                      ...  n-   ::.:.;:
                                                                                                                                                    : :       .4
                                                                                                                                                              , ,         :::
                                                                                                                                                                          :::::..
                                                                                                                                                                          .M               . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                  ..-- , .:.:.:   :            r   ::::::             :                      ::       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .....             'I       .:..."         .                                                          X-, :. O                          - ...            *  - C.--       m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0 .:::4,n.        -v.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :.,.;*,**,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::                 : ' l 1::*V.. . ':** 1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::::::W                               i*:u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C):::::U,$.          M:
                                             11,                       *f..:        "rl':.:.:.M  -                .       -l-i:::::N .          ..  :         -
                                                                                                                                                              f1l)        :::                                      :::.S;.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::::W            . CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::             I :::::  .X    M                                       ,             11,71,  i    i  i t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.                    ,71,     :::W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .::::r.,*::                             :    A... S
                                             ,i :::M
                                             0)           .::.
                                                          :.. : ,0 ::**                          .....
                                                                                                  ....   ,I.. %,  . 0 ......         ::: .1         : ,l) ::::::M:         :-.:
                                                                                                                                                                           ...    ..:*. : .c              ,C:::::   .:.:.M.      ,:: - ,n .:::..                - : r,A :::.:::i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :.:.o                                iifx*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . *.:  .,: 1,            :::       , IM .,.>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..,!,, "",::%                           :-::k             .k::. C'-       r,;:....,        -*-.1 CKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P,..               L'I ...  i::  il,O  R..l , ,i l ,*                       .. 11        I-1 V              2**       .
                                                , ...
                                                       :::::
                                                             :     A , . -! -; , ,N ::Xp,
                                                                   ": ,4 ::::::P.,                                   i ,-; -:::::.Ml
                                                                                                                                        :.:* : LO
                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                              "' 0*.......
                                                                                                                                                              - :::::.
                                                                                                                                                                          X.:              ..: 0 :::::X
                                                                                                                                                                                         O.: - :::::H':N :::::"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::                    :          f"I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,Z;.    Xm :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...  :0      ,,: 01:::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .. : -4 :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .        ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .:.:.T     ,k:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -      .   0CD:...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .4: '! iiii?.-'4          ...       ::- k,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -   .k    : lz ii::..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,  :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..N                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,V.I: m ::::,:.,m iiiiv.--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::       .                   o .I -? i...                                       . 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  il-..**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::i..4:                                         .. *-, -t - .:.:.:.*..,     *....,.                   17 X.: i... ii .                                   . . *. ,- :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....                                   :::.-.-."...I-:. "4                 :........l.XX                     .........-                 ,-I       ..........        ,
                                             14 ..:........  ii .'41   .                                    ,,-
                                                                                                              ., i1                   ..... X....
                                                                                                                                            ::;ix.                        :::.,..4:
                                                                                                                                                                          .....
                                                                                                                                                                          .........     . . . ".. .........         .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........            I ,4               XX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....-*4.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :N          ..                        ".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :::   ::: "..-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...  . ,-i            . ..%*4   :.:.-: ,- :::                  ...               . ..,                '.....                               :::: :Xq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .....     ...,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .. - :::           .. .*..*:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............                           .. &..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
       'a                                                 :.:.:.:.:.: Z:::::::::::.
                                                       ::::::::::
                                                        :::::::::::::                        Z:::::::::::::!                         X     . ...
                                                                                                                                              -- ,
                                                                                                                                     ::::...,..,..,..*,
                                                                                                                                             ........                      ...... .........
                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                          .............                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........   ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :::::::::::::                   ::::::.-::..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -X        .:.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :.:.:.:.:.:,            ,              '.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..............      ,                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ............. ......              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                   ....                      Z:::      *.*.*.,.:                      .......
                                                                                                                                     .............    I
                                                                                                                                                      ,                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                           ............                                                                      .............                        ....... .......                  ......                   I              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......                 :              '.............                       .............                     .............                        .............
                                                             .....           I                    ..:.:.:.:..: .............
                                                                                                  ......                                              ,                   .....         ,....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......                 I.......         .*::::::                  . ......                          - ,"""-                                           .                                -          nn .......                           n ------                     - --.......... ,"
         m 's M                              r"I          .*.,.,.,.,.,
                                                        ...........                                                                           ;:5t:                               ......       ...                       .                                                              U, *U -...                                                    ,                                                                                                     X*
                                                   ,. ::.:--k:
                                                        :::N                        "I ......    :::
                                                                                                 :::               1 a!              -:::::                     o          X.                   .         1-1 :.*,*.R*P*.l:                          r- I*                                                       ,,        L                                                                                               I , .:             L!) ::::0, , : , r ::*W                           . .
                                                                   .....                     ,X M. :.                     ,.7" ::::::.-             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..:: : , :::::.,W:: Ln :::::g.,, Lf) :::
                                                                                                                                     """, cn :::
                                                                                                                                               *.*.'*                                             :       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X                           Ln      :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -  **             C)                        -. r,- , ::.....          'A ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..,                   'CrIli lg.k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - ....'k                              C,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..4. ,: ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::::.
        0-     't                            0) :::       .:.:',.';,
                                                                   .,., : ,, .:.:.:M             ......
                                                                                                 ::::     - . .') ::::::             X.:                                   ::::
                                                                                                                                                                           ""     ..::ell...      : 1" :::::                                                                                                                                *!t                   -,,, V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...                     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::. .. q :-.:                    .... .                                                               ...
                     a;-M                    M '.     I:::*
                                                          ......
                                                             .::w      *:           In           ***
                                                                                                  ..       ...
                                                                                                            .              -          ..llS.,*.                ,-I         :::    . ..:      ",   :       i-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :i" - ,-, ::j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "I      :     A        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..-, , :::::                        I-i--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .,: "IN X: .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -              i                                                                                        .::                      :: *:                        :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...W:: 00 :::::4,4.                                     :
        3: -            w                             ,::::X1-,
                                             Le)Z::::,:M                   *. m *ilN i , *i: *. , n i:.:.
                                                                   . : 'D ::: .                                                  . ::: *.                                  .:..         I . VI            00 i:      ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::::                   I I ...                 P                   . M: 4.. rl .:X.8 .;:                                                     Cc :.:::::R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::::::..              - CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .w:           CO.::::::::.  M ::. F :::*M : N :.
                                                                                             i:..........                                                                  *::                                                                                                                    ...                              ..                                              ..                                  ..                                   ..             :                 X                                  X
                           .1                CN,:::::,..
                                                                   .,*. : ,
                                                                                                  ::
                                                                                                  .. MN                                                                    *...,*.       .*...l.:.
                           ,                 ,_4 ,,::
                                                      ,....
                                                          .......;.                              :::             ,                    ...
                                                                                                                                 I ......
                                                                                                                                     :::::M                   tD. *::,..                                  ,, :::::            .. :                           ::::::::                        : x:
               Z        2                             ,.::...:. .q
                                                        .............  ..* :              .      :::,
                                                                                                 .:.:.,..'.
                                                                                                  .....    " ...
                                                                                              :'...'.......,                          :::
                                                                                                                                     :::
                                                                                                                                     ........
                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                 *
                                                                                                                                                ?-q.
                                                                                                                                     .............             ,-.q        :.     ::: .jt.4.:
                                                                                                                                                                           ............
                                                                                                                                                                           ............
                                                                                                                                                                                             *.           I-A :::    .......  ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,:::.. :.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .::::..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .                               :::::*         **                        :::::....::                             :::::::::::::
                                                          ......
                                                        .......                                  .......
                                                                                               .......                                ......                                      ...... z............
                                                                                               '.......'.....                        ,...........                          .............                                                    I,,              .............                                 ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......                                     , :::::::::                                                                                                ......          II,                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                        .............
                                                          ......
                                                        .............                             ......
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                               '.............                      .............
                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                        ......      ,                       .................
                                                                                                                                                                          .............                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............                         . . ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .*.,.:: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....                                   ::::::::::::: ..............          ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I,            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
        t, -- - --- ----             - ...   - X
                                                        .......
                                                          ......
                                                          ......
                                                                  .....
                                                                    -'. --                   ..
                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                 --                    --
                                                                                                                                      .....
                                                                                                                                      - Xl---
                                                                                                                                              ,......                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                  -,                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......"*'   "         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 --.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -.....-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......                     -            .......:.:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           --.-.-.-.-..   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .:.:.:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -..........             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............      ,,                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............        ,
                                                        ...-.--.-...                             .............
                                                                                                 .............                        ......,..,                          ...........             .                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                            .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ............                         ..........
         i                                              .............                                                                ..............                       .............                              ............                            .......                              .......                         .......
                                                        ........
                                                          .....
                                                        ............                             ......
                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                 ...........      ,I                  ...
                                                                                                                                      .......  --                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                          ......                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......                                  ......                                  .......                              - :-:.X                         k                   i
         0 tZ           a                                 ......
                                                        .............
                                                        .............
                                                        .......
                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                  ...........
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                  ......                                ..........
                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                          .......               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....... .....                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......                                                                                                              .........                      .............
             t = 2                                      :...,..*..,..*..*.
                                                             ......
                                                        .............                                   , ...,
                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                 ....
                                                                                                 .............                       ..............
                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                     .............  ,,                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                          .............         ,                    ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                            .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,...........                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                            ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........                               :                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -.....-.                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                       -
                             m               '-f
                                                          ......
                                                        .............
                                                        ::::::;        .*3              -
                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                 :**-           ,J:
                                                                                                                 -         ,
                                                                                                                                     ..............
                                                                                                                                      0 -
                                                                                                                                      .*:       ,.*:           ,-'
                                                                                                                                                                          ..............
                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                          i::::H        :         ::  I   -I         ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *:.       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........... *..              H        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,.......'...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :i*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........   I                - z:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...'.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,.i            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::::I              *          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........     .                        :*:*i:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :j:::j:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......T-I....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i::::::k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :j            k* :*:*:,:*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::::  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::::'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '...
         Zz,- Z                                  , .............
                                                          ....       ::.. . .......              :.....
                                                                                                  ::.:.:.,I.:    :.%,         I       .X.:.X
                                                                                                                                      ......        : I          I        .:.::::::k,.
                                                                                                                                                                          ...........
                                                                                                                                                                          ..                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                I              I     :-:-:-:-I:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                          t    X.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...... V       :           ,         ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......:   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..........           .             I      :::::*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .....                          .     :::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......            :        ,         ......        .,.::             ..    :-:  K       :           ,     ::::::
         0 ,v 0                                           ......
                                                        ............. .............
                                                        .......                                   ......                                .......
                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                      ...-......
                                                                                                                                      ............ .. ,                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                          ....        ,...... .........              ......         ,                        ....      ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .'........., ............                ......                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                             .                                      :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :                                                                            ...   ..                        ..   ........
             14n= .                                     ...........
                                                        .............      ,                     .............
                                                                                                 .............                        .............                                                                  ............                            .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............i:.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .... :-:-*-:-:-:-:                                                     ,...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..... ::::::::::::::
                                                                                                  ..................                                  ,I                  .............                              ............                            .............                            ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
        ,Z:c                                            .......
                                                          ............
                                                        :.*.*.*.*.*..
                                                          .............                          .......
                                                                                                 ...........
                                                                                                 .............                          ......
                                                                                                                                      I...........,
                                                                                                                                      .............                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                          ............
                                                                                                                                                                          .'..........,           I,I                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............    ,                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......                                   .......                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......                         k:.... .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '.............                        ...            ...
                       <                                .....                .                                                        ......                              ......                                        ......
               ----------------
              ---                         ------          .....
                                                        .............        .------.......      .............
                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                 .*
                                                                                                  ----------
                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                      --*-------       I                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                          ......
                                                                                                                                                                          I.,.........,
                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                          :......              : -----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .-.............      ,                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - - -............. .... .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                      ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...........        .1 ::::::::::::::X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ".'.. !:j:::          m:::::::::::::::j::: :::::::::::::    *X    .......     ,                 ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :::*:*""**:
                                                        .............                             ..                                  .............                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,       .........                     .............                         .......                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :-......                              .............
                                                * .............                                  .............
                                                                                                 :::::    M                (1):::::                            III ,.......,:::::M.:                      " :::':.:)*   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......   W* , *::.::.,W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......         : ...       N- :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......                             :.:A': , ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......                                       .....    N-. .I " .:......                                               ............                              ... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
      ,                                                 ::::::t          ...:.: ,--I                                                        :.k.,*:                                        .*. "It.::::                                                                                               ..::..'-..,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -::j:   Oj .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "- ::::                                -- .:*     :::..                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :.. ...: ,N, :::::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....*...jf lif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .' t-,                .: - " ::::::O                                      ..
                                                 o ::::::      Xw,
                                                        ::::::N': ,3,
                                                                                     i ::         ..
                                                                                                 :::::.W
                                                                                                            -Zr
                                                                                                              -    :* F.,: .:::A
                                                                                                                           f")
                                                                                                                                           .:
                                                                                                                                      :::::M
                                                                                                                                                       : D :::
                                                                                                                                                       :       "N     .
                                                                                                                                                                          . :::g..       1'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          IZT        :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *.             : 0- :j:j:.,O         -        : ko        W          :::::r4           :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I- ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . .'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . .- 11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -.ff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;...     I       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    . 0 .::::US:    -.-.-.-..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::::q.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g , !, i , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .:::M,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::::  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,:,;        i       ,-,! i &   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :::::::IZ3::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f, :
                                                                                                                                           (J.. *:::. , ,,, . .......                                     LD :...            g                       '.           ::. ':
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :::m                              ::: :8 .*: W :j:j:::V                      I *                %-             : ::                        14 ::::***:IN            *        rl-                                                  ....            cq         :.:.:.
                                                                                                 .:.:.0 :                             :.:.:                                                                                                                                                -i *::.                                                                                                  :        't                                --              : :.W,i r,                    ::r .,.                            ...      ,
                                              .-, :::.:*M,                           r', :::::,O:: 00 k:::::5"l: IP :::::M M :::::*..q                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                                                                ,-
      z
                                              u> t:i*.O.
                                                                                                                  -                ,
                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r.               cid *i*.;kit-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              , ,r :::                     . ':    ,:      JI, ::::::,..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'N ::::::. .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C :::::%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::Im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .N.* I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::. *., :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I--T .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           , .                              ....   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rld j:j::9.:! rH :*Xq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r ******...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :::" ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3* :
                                                      t..:,....
                                                              :: $N
                                                               ...   :.::1.
                                                                                     C :i*::&
                                                                                                 :::::.,.\.: M :::..*..
                                                                                          . -.-.-.-.-.           ,-.
                                                                                                                            C14 j:j: :
                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                 I .-.-.-.-.-. ,.:             N I :M
                                                                                                                                                                            :::::,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                k:
                                                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1)       i X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::::::-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I''.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ; '.. .XA.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :,         :            --j .::   :::% :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -43. :::ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .:.:.: I.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            m.'..                 'N ......  :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n       : i.:H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "                 ,         : :::..::        , I            . -.-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - ,..:              -N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r,  , .:.:.::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............
                                              ,                        *                                         *                              *                                        ...                    I                                            ..........   l.                 .      ..:.:....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .. .q:   ..  1.           . .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...           ,                     .         X......,                                                                :::::.-, I ,
          ,v 2                                        z   :::::...
                                                             .....,..
                                                        ...........                  ,
                                                                                         -1 .::  :::* '.4::
                                                                                                  ..... ... ,
                                                                                                 .............       ,
                                                                                                                            -i :::::.
                                                                                                                                      ,"
                                                                                                                                               H*
                                                                                                                                               **.*x
                                                                                                                                      ............
                                                                                                                                                               ,-           .::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                             ......                 "I
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I   I-i ...       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .J:               '" ...  ..... ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :.:.:*.4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..........   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :::: :: .,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............          ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "          :::..4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -,.j :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ii r Doi:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..............                        ......  t I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ::::  ':,..,S:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *.*.*.*..,:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .:.:....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :.:.:.:.:.:.:
        'a
                     "I',,',',,, "Ill- ,...........,
                                                          .............
                                                        .............
                                                                   *...
                                                                              ,
                                                                                                 ...'.........,
                                                                                                 .....,,,,
                                                                                                 :,..........,      ,,
                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                        ....
                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                              ........
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                             ...........
                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                             ....             - ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .*.,.*.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :.:-:.:.:.:.             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...     ..... .,.,.,- ,               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....-....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :.:.:.:.:....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .'..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , -: .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....
                  ----                                  .............         ,                   ............                        ............. ............
                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                             ...........              ,               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *"     ***               0          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :XkN:                  V!     :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::O     ...    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -t X.:-Xv ............. ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ")         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X       N .,                      .......                                  ......           ,-           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .:.:.:.:.:.:.
                                                                    *A**     *:      LI)         :::::.,M           *I      "         **:*'***
                                                                                                                                      ::::."    ..
                                                                                                                                                 4             It            :::::                    :   If          :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...                                   ...      ,  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .,...                                             ,                       -'r-.
                                                                                                                                                                                  ...                                                                                                                                                                       1
          Z',s -                              ,,
                                              C.        .:::*::*:                                 ......                                                                                 W                                    N               :       't      .:.:.N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::  :  .     ,     -,     P-,        ::     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...     ..             .::::                                      :::.                   *                                                                ...     .           .,.    Ix -        .       0,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .             ::: i-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::
                                                        *::im                 :      rn           :    ::Q          ,       0         :::::     *A'              D           :::::m                       N           :::::    .. -. m.i                     ]    iffl                   "I         .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :-     , .1,                  -                                                                                 ......         .,                             *..'t              -Q     :  :' . .S      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 'n Z.:.:.:,O.,               ::.:.:.....:
        0- &-l                                "'        :-:.:.
                                                        :-:.:-*;
                                                          :::  "..q 00               -
                                                                                                 .:.:..5a ,-j :.:::.M
                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                 .:.X        0              ,           .. . : r.,
                                                                                                                                      :-::ji*n*                r             .::.::.
                                                                                                                                                                              :::j:..    M    .., "!1111.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ':         o      :j:::                   :         tl   :: i: i: m                             . ..::::.lMl:          1r;     ....::::w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::ka                        "          ::: ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .:.:.,M         ..':. It :::*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    j::::k!: -q:::::...                           . ljl:::::::H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...                           .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
        0- - w         10                     ,D1 :::,.-     .A ."1 "4
                                                          ....                       'i :.::N    ::.:.*         - : al ::.::1.4:        . .. . zy :::::...                               .A..'. ll ::::A : , .:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..      -                       :::fo. "r, :::             M            :: :: ,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......                                           *.. m :j::.?...:                        -. n :::Q,,, ,-q,:::.:H                              n , ..... ,-I ::::                               .. "
                                              L     V- - .                                        ......
                                                                                                  .-:.:N I W X:                         :.:.- :                  , ::*            ::R , .-I :::::.,N                    --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .11, . .:.k)z                                 :::                    ,-. :i:::N                                                        ..                              .:..,:  .                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ... .                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 'S. I- ,*,::,                   :*,...*:                                   ,, , Z::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...                                                                                                                                           ......
          1:     n                            ,-- ,::::::--                                      :::: ...                                     1: ,: ,,
                                                                                                                                                                              ...........
                                                                                                                                                                              :::                                                                     lj .:::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . Ol       .., , :::::                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::....  . .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I....           co :::      ::9                           t i......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ---               :M lp ......                   i:::A                           ',,::   :M          >*: L'in i:::     .:j:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i :::.:"                       ,x*.
                          w                                                          ,- .......   .::      01.
                                                                                                                  k*l n .:.:,           ............
                                                                                                                                        .. .
                                                                                                                                      ......,...,                             ... X                         Ll ::>      ::* .                                   ...........                -4 ..... X........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,.,1 -                :::                                                                                  " -                                                                                                     ..:: .1
        ;        6                                    I.X.:-
                                                          ... ...... .., ,.I .....                :!X.....-
                                                                                                        iit-l               H         .........-
                                                                                                                                      :::::.iv.q:                   . .........   .....
                                                                                                                                                                              :::::*,*i         ,I             -. :.:.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...    *14  *                 - ...,....'..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::        *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :.:..-,-*,                          :::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -- I .............    .q                  ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::::::::::::::                  -1 ::::,,3* - :::::::::                                                                  .   .
                                       tt
                                                      .x...k;
                                                          .......                                               ..                    ......                                  I   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......                              ....... ....  ..                          ......                                ......                                                                                                              .....                                                           ...    ::iii      i       -       i   i    i:.
                                                        .......                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...-   -.-.-..  ,,                    ............                   .:.:.:.:.:.                               .......                               ,...........                          :::::::::::::                   : .'.*.'.*.*
                          f:                            ...........
                                                              ...
                                                          .....       - ',I                                                           *.......
                                                                                                                                       .,.*.*.*.*.*.    I                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                              ..........- , -,                        ......   I,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...          ...        ,                 -..-.-...-                          .............                  :::::m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............    '...                      ...'...'.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,....,....,                            I............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,...........
        =                                                     ....                                                                      -.........
                                                                                                                                       ,......,,.  ,.,,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X',*i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......           I,                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......                                                                                                                                              .....   ,....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....                   *::::::::::;                          .::::::::::::
        .
                                                          .W.........,
                                                              .......... -
                                                              .....                         ,    ......
                                                                                                        i l:t
                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                       -.-.-.-.                        ..........
                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                        ......     .                          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                              .....     ,....,, I
                                                                                                                                                                                        ....
                                                                                                                                                                               *44" 111-11."' ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......       ,..,'.I                  i,:,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......          ,                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......                       ............ r, .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ------.....                           ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......,',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::T.,.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..... xm.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,...m --- .............--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          . ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......-.-       ..   --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *,.:.:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         --.-.-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .X, ",-,-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .,    -, -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                       n ,-                               -----
                                        I4                ,......
                                                              ......
                                                                  ..........                       .....
                                                                                                   ..........
                                                                                                 ...........
                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                  ]                            ii i                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .....         *,:.                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......          I                     XIZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -....-....I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...... z ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......                                ...........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::..      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::::: 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::.:.:.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :::::::::::::,
                          =
                                                           ............
                                                                   - *"I
                                                           .'.......-
                                                           X
                                                           ...........
                                                                              ,
                                                                                                 ,.........,
                                                                                                 ...........      ,                    .............    ,                         , ....- ,,
                                                                                                                                                                               ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......                                 ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,                   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............          -       ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '.             .............     .1                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .....-...-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  , , .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...-.-.....-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '..........", I.,                     :::::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::::::
          rz                                               :::::::::::::                         :::::::::::::                              .'.*.*.*.*
                                                                                                                                       :..,..*..*..*..*..*,                    ...*.'.*.'.*'                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......,                          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............  ,,                      ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............  ,               -...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............                              .............                                                                  ......g '...                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,...........                             x....  x x Ij
          0      0                                                .....
                                                               ......
                                                           .:.:.:.:.::
                                                                                                   - ...
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                 '...........
                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                                        ,                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                               .............
                                                                                                                                                                               ......                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........    ,, ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6) gp      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,..........'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,                .....           ,                    .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........'...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............              q .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         : ..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::.:.:.*.*.*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::::::::A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...i
        -Z        r       -                                .......                                  .....
                                                                                                   *****          :i                   X    .:-:.:.:-:                         .:.:.:.:.:,                              ....-....                             ..........,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............                                                                                                                                              -... ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :-......
                                                           .............                         ...........
                                                                                                   :::                      -           ......
                                                                                                                                       :.:.:.;Zw        I                      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                  x      ,-,  .4 .                      ... -.-.....                                                                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::)          .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i:. :                     "I : M.Z                                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .::::: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M t *.*.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
          Z,                                               :....                  : , :.x
                                                                                  V              - : ,-
                                                                                          . :,::::::.:X                                 ...:::.,:!
                                                                                                                                . ...........                                  :::::::4;:                             .::::::::k::                              : :,.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::::,... ::: , C ..........      :::::.::,:::                   ::::::::5                                                                                                     , ............
                                                           :XXXXX'.
                                                              ..........,
                                                                                                 ::,.*.,..
                                                                                               I.........
                                                                                                    .-. ,
                                                                                                                                       ...........
                                                                                                                                        ::::     ...
                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                        ,, 1
                                                                                                                                                                               ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                  .....
                                                                                                                                                                               .......          11    ,               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .........                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,, I               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ::.*.:.*.*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *:** 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            j                :-:.:...,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * ****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...............           LWI)       ......... ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , g-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          . ....-.-....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........     ,,              ,:::::::::::j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......                              :.:.:.:.:.:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::::::::::        1
                      M.                                   .............                            ...                                .............                           :::....                : 1 .......       .....                                 ......            I                   .......                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                              00 .....
                                                           .......
                                                                  .....
                                                              ............
                                                                           1.                  . ....
                                                                                               i ...
                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                          ***                          ,...........,
                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                       ......... , I
                                                                                                                                                                               .........
                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                               .....-....
                                                                                                                                                                                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                I.. ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::i-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :. ; *.                         1 1 , ::::: l                                 .:.:.:.:.:.,*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *:::j::::j                    -: -: i                                  :::::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...... - .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,         ',) :  .. -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::::::::.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,1
                                                                  -*-'-*-    .,.                   .,***
                                                                                               ..:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                 -...        ,                         .......
                                                                                                                                        ..........                             .........-
                                                                                                                                                                               .....            I.                     :X ***                                      - **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............                          .......:.: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .....                          XX            *:                        :::::::::::::                           .......                              .............
         'C 0                                           ,::..:.:.:.:.:.
                                                               ....
                                                                                   .....            ....
                                                                                               :..........                                               I                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                  ............  l.                 t::::.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I::::     .........                          ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......'.....                                                           : :  *.......                                                                   ......             I                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *  *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :.:.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .:.:.:.:.*.:
       --------------------               I---
                                                              .......
                                                 141 ....."I"..,.....                              -
                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                 ,  ....
                                                                                                                ,. .......             .   -
                                                                                                                                        *********l-- .......
                                                                                                                                        .....                                         ----- ...... .---.-                     .: .: .:.:                      I   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - ... -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::::;:::;.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::::::::::      I    -   t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --:.::::::::;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::    *.&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .:.:.:.:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..               ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N"N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .- I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -               -               * ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :*::****,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r       ' -.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . ......... .-             -----         .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ............     *:
                                                           ..........      ".                       ....i                            I............                             .........-                              ...-..... ..I                                                                   ......                                                                                                        .:.:..<-....                         .......                        ............       ,
                                                -- I :-    :::::, z* *: 1 1 :........               X  :                    .- .::.:::  ........
                                                                                                                                               N., : li .:.:9W                 :::.....             I.: Ln ..:....      ::.:*;.*,*.:U') ::.:.Ol: 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......                                 ::,: .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::::,-                   -, :::::o       .                   D' X:         :.:.,'-, . ,M, :::, **, .-.-, :j:j:.,..*.* - ::::*:N                                                               ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _.               1             ::::m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                              ,7) .::::.W     ..             *. Q0 :::
                                                                                                   ...          **
                                                                                                                                        X* I C1.1X.- * CN                                                                                                                         : iL)                                                                                                                  :           :                         ,
                          P.                  (n.          :::::,N            :        w           :::.,   ,                                                                   ::: *                                    ,                                       X
                                              cli          :*W                         -           :..:..R                              ::::.   ...             I              :::::
                          V                   ,--I : : :*           ,& ,               I- ....      ...... . :I . , ::::*                      -I,                                             *I                        - ...                                       .
                -            C;               It X.           X .                      0 ....      ::::                      . ::.:..   ::: '. I -i :::                        .i-:.--                      0) .:::i .I.                              T-4 ::: *. :                                    :::::                          ::::   *-                               :::::* *. ;                             :::::..I                             :::::.                          .::::                                  .:.: .
                                                                                                                                                                                                       I rl :::::$O                                             ::::**....,*:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ",                  '.' :::::A
                                              ,-i :::w        X....., -                "( ...       .. . :
                                                                                                    ....
                                                                                                   ::.:),-I                            :::::.
                                                                                                                                        .:
                                                                                                                                        .::
                                                                                                                                        ... ...:....:,:
                                                                                                                                       :.:.:.P           :
                                                                                                                                                                MI ::::::      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                  ..      r ., .                 .      .........11            : rN :::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .           0                                : * ..*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::                  ,- :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .: .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::.::A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D. ......-  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .. ..I...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :..  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .X.-i                   6 :::        . _ 'i tj, ::::,*:! "I :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........                                                               ..::..)     '
                                              ,-j .:.:.,m  ::: -                       0           :.::::::
                                                                                                          .....
                                                                                                          .....                                                 --
                                                                                                                                                                I   i          ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                  .::          .,           0 :::.::.O                        .*: Iq :::.::.          O.: C :::                       .:..:.q               ,I       .:.:.p .. .                   C- :::...       --. o\ l                     4 :::  "...0 :.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..::                                 :....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :::.::   -'..    I o            ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .::*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....    ..:, 'n .:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..                             ::*N   .. .*:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........      ,
                                                                                                    ......           ,                  ...        ..  . .                        .     .       .     .                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......                                .......                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..........i                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                   - >                                     .............
                                                           ......     ...-.
                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                   .,.......,..,                       i   i:..
                                                                                                                                       ,,........,
                                                                                                                                        .......                                I  ,......,..
                                                                                                                                                                                  .......           *                   ,..........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .*..........,                         ::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :        .::                          :-    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......  -                          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..     .....         ,I             ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......         ,                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......        ',               ..........                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                           ............                             *'****
                                                                                                   ...........  ****"                  .*.*.*.*.*.*.
                                                                                                                                       ***
                                                                                                                                       ,...........,                              .*.*.*.*.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                      *  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                  ............                          ......                 I                  :..........                       .............                    .............                           :.:.:.'.'...:                           .:.:.:.:.:.:.                         .............                   ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......                                .....'......,
               -
              i ----------------         I------           -**'******               -                                                                                                                                    ......                                    .....          I                   .  . . . .    .                ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .                                       -            ...                                                               ......                         .....                                 .......
        ----                                               .............
                                                           .............                            ......
                                                                                                        ,I'...
                                                                                                   ......    ,   **
                                                                                                               ,",                      ......
                                                                                                                                       ...........  ',   I-                       ...     ....-,-
                                                                                                                                                                                  - ,.......,                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......     ...         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........   ,...,                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ............                       z      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......                   -          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............         ,--                   nn,, --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                -.nn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....           - ------       I ......      7
                                              "4 ::::H                                             i .                                                                                                                   .......              .                          ,                                   ...                     - ....                               z::::::Ov-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ***** t') 1:::::W                   ......                               .: ....                          ...U' 1 Uj .:.:.m                   :::
                                                               .... . : "I"            W X.-A6      .                        I- :                                                                                               'i,                   -,I ::::: ,.                        IX, ::::::.O.* M ::::::..kr,:                                                                      ..                      :::. :                                %:.:M             : GI ..:::**
                                                           :.. Ri        .                         ...                                 -::V .                   ,:                            .             -,,                  A                            *::.,                                      .                                           ':                                                                                        M                                   CO :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .. **: W                                  A .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . *'.'..*.::                                  ...4.                      .:::..4                     C, i                                       0
                  zz    ,
                                              ko
                                                           :. :i i5                                                  : ko                      . *..
                                                                                                                                              it--
                                                                                                                                             :.',
                                                                                                                                                                'r-j *i: *j
                                                                                                                                                                                  . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                l : :j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.. ..... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K--i :::::N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :.,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . 1:*X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..'...Iq,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (n :::: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "" ...... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cc) ......     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...- -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , , ":....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                   ,q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           : ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *, ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  : ', ::j::Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,11 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..ffl
      t
                                                    -1 .;                                                                                                                         ...
                                                                                                                                                                               ......                                                                                           .,.       li ...........                    r        ::     - :                                                                D     :::A;t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .::                       M X:                                 I, :.X. .:::I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....  -V                    .       :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . - ,.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                               ii ;                    C-4 . .........  :i .,hl.             - I       i: :-.r
                                                                                                                                       ....     ..;:            U, :M I                                     In .:       :.........                    , I ,::;*6     .. .,:.,                         ...                                   . ,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -.-.-.-.-                   C., .::.:         ......-     11                                                         :::*......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......        ,:               :::..                     ,I          ...**I.1,-..
                                                     . :::::,.-"                       C:) :::::a*                            ,              .. .:
                                                                                                                                       ::::::.O                                   ::-P :, :::                           ::::.p        ,                       .............                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :*:::M          .*                                                                                               ......                                      .,                                                            -....
                :2        r        -                       .........     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                  ..... . .,                0           ..                     ,      0       "'I"                        0 X.        ..... O :::                      .::.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .            .:                        .:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....-:5p                   C5       .*:,.*.*.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..          ..       6 %         :" a                    C.) :::::;A                :                      ........ .
      z                        ' ,c                           :::
                                                           ::::::::::
                                                              ...
                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                   :..*..,..*..*..*...                 ...
                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                        ...'.........
                                                                                                                                           ......                                  ............                            ... ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..............      ,                 ..........      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ........  m       -                          .........                          .:.:p....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                       Z" .......   ...                   ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........        II                 ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ............
                          eu      m                        :...%.*..%.%l                            ......                              .......                                    ****                                                                       .............                            ....   ,.,,.         ,           ......                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........                           ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ii
                                                               :                                   .............                        .............                   " "'"         '**' I
                                                                                                                                                                                   ......                               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "     " "                             *.,.*.*.*.*.*       I,                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....    '...,                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                                 ........                             .........                        z'"'"                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                              :::::::::      *:                    ::::::::::*                             ......                       ,                                               .......                               .......                               ...........                      ............                                 .....                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............                       z"        I" ,                     ...........         II                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                              0. >                         :                                                      ..*                   .............                   " .- *.                                         ............  *                       .......,....,                           .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............                                .........                            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...........      ,I                    .....                           .....
      i                                                    ::::::::::           :              ,,::::::::::***                             ............
                                                                                                                                        ........
                                                                                                                                         ...........                    I................... I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,.,I. :::::."    .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                         .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......             ,I               ,............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ............     ,                ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............                      ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Z***"*"*****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....     - "I                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -......--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............. ,.                      .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............         ,,              .............                       ......                                    ......               I             ...........                                                            .........                            .............
      i-       -                                        ,.:.:.:.:..      . . --                                        -,-, M            .............
                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                         :::::.W
                                                                                                                                                                        I .........
                                                                                                                                                                .-I : 111-
                                                                                                                                                         .. ......
                                                                                                                                                                                   .... .....                   -.. ..........                                  .......                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - -- '. . ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :,...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -X-.'-.'-.'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....I, -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......                           ,-......               "I'll           ......              I   "I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :::::                             .......
                                           -                .........
                                                           -......       ,                         .......
                                                                                                   .............                         :.:.:.:.:.,.,                                     Cl. I                        .,N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .t ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ............          ,--------       - .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .............          , ------         .......                           ............------                        ...........                        ............                           ......                         .........  ,"                         ,, ..- ,
                                                                  ....;:                                                                                                                                                X*-                           "       :::::.;jk:: ,j ::::::i*
                                                 ,
                                                            :::::*;
                                                            .....
                                                            ,:::::    , ;
                                                                         .--
                                                                           I           W :::::*
                                                                                       ,Z, ::::::*-.4.: o
                                                                                                           " *.,*                              *
                                                                                                                                         :::::. :
                                                                                                                                                                     - :
                                                                                                                                                                ,-. : C _
                                                                                                                                                                                                            'In :::     ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .... -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -11 : Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                j::j.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . ':               0 :j::T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...    i&      ",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ""'       -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rl.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..::::W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,              ::: a.. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :::::]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .              co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ::,w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :.:.  r.,*,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rl- ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tn ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * *               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::*%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .:::. . :                  IY3 :::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I ... ..                                                                        :,
                  r               W             Ln. :::::*..*         --
                                                                      ., ;
                                                                                       r,          ::::
                                                                                                    .:.:V.I:                  C)
                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                         :::::lWq:;O
                                                                                                                                                    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                   .... "Y.1 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -0.:........... 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .:......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I       ::*::, .*: Im":****'                        1 ;         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....    r,       ,X.W.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            . -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -'ri .:.:: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i'l            .. kk4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              'o       X. *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      : i :...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .. ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .                       * :io
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IS..t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .: ..,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,-!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X U'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .":               wl) j::Zp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c'! .::::., :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                ., i:         u                 S      *          -.                       .                                                                                              -I           :   N                -'.      ;      ::.-      ,,                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .                "
I-                UJ       r      rj            6 iiii :...$,i
                                                                     *1                , )::::;t,O  : ?S
                                                                                                   :::::,*           ,        O          : i A .,
                                                                                                                                         X.                                    **:.:.:W.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                      ,           :***,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......                       .,- : M *                                                .1                           . .                          . i : :. . .                                 . .. .                     6          :.:.:  ...I.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                  :.:.: ...   I                           ...:
                                                              .......                              ...... ,..     ,,                        .. ...
                                                                                                                                         .::.P*
                                                                                                                                           ...            ...   O                     ....&.-
                                                                                                                                                                                   :.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                   ..::
                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                            C5 .:.:::::::.....:.:.::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....   ........ ,-' ::                    *M .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                    L-. .....   * :o  . 11       :    --       *::;."l:: 0 ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...                                                                                     ......                         ..:::::.M *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ::........           0      :::.::.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *.:I               r            .0. - *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :::.::.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
u 11.             ?     au        E,                           ....                                 ......           I                      ......
                                                                                                                                            .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...i;R                      o           M
                                                              .....                                **- *,                                  *......                                  ....       I..
                                                                                                                                                                                    I...........,                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............                           ::::::                                 .*.:::                                                                     ............         ,              .....                                 ............      ,            .............                         .......     '...,
                                                                                                   ............                          ,...........,
                                                                                                                                         .......                                    ......                               ......                                 ::::::                                :::::.                         :::::::::                                      ......                             .........
                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..,
  WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
- i ------ -- ,,-                                    '; ...        - [iifi.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +..+..+.+.+.+
                                       .............                                    fifi.  :.-- . .....              ..:II :.......                                . ......- ....
                                                                                                                                                                                               *,                 X...            *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -        -nn -                              n -                                n -------          --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . .      n-, ------                ..,,- ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .. ..                                    ,.
                                Nn ::.:.:.
                                       ::::::;    ,.j;
                                                    ,:
                                             0. :.:.: :         ul
                                                                tN         :::::r14
                                                                            ::          ..      :      "'
                                                                                                       co     ::::-
                                                                                                              :::        .,-
                                                                                                                           .".        Q:..:::  XX   :ii*::
                                                                                                                                                .:....3,....              lziT
                                                                                                                                                                          M     :::
                                                                                                                                                                                ::::              *         11  :-:-:4,*s::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::                .                :::i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::*  &             T i ,.*-*,:                                                                                                                                          ,! :::::
                                U'l    :               :        ol      v::::v                  .      0      .::*  ..                '0   :
                                                                                                                                           E...:::::+
                                                                                                                                                        ..  ... *
                                                                                                                                                                ::        til   :
                                                                                                                                                                                ::....l
                                                                                                                                                                                :..           ....
                                                                                                                                                                                             --  -:      ,,         :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...    :*..      *           +,                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,          .",          ::....-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     : ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....+ +!.      ,     :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *   :   ir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ..1    L     :::%:,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .: ,j :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ":            .::",:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::::::..::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..           ,- :::::.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :::j:        A
      z                         F"           ip                 0          ::::-O               :      "      :     -*
                                                                                                                    ::          .
                                                                                                                                :       j           +w                    0       :    :::               ,T     +....              , .       '.           i ;g--+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CD             g-+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::K;iii       i      .            ::.,,    :      tN    ::::: +     +   :     M       ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +      +:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,>-N  ,*i      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *i::*::j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F             g          ::
                                00"', ::...g...
                                11                .-"--.         ,-     I ...          ,--             ,-'s .       :: : .R,.: .      N
                                                                                                                                      V)       :
                                                                                                                                               :....
                                                                                                                                               :::
                                                                                                                                                :A
                                                                                                                                                ..x
                                                                                                                                                    .... :
                                                                                                                                                    . ++
                                                                                                                                                                +.
                                                                                                                                                                ,.I M-**  l.rl
                                                                                                                                                                          "J    :::
                                                                                                                                                                                :
                                                                                                                                                                                .:::              ,      0      :**        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .+      *         ll-    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +                              .. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .         q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C i*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,, 1-11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i*,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .               ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +*              ,  '..     "
                                                                                                                                                                                         :.0                                                                              01,                                ::+.+........
      I                                                i        rn ,:i*i   ... -:                             :.,.. ++:     +                  .::.++A       - l'.                                                                                                                 : * : 1 ::::                        5r.                                                                                ......                      ....
                                                                                                                                      ,-I :.:.: :1 ", :....                                  x           4'n i +i.A   :: ++     ++ i         I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 ii i i+i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::.%  . .,         llz X.:                             ....:, -,+.            Ili .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -X-*                               X : * (- :::::::           .:.:.:.:.:.:. I-ff +:.:.++..",    l- il+++     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,4 X......-I ID
                                ,-l ,
                                          i i i:mli 14 -,.....,             i : i ---.-.
                                                                                        ,
                                                                                             .                i i::4+
                                                                                                                       ,......
                                                                                                        -., .............- ,.1
                                                                                                                                         . .-.-
                                                                                                                                      ,-i ...
                                                                                                                                                    +-.-.+,.
                                                                                                                                                 ::: ..
                                                                                                                                               :xt           ,: :
                                                                                                                                                                              . .........-
                                                                                                                                                                                  :.:., +-q:
                                                                                                                                                                                :::-?                      D    ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::::  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +:.:    iO*:. +: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .. +...,H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +... .:.:.:.:.: ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _:::.*.+.*.*.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::.::.:'.*...-4           . ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .:.:. -..              - :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::::     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .'..4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,        :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::::A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,-I ::::::: ,-j :::+-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......                     .:.:.i    - ii
                                       :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                         ......
                                         .....
                                           ..., ....
                                       ,,...,....
                                                                         .......
                                                                           ..++...+...++
                                                                                                               **'**'
                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                              ......,, ,....   ..
                                                                                                                                                 ............
                                                                                                                                               +*'*"
                                                                                                                                               ::::::9
                                                                                                                                      Oc........                ++ --i:.:,
                                                                                                                                                               *.,
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                .............
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                .'.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......  **I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ****        . .4 ......       , .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............                   .., .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +............               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                          -!,
                                        .......
                                         -.-.+--.-.
                                        .......
                                        .-......
                                          +-.-.+.-+-.    I - .......
                                                                            ..+...+..++.
                                                                           +-.-+-.-.++-.
                                                                        1::,:+*:,:+*:++:*
                                                                                          --
                                                                                                -             ..........
                                                                                                              :.:.:.:.,.;.:.
                                                                                                     -- '-........
                                                                                                               ......
                                                                                                                              I.,
                                                                                                                            )i+ .  -
                                                                                                                                               +..+*.*.*.*."
                                                                                                                                               ,'.........,
                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                               +.:+:+:+:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                   n ,
                                                                                                                                               .......
                                                                                                                                                 .....         .
                                                                                                                                                                                  '*'*'+I
                                                                                                                                                                                 ...,...,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                 .:::.,.,.:
                                                                                                                                                                         - .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '***"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,.......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ------......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I   ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -.":,, -------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        zi *'**'*'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....  "       I ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ".......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -..,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,......--., -.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -X-:-,X-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +'**"*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +....+.+.++..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .:.:.:.:+:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +++**.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +:.:.:+:.::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " ..,.+.,'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +.:.:.:.,.,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                   ..                                                                                                                                                                             I                  .   ... .  ...             .    . .....  .                                               ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 .......             .+.: ......                                                                                                         :N,, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  ......                          .
                                         ........
                                        W.
                                        :::: -.i*      ,*. ......
                                              a,,.+,.+. W
                                                                            ::::        -,gX -- i:t,-,:
                                                                                                              .....       - . .......            .... .+, ,I-T.......                    v                        X :X,                                ::.N                        ::::         ": j, ::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .+.-.-.+.-+-,              :::-+*+*-      iM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,*ill,            :::..                sr. .::::VY        +11 ..- : ,-J:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , X:i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "             ,4:.: M            X:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c :.:.:.                 ,
                                                                                                                         ff :                               + - '-                                                    .+Z.                               . +0*                     ...a .: - ::                                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::, ..                     X, ,..
                                 ii :::                                                                                :.k,                                                                                         ......                                                                                                                                                   iiii:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ln *i*?-qi                                                          :.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
C                                , i i:::                                   .X+                                                            ti i+                                 .....     - + - +::.:+                                      'N .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::.::;      .: 't ::::::                                  .::it,+,
  q C=    v -g5                  M,      :::+  I . -eII3:i                                  +
                                                                                            ++ , ...               A,., . Ol !:::lll+l+..                                                  .D++i
                                                                                                                                                                           ,I :::::.++ . . lii::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         g+., -, ; I .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...." 00 ...                    ......       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ::::::      -: :               :::::+     ++,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W :::TS:              :      N :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .: 1) ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,I                 ...        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - I-, .......     ::::.+                          :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::::m                      ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::::+..   +.,::: ir-- :-.-.  :::::        .:.,
a: Z Q,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                 0 M LI?                                                                            I+ .                                                                                                                              :.:::                                                                                  ++...**4:                                                                               ...              ..
                                                                                       R                11", ::::. ,n:                                         .                  i ig .
                                                                                                                                                                           ,,, .....                      7 .....     ::1+-+     4           I- :::    .-.. %-M           I3 i...        $ .... k*,++ ,-, ...          M              I *i,  "-                   'i :                              1:1"::::::Z,                     .::::     :m +
                                                                                                                                                                                                            , i.. ..                                   .... .                                   +
  ,       5    IU                f'-' ::::::r, :::,-            w...::*+tv.'-,.
                                                                             :.:.:+:.    g,             Ln ::+,
                                                                                                        I.n   xx,           .,        -
                                                                                                                                      -    ,:zi igi -,.
                                                                                                                                             ziii        - - -r-                 i:i i                    , . i:    ::::...5. ,              r' , :::::llR:                .     ::::::ka Ln ::: : cl :::X3:                                                      " : : i n+* i 't ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .::::,
         '6     LU                       ..........,                         -.    .: ....                     X i ,X       ..                                                                                                                        ,........,*.
                                         :::       +it                       :::::::::::                      ::..:+:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                       .....                  : *+ l                                        3.   +.                   "
                                                                                                                                                                                                               i++...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "...- ,...                -1 ::::::..+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...                         :::*'***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,...       ... ,- ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....               ......... :,,-.              .:......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,:.... :                   -..,..,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....       ..1:           ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::,:::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .....     ,.          . 1:::          K +.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i " .,
                                         .:.:."i!                                                                                                                                .- --.-.-.  : j::                    .....                           +....+.*.*                                                                             .......                         ,............
  Ij     M                               ....  ...   .-                            ...     **                                                  +
                                                                                                                                              I.....i;--                   -1                                  1      X                                .......                                                                                         ...              I..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +*"**;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *:X   :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +, Do
                                                                             ........           :              ......    - ++- -
                                                                                                                              .-+-+            .....                                                              ...,.....,                          :..+.++.                                                                              ...       ....
                                         .....
                                          ......
                                         ............                        ......**,**
                                                                             ++..+...+...
                                                                                                              -    ......
                                                                                                               -.-+-.-.+.-+                      ::::: i
                                                                                                                                             i ,,,.                               -......
                                                                                                                                                                                 :::::::   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                   ..+...++.                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......               ,-!      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %%:+;"           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....  ,  .,   .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :.:. : ,--I ::: +,              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....                       +............                ::::::                           *****'
                                         +...........                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,.....,                       .............                                                                             ...       ..                ......
I
                                         ............
                                                           I                 ......-- :l
                                                                             +.+........
                                                                                         +, .
                                                                                                 L            ........
                                                                                                              ...+.+.+..+..
                                                                                                               ......                            :::::
                                                                                                                                                   :::: 1.
                                                                                                                                                 .....                           .-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                 -......    +-+-.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                          .....                  +-.-.-+-.-.-+
                                                                                                                                                                                                               i:..*+++.+*.+*.+*..,                   ,,.,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +***"'*+**"                '............,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '***" ,_                  C  .,    +,   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *"*******+**       ......    ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "" ,',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -........                           :.:.:+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .-+-.-.-.-+-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,-.I .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '*+""+**"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :**....     ".               ***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          **'*"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :::  -:....   :             '*****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,:+:.:.:.:.:+:
        ----- ---------
                         --
                                         ,....,... ..
                              ------ ......
                                         .+.,.+++...       I
                                         --. . . . . ...... +.+.+.
                                                                           .+
                                                                           +....
                                                                                   ,.,,.,
                                                                                       ,,,                    ++,........
                                                                                                              ...   ,+.+++++..
                                                                                                                                                 ........
                                                                                                                                                 .-.
                                                                                                                                                 ..
                                                                                                                                                      ....I
                                                                                                                                                    +.-+-.-+-.
                                                                                                                                                    ,...,,
                                                                                                                                                   -.
                                                                                                                                                                                   ++++-.-.+.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                 +..+..
                                                                                                                                                                                 ..
                                                                                                                                                                                             .+.
                                                                                                                                                                                         +.+..+..+ .++++,.+.+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..+.,.,.,.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .....          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .,+*.*.,.+.*+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......      ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....  ,...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X.*      ***+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Z:..... .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +.-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i+.**,.,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .,,,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,                ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                    r-      I-             ....
                                         ......
                                               +.+.++
                                           .....
                                         +....+...++**+                      ++.,.,..,
                                                                             ...
                                                                           ....        ,.,,- 111 .....
                                                                           +.++...++..++,
                                                                           .+..+..+.+...
                                                                                                              +
                                                                                                               ..
                                                                                                               +...
                                                                                                              .....
                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                                         .++.+...,
                                                                                                                   ,......,
                                                                                                                              ...
                                                                                                                            ...                  .-
                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                    .....
                                                                                                                                                    +-.-.-.+.-.
                                                                                                                                                 ++++...+++...
                                                                                                                                                                                   .+.++..+....
                                                                                                                                                                                 +.+.+.+.++...
                                                                                                                                                                                 .......                          .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .....        ,",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ',+,  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,+,.....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +............,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .+.++.....+.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,-,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,.,++-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....  ,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :-:-:-:-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......                     ,.:.X.X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -       ....   ,.,    :           .,.....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .+.,.,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .+.-+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........
  r                                       ....
                                          ......
                             t ::,***'*'+*'++
                                         ...       ...
                                                     .                       . ,++..+..,
                                                                             ....        .,..                 +,...,+..
                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                 I ++...++++++.    ,......, ..
                                                                                                              ...........        ,
                                                                                                                                                 ..   . +.I
                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                      ... I
                                                                                                                                                   -......
                                                                                                                                                    ++-.-.-+-,                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                 *",***++**:
                                                                                                                                                                                   +.-.-.+
                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                               -.-. ,....         ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .,,....,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....,.                 ...... ,..,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +....,......,                ,.,...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +"       .......             ......  ,-.                  :.:.:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :                          k:..,+.,..,..*.".+,               ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,*...                     ....--   ....
          m .2                             ....,,+ ++.+.+.....++,            ......                           .....       .....                       ..
                                                                                                                                                 .......     ..I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,+.++.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......       I,            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....I....+:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....  ,,               '.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......        -,+             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,.,.....                           ,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..:::::,*+t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :iiii:iiiiil:                       ii:i'***+'*+'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....                   .....                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .........                     .......                         .,......                    ..........   ,                        .*,
'O
                                         ....,...,                         ,+-
                                                                           ........        ,++                 ......
                                                                                                              +,,-,                              .- -.-     -.
                                                                                                                                                    -+-+-++.+.+.+.               :iiiiii:iiii:l
                                                                                                                                                                                 +                                  ......                                  .....                    ....                       ......        .:              :+:+,+:.:.::                               -                :::
                                         ......                              +.:                              . ....
                                                                                                                                + , :::+:                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I:::, ,- :::k ..-. -1.+...+++.,        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....                        :-Xik                 ,v                     I.....H.., ,.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               + ,- ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...          ,. .....        ,.....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,              ,-I.... . +.-+ ++*+:
                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                     i :::                                                                     ...                                      %,4. ,-. :::               ...I....+..                                                                         -
                                               +. .. ,-.                           ::++rq +++,I -,-,i:::                  iw4.                                                         ::i,,- l"  +1 ,- :::SA:
                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
  Z3.5 w                                  .++...
                                         :.+.+..                         z:::
                                                                    -I ZX,   .......                          +::::::      .,+.:                   ::::3-.                         ....                                              :                ::::::       .:: , .....       -.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - I I .......       ......                                                        ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::     *V-+.            , :Xi                            :x,+,
                                                                                                               ......      --... :::                                             ::::;:.
                                                                                                                                                                                   -....                            ::::::A::                          ::::::                                                                                                                 ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .' k.
                                         ... ,.....
                                           .......
                                         .....                             +.+.+++..,
                                                                           ......                              -...                              +.::::.:..:
                                                                                                                                                 + .     ..   ...                :::::i
                                                                                                                                                                                    ......         I              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .        ,++,.                      ,,+......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "*'**                          ....                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......      +...              ::+:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......   :- *.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . +....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........         11... +:::::.:.:.:I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,.,                        .+.'.'.'.+++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .-.-.   ++.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....  -++,
                                         ............                    Z.+.*.++*.*+*
                                                                           +...+..+++.+.,        I             ...
                                                                                                              ,.,+,    +.+++,+..
                                                                                                              ,+.++.+...+++                      .......
                                                                                                                                                 ...*:::::::
                                                                                                                                                    :+:.:.:.:.                      ++,       ...
                                                                                                                                                                                            ...," -,..++,.     ,-,,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..++..+...             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +..+.+.++....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......                        ........-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......-                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .".."...                      .+.+++.+++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,+......                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........        +. ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +..          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......    , ,I
                                         ......                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,,.,-I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                              ,.......,                                                             .,....,"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .     -               , ,
                                             ,...., Z.+*.++..+,++.++,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *,,
                                         ..........                                                                                                      --,...                           ....    .I I:*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,+*+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -++...+*                      +-*"      ,                 .......  "+..  .                 ......                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .-.-.-.-      +-+-.            +.+.+...+.                 :::::::::-:-4
 ,CK0 < ,                                 ......
                                         ......                          zZ,..+...++..+,
                                                                           ,.+.+....++++,                     .+..++.+.+.,.                      ...                                .:::::...                       .....                              ......                       .....                       .......                                  ,+1 ,'".....                                     ......                       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *
                                         ....
                                         ...........                          ..++....+.+.+,                  .......
                                                                                                              .,...++....+.
                                                                                                               ......                              ....
                                                                                                                                                 .... ....    -                     .    .....
                                                                                                                                                                                         -.++++++,
                                                                                                                                                                                          .....                       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -,+,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .++-         -11 .......          +,+,+,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .++++..+.,+.,                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .+.+...+.                   +...   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +-.-.-+-.-+-.                 ......                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......   ,".                  +,++++,                    ... ....,.+.
                                         ............
                                         ......                            .........-
                                                                              -***'*
                                                                          i,.+.+...+.+..         I
                                                                                                 I, ......     ......
                                                                                                               ,'.........                       ,,,...,
                                                                                                                                                 ......          II                      X+X.
                                                                                                                                                                                         +:+:.:+:   ;             :   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , -, ',                           ,,-,,.,                       .*.*++.*.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........                   ..........   +..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .............Z:               ++++**+*++++                   ,....++.,                    ...   +.++.++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .+.++-.-.-.                  .+++.+++..+.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .++-.-++.
-- --- Ill ....                           ......
                                         ....,..,                                      ....
                                                                                       -.-.-..                     ......
                                                                                                               ,.....,.            I ......        ......
                                                                                                                                                                  I- n ':
                                                                                                                                                                                    .......     ,,I- .:+*++.:.:+: -.....l.                - .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -,......,.,    , ------    -,,'...4,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,. - .,....,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .,,...,+,: - ...        11...... - , I .- .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                        ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,......,    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .++++...,,-        . ....  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +++++,++,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :-....
                              .......                                                                              ......                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *+*+**..*..*+++,I                                           ,::              i ...
                                         :::*+4.N :-:-:-:-:-:-,
                                        ,+.-.-.-.-.-.
                                         ...                                  :::  +:+:  ip.  -*,             I-....
                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                                                   ::::
                                                                                                                         +.+..++.
                                                                                                                         .*
                                                                                                                           --'O
                                                                                                                              -,
                                                                                                                               i:    ::
                                                                                                                                      w
                                                                                                                                                 ...*,,',
                                                                                                                                                 :......
                                                                                                                                                     :
                                                                                                                                                  .::*+ +,+++
                                                                                                                                                        "t      +++
                                                                                                                                                                                 :-:*+:+:+
                                                                                                                                                                                    ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                    ..   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                          +:it      1     00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ++:+:++::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                I "I ......       ,.,...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -%          -              \-++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,+   +J:       In        ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::+*+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....      +4        ,-, +,.....,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::+,+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :::;;.,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...          .*              -+::*+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :W +                  +::::r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -X.....   "+:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +
                                 '4      ::::.*)*:               0)           :xj
                                                                              ::+                       I       .. + f1l):::::r++4                                :        0  ,          -
                                                                                                                                                                                    -:+:+,          1     cfj
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C)        ::l:':
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %:+2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X-:         +,+,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .           ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              It       ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +***'         I              ::::)j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :       +,++,-      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0       ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i     +++  +i      Ol      i      :            ,,,        +X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :*+*'.:':   A    '     m       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::    :          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,  ,ZT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _j      :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::         ...+
                                 --  ,    ::X-l:                 O                            ++:          t+,++-
                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                        tD . -+          Irl
                                                                                                                         .  .
                                                                                                                         3++i
                                                                                                                            ;,        "
                                                                                                                                      N           :::::.
                                                                                                                                                  ::*+      +++            M     ::::      .
                                                                                                                                                                                          ::                                    -                                                                                           +++                      ig    :      .-         :::::     I                                                    ...    +
                                 to                                                      ,,+++                                                     .:::
                                                                                                                                                   ::+n:
                                                                                                                                                        :H: 'D::::::
                                                                                                                                                                  : -1 :::               .k 1 a,                   :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - -I. t, :..*..*..*.+*..++.*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +.++                                   ..,...,I ,17)             :i..+   ;*nl-I 4 -i+z              a+g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...+i 4, ..i..::+++:                                 ...      .++ [I,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,+ C. : ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Aa : Cn....                :M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ++
              ro                         :ixitio
                                 a) :.:.:,
                                 i:r      --lli ,,,
                                         ...
                                          ....                   ko           :::: -i-+S
                                                                               -::+:.A
                                                                                   ++.+
                                                                                                +
                                                                                                +.:. ,, !,X     ::
                                                                                                                       .+:
                                                                                                                         +i,
                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                        AX  4+, 0U) -::+,,        :::-
                                                                                                                                                   ..+.+.+*:++t. 11
                                                                                                                                                           ....                     .  :::.     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                          'I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-D
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :,*     .   +++   :, V,    f14...     **"**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *++**"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       **'******'*'         w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IQZ     :i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +-   :-+...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +     ] ; :..im           .+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,i        R       :  i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t--+.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -- ..i ,o X.       :++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ++   :: III')      :::::+<*++:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L,),:::::+,M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cn      :::            ,:
                                 ,-I:-....,'.;                   "J             +.+        ++ 1. :".-,,.-   .-.,
                                                                                                             -:::. -+++         , I :::N           .+.-.-.-+, +            ") :::*  ..:-:-                          ::.iq+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ."                        - ::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ''***                Iq      :..+.  n, , ,1-1       . . + . .x,.-:1 +:.:.:...:,:                                                                           8- - .:.:+.-++,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - .:+:+.-++,:                        ::,-, ,
  a                              _j ,..++.,.l
                                         ::.::i:ff:...+++,+
                                         ,..........             ,-jI .+:.:...+ ::::%+*
                                                                                ...........
                                                                                .-  +.+     ,4:
                                                                                           -++.-.+.+         1+    --          l :     ,-j         :::
                                                                                                                                                  :::      i  +   ,        1-4       :.::*-A:   +
                                                                                                                                                                                               ..  I                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,....++.,      ,*                   ::::::::::::         H       ::::                           .::H        :              ..%                                                           .   . ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...                     -.....       ,
                                                                                                        "r,,-+.,+,++,
                                                                                                             ,,.......,                            ...,-...
                                                                                                                                                  ,..........                        ............
                                                                                                                                                                                       ......      ,,              ...   ,.,+++                                                                                                                        . I 8 :::::::.::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::m::.:::.:                   i:*:*:': R :,                 :-:-:+-:--:                 :-:-:--:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...:,x:,.   -, - ::::::::::::
                                                                                                                ...........    t.                 ..........                         .....  ,.....,                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :-.-.-+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :-X-:-:-X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :....,.,                     ,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,...,
       i :R
       Ei
        ............   -
                                         -. +
                                         ,..',.,
                                         ......
                                         :::::::::::::   I I ++.....+.,.           ...+.+.+...+
                                                                                .......
                                                                                ::  .........
                                                                                                             -,,'..,
                                                                                                             "++
                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                             ,:::::::::::+          -11,          ,..........
                                                                                                                                                  .X    "      ..      -             ............
                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                     -       , ++,
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.....,.,         --          ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,+------             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +.+.-.+.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....   "    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...   +.+..++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -.-        :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                        ......             I-        ,:.:.:+:.:+.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,:.:.....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .+...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                .......                         ....           --                 ......          I m :::::          .......
                                                                                                                                                                                          .....     I 'N:::;       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......                             .......                                                                                .......      - Qcz.......                                     .....  .-I -N:::                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :::
             :R13                  't :::      +                                          -                                                           :+,N                                                                            :                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :::::W        : W            ..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0r, ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,-+: m.           +.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::: ,+ 1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :..:W:                          X.;D+:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :.:.:m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::X: a, i+:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *'**+   +***+,+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,::,iV+            C.)    :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D :::::     '..                          :.,.-,+t..
 C,       w                        ,t
                                         .....
                                          *'++    ++,.l
                                                   ::::::i:X
                                         ::::::Oeir.
                                                                 1,-I
                                                                  t1l
                                                                     --I +..+.+ ++1
                                                                                :i    i
                                                                                         ++
                                                                                         i
                                                                                           O+. ll-I -N..
                                                                                             )
                                                                                                                         R.. s-- i 17-1 - i...
                                                                                                                                       -.
                                                                                                                                                      , . II 0,,,- ...               :::
                                                                                                                                                                                       :....
                                                                                                                                                                                     ::-  :A :: (,! :-.5              .:.Im           +I, ,- :::k         -..*+++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :.:::   n:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ::*+..         . m :x.2"    I              .      ",j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10      .:.:..   .4  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .       U          :::  ..    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +    I :::       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::.:.+N                     :***:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ::::+         ++
 LDa, 'O                           I-i ::::::f+   , , C.              , :...              Iq,..
                                                                                             +, ,C,:)        ,-ii g i+ ,NO                        -:+4-1'1,
                                                                                                                                                        .                  .         :::    .++91++:
                                                                                                                                                                                         ., *+: L" ii*ii+  -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4        i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ::..++:  i"A+             cr)      :::iQ:                0      ::    ".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..+    I      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I,      ::::+:.t\.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,  ,               ,,        ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::     r,++$:       t   .      ::,:+            +:    0)    :::::N   ++-.:,       O     :j:j:   +.V
 E - W a, lz                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,+          w   . i:i:::  *   +    i       -f     i:j::   i&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,. :: ,4 :::, n     :::.    .1  I.        I         ::g                          ...                     U')   :+::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Qnii::.       +Ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.I..          jl    i+:,  i::-,*:
                                   M::::::=
                                         ::::.:.
                                               .V  +"    .        U*l
                                                                  CO :::           X. , Lq
                                                                                ::::::IY5++
                                                                                ::::::M                  00 :.:::..
                                                                                                                ::::X
                                                                                                                   ::   :...
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          M*++: +: :C7)
                                                                                                                             , ...     n00 , :::   .%%*,-
                                                                                                                                                   '", +      . ko         rl :::       ** Pi++:
                                                                                                                                                                                        :+:+++.*
                                                                                                                                                                                     :*iI.1;+       : -,,  a, *::: +--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i...  -.+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I --, L                       i 8.+*     *++C,    F :......                          :::.::I"+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . *5:;*.rl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .+.,.           N ::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :*..-:*: .+:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :-+t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   " i :ig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,- i ii!6 Ll ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i-Tm     * ,L, ::...          :,+++ :+
                                                                                                                                                  iiiM 1-4:..+                           ,+++.,.                                              - ..........                          :ii.:i-7-    +, . ::                                                                                                                                       .:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :::::<O*.
                                                                                                                    .. ..,:'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :       CN
                                    -l ....4,A+                                                                    ....                                                                                       . .:I.X,                                              l.                                             -X..-                                                                                   .:...R:: . +'                       :X+.,
          6-08u                    , zZ.:x.k,+q    .+ ,. +.++.+
                                                            ..+.....+,%i:i:        ...                   ,--j::::.::.,:ff    ... - .::::::                                           :::       +. ,-I .%%,          :::           + " .:::::.,                  ?i. , :::::::::::::                                                                    ff                     ....    , - : ,-i:+:o         - .:: , ,.,.,..             ::: +.+++     ..
                                        i +'+++.+..+.+*..*                         ...     -?+4    *,           ."*+'+****'+                      ..........
                                                                                                                                                   ......  -.                           X+.H
                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                     ....     .........             ......,., 4                          .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............                  - ...,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .+.+..++....+               :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....-S ,-I .+..+..++        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......*+                 I-...     ,....,                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,..........                      .......
                                             ..... ......                          ......
                                                                                    ......                      ..*..,*...,.,                      ...,.,..,+,                                                                                                                                                  .........    +.               +-+-.-.-+-.-               I    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..  , .,., ,.,               ,+,...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .,+.+..+..+,+                ..,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,
          < w                              ***+*'
                                          .....
                                          .,-.....
                                        i+..+....+++..  I                       .......
                                                                                   .
                                                                                   .....
                                                                                ..++-.-.-+-+-.
                                                                                    ,..,,,.     -            :     ......
                                                                                                                .......  + * *..
                                                                                                                               *
                                                                                                                             ..
                                                                                                                   .............
                                                                                                                                -*                 .......
                                                                                                                                                   -+.+++,., '...,                      ..+   .........
                                                                                                                                                                                        +.+.+....+.
                                                                                                                                                                                      +-..-+-.-.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ....... -++,                  .++++.+.+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .+...+++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......     ,        ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...... ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............                +....++..+.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.....,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......   ,..         I     ::+++.++++..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...........                   +.....+.+++++-.+ _ 111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,.......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II.....,,,   ,.,.,                .+,,+,,+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,.,+.++,.,                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,-,,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,......+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -..,..+ - , .-.        -+-.-.+.-
                                           ......
                                          ......                                                                                                   ......                             +.+..+.+.                       ....                               ......                       ......                       .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........                      ......+++-.-.-              ,-,,.,                           +-.44,
               IIIIIIIIII-1- .......
                                          .......
                                          ...,.,,-
                                           ....
                                           ......
                                          ......                                -.--+--+-
                                                                                   .....
                                                                                    ..... --,                   .+.+...++++.+,
                                                                                                                -.......- --- ------
                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                                                                     ......  '.."
                                                                                                                                                              - I -------+.--+.+.       .....
                                                                                                                                                                                      ...      ...     -- - +.+.+...             , - i...     -. 1-*.....     - v, ......             +,,,..         .....      -......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....                      ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ++,.,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..    ,                  - .-                         - ----            - .......
     :                                    .......
                                               ...
                                           ...........                          ........
                                                                                   ....
                                                                                   +..+.....;,I
                                                                                   -     +-     -  .I            ii.......
                                                                                                                 +.......+..+
                                                                                                                    .....T
                                                                                                                 .......          ,                ......
                                                                                                                                                   -+ ++.i%+.ii,
                                                                                                                                                     ......  ...     I ' ::           :
                                                                                                                                                                                      :iiiiiiii                       i,.......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i:i                               ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       iii:**,*,+,*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........       I              ..+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -,,+.+   +..+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...... ++...++++..+,                                      ,,....,                          ......
          -                               ...........
                                          ........
                                             .......     +.                        ,,-.-                           .......                         .--++++...-.-.-   ,                     ..... :::::::::.
                                                                                                                                                                                      :%::::::::::                      ....             I                  .,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..,.,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........                  +...+..+.+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .........+-,               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..... ",                      ...... 1++*******+**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,......-                       ..........      ,
                                          :.+.*..+..,.+,."
                                           .......       ,.                      +: :,                              ......
                                                                                                                 ::::::,  ;. iI:                        +**+
                                                                                                                                                        ...     11..,.                  -+-++.+.++-.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,",".
                                                                                                                                                                                      .......                       +.-..,++,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                         .,..++.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......       II             .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +..+.+.... -+-+++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........                      .-.,,+++ +..+.+...+++.        ,...,.,                       '*'*+*+++**+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....                           ***"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,+,+++.+.+ *
                                          :-:-:::-:-:              ,             , ::+::v
                                                                                   -     -
                                                                                      .... ,
                                                                                           ....+.
                                                                                   ..++...+..+      i            ii     : i  ::   :                iii  :
                                                                                                                                                  .......   i i :i:                   ++.....+..+.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ....-+-
                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                      +   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........ , .,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +.+.++++.+..                       .... ,,+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,+++++,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......                      .+...+..++..+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                        ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....... +..+..++.             +:++.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -l                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,+++.++.+
 ',j,- , 2                         I- :.:.:,
                                           .....
                                           .......  ,..I+                  z     .....                                        -                    ::.:::      .                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                        X:    ...   ::              ::: ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *::  4              ,-' i*i:O.,..+.++..++. :                :::i:**'+"*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......     +  I ,q :::       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ... :  ++.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          --             . ::::::,      n' ,-i :::::"i:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +.+.+.....++.                  ......     ,++,               ++.++++++++,       -: .:::%        *+*++   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                 fu                       :::,:*     *                                                              ...      I                       .       :    .                     ::::::.;!:           ,      ::.*     .....                                                          i*4          -n                     :                                               :::::::i:::                 .,+,++++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i ..++++++++.+,                      :::::%:     ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .X         .:,+: I .......         .:.:.:.:,:                     ,,:-:-:                      .+++.+++..                   %:::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i +.+...++,.,   -::, I ....
                                                                                    ....., :i +::::::::::.+      :::::;: I ::+.-..-.               ::::.:it:1                         +-,
                                                                                                                                                                                      X    .....
                                                                                                                                                                             4 +.++....+.+..
                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
          -                   % .+.+++....+.+.
                                           ......
                                             .... :::::
                                          ,+++,'...
                                          .......          - ; +:::::::::::      I+-        +...                 ,.....,,
                                                                                                                   ......                          I    ,...
                                                                                                                                                           .,.,+++-l
                                                                                                                                                     ........
                                                                                                                                                   I............                      ,,,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                      .......,+, ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                  +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .++..++...+..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....... , .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .....,,I., -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......,+, ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .++.+.+.+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .+.+.++....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ++.+++++.+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......                            +,,.,,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........     +...++..+.          .++++.+...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +.++++++++.+,                   +..++..+.++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..... ++..+++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ++..+..++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..,-,.,
                                          +,...+++,+
                                          .+.....++     I+ +-,-,                   ,,+-
                                                                                   ....
                                                                                    ......   -     .1            .. +
                                                                                                                 .......     .+..+.+..+
                                                                                                                   .......+....++.+,               .-.-.-.-
                                                                                                                                                   .......                            +..+..+.+++.
                                                                                                                                                                                      ....        +                 .+.+....+.++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......   +                      ...+,..+,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......       I               ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......                                                                                  ,.......,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....  +.++++.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +.+..,.+,                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,.......
                        'S                   ...,,.+-,
                                          ++,,++++,+
                                           .,,,.,
                                          ........                                  .....
                                                                                   ......          ...- ......
                                                                                                   .I ......
                                                                                                                   ......                            ......
                                                                                                                                                   ......         +I ...+.+,,....        + +.+.++...
                                                                                                                                                                                              ...+..++..            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ++.+...+.++..       I .......        .-  , ++,  -I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..+++.+..++.,                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...... +.++++,              .- +,....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +-.+     +.-+-.-.-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +.-.--                  *****+*+*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....  ,..*                    ,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..,........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,..,                    .+++.++..+..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...    ...  NI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +..,                 .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..+...+.+..
                                                                                                                   ......                          .......                               .....                          ......                           .....                        ......    -,I. ..1'- +++++-++.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......
  < 0 <                                   .....
                                            ......,,".....                         +.+++..,*
                                                                                   .....
                                                                                    ......                         .,.....
                                                                                                                    - ,+,
                                                                                                                   ......      +-.....             ..."..."
                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                   ......            I- .......         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                        ...,.,,-.-                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .-  +.+...+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .-.-.-.-      -I-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +-+-.-.-.-.                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +..+.+++...+.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +,....++,.                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....   +.+.++,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +-.-+-.-.-..                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..,.,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ++.+...   i-- ........     ..",   ....   - - +++..+.+++,   -,,+,...                     .-.-  -++-.-.
-----    -------------        1 -.......    ......
                                            ++.,,...,
                                            ....     -                 -           ,..++++,.
                                                                                   .......
                                                                                   .-. +.+++
                                                                                    ......    +-      --         ,+.++.....+.+
                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                 ...    -----
                                                                                                                        ,.....-
                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                   +.+....+.+,
                                                                                                                                                   ,  ....
                                                                                                                                                   .....
                                                                                                                                                   .....      -
                                                                                                                                                           "... -                     - -.-+-
                                                                                                                                                                                      +....."...
                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                 +-.   -            nn  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ......   +,,      -        -    .+.+++...++..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ------     ++++.,  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........  ,"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......  2    I  .......      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....... "     I                 -.44,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......                      *   -**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -.......+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..... +  *I -              ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ?......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -++.+++.+ ?i,
                                          !::::Im          : ISI::.::r+-+:                               't        :::O"
                                                                                                                    .,         , +      lz .-      :::+,4
                                                                                                                                                     +-+
                                                                                                                                                   ***       +,      ;      ci;       ::*:,*+W             0)       i*i       I         +     I   I     .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::::::*     -                    ii:R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :::++         :    14,         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......    ++,       ,-i        X     f"  ,       -            ::::*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +-       +   , ++    "      X++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:..           I    U,          :::
                                   C.)    :::::,N
                                          ...       -                               i*?tp                O         i:i                                  :.j
                                                                                                                                                        .     ,q:
                                                                                                                                                               +                      :::-::V    f:
                                                                                                                                                                                                +4 M :::X, r',      :::::     NA        +     D         X. ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - ::::::f-..      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ++++'.                      + .,; iiiiibl,                                      ii   :i       ,                       :      ,       11     :..:.r++,+"++,      11          :  ::&        ,
                 cj                F',:                                                                                  ::
                                                                                                                         ::.+ 00        al ;.,:.
                                                                                                                                        P,           ,,...
                                                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                                                   :*,++.
                                                                                                                                                            +t+: -_
                                                                                                                                                             ,-,.            D::::::k
                                                                                                                                                                                      +:::::0  ++,                      - +++::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::kt,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              m !::            --   *** rl)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +,+".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :Xt.fll+            M ::++   :*is   + ,S-i                   +,. +.++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -..::::w      :, ,S;.......   ...... ") -:;4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::::1                                   -+,+: 0 :X-                 +q , I .:+:+y,                    ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ...
                                   ,-.q:::'i -'k r", i;Vii M R.
                                                                                             I ; i+R 00? ...
                                                                                                                                              P.::,3. C.1)                                     +0 rq
                                                                                                                                                                                        :::::"D,:          I-D:::::           ...       :: '. :::::            -1+.   II ,t :::::       :::+ ,J.;::::-,:,                                       :.*::         I :::::+.+,:::,:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I: ., I :::X,.,                                               : r :::::,                  +.
        Z- -0
                 r
                            'm
                                   C,:il +1
                                   (      :::::
                                          :-      t
                                                           i ,H
                                                           :       r ,             :ii
                                                                                   --    V ++       .                    +        I     t.         ,,
                                                                                                                                                   X:,
                                                                                                                                                     +
                                                                                                                                                           +++,
                                                                                                                                                           a    ,    I o ::::"          +.,
                                                                                                                                                                                         ..   +;
                                                                                                                                                                                             ?+ t - ,      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .  -N'4::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .i          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lz       .:::::I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :.,:+4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +I+,,* C',                 :::::+4-4:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ::.:.!n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .+             r        ,:::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :.:+O)+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..          I: US.o         .:- ::j:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :ii:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..                            iiiiiii,+, 0r,I :i:i:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .X                           x::: .:r+,$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,+.l.   , 1)I :.-+,+         :::::
        zr                                  +:+..                                  .+::     :::
                                                                                           ,At:          q          iiiV           ,                  :!
                                                                                                                                                     .. :      +,           W           :+:-:+",-              I    ,X         +++-,+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +:,:*:*:     *'     m                                             .+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .+                   ':   ++                               ...                                         0                     :    ,-I         +-.-++-++,+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :::o
                         co               :::::::i,':
                                          ....... ...
                                                                   ,-A%:::+                  ?+J:
                                                                                    ...... ......
                                                                                                         ,-; ::.++      .:. :t
                                                                                                                                  I.
                                                                                                                                                     + *++:
                                                                                                                                                   .::::
                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                            0 :::+++4          , +
                                                                                                                                                                                           : ...
                                                                                                                                                                                         +....+.+++,I 01-1 :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i       .++N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ++++++++++++.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +: i::i:iiiti1 ,4 i:ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +      Ln                                           x56 ::::::*:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !  ::+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..-.+-+.-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i    C3         i   :i:::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.::: :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :..::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ii                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +++++++++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ++++++++++++                    ....-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......       II                ,,::.....,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                        ++++++.-    +.              ,,+.++.++,+++,.                     :::+:.:+:.:                   +:.::+:.:.:                 *:,::::                       :..x+:+4                       ::.... .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .....                       .....
                 >                        .-.-..-
                                          ...+.++++++++-+
                                          +-.-.-.-+++-.                            ... ++.+.,..+.+
                                                                                   .+.+..+.+++++
                                                                                   ....     +++.+++.               .+++.-+-
                                                                                                                    --.
                                                                                                                   ++-         +++,
                                                                                                                               +--+
                                                                                                                           +-+++-+                 ...  ++I+++.-
                                                                                                                                                      ++++.+.+.
                                                                                                                                                   +-++.++-+-     -+ m ,.,,+++,.
                                                                                                                                                                +++                        ....                            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,+,+,,.          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ---- ++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - +...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -+......,+.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I              :...:.:++::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ++.++,:+:++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .                ...... ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..,,.,+1.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.+.++.+..
----        - -------
       tI ---              -- -             ......
                                          :+:-:-:-:--      I"I'll k:::::;:::::::   --        l-                          ......
                                                                                                                   ++.+.+.+.+..
                                                                                                                   ++++++,+,+,   ++                ,-, .... ++++,, . .+.....
                                                                                                                                                   .++++,+++++++,                              wmm
                                                                                                                                                                                          .++++....    ---           - .....                                  "- -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::::::::::x                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....         I - ", ,,,xx,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ++.......             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,..,+++++        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............                      ..+++++
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....    ...I1-1 :-" "'            ,++1   ,                   ..++++.+.+.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......
                                            .....                                  .......                         :::i:+!                                            I ,--I ,::.::                                                                        X                           :::,                                                                                                     ; f'.1 ::::In: -1 ::::,+;z                              ,+:
                                            ...
                                          :+:.:,        ', 1.11                     ..
                                                                                   :.:+:+:;I             M'.       ::+:+N         :     V)           :
                                                                                                                                                     +::    W,                              +,b     .: ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..:..+, : CD::** 1 v.4
                                                                     , :::::i,                      : r-, :::,:I-+*:                                                                                                 ::::::W                   a)        :::  i,*+,+,                     ::.M,          ,:,-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .. . : , r :::::U.        +::;:+,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....    k.. M               ::::+jiSj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::: , :j ,*
                                    3 I                            r, V :*i:1      +..
                                                                                                                             ++ (,, +:*::                   K :, LI) :::                       , +*:
                                                                                                                                                                                         ..X ++, -           ,       :+                                                                :::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::.,N                                         r"        .:.:.,+"r           Ict ::::::Z\:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                --    :o ; , ::i,+9": m :*:t.5+i
                                                         ,                                                                                                        ,                     X:           ,               +:::::V":                                                                  * . c* :::: ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               w :...                 , W              :::kt+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....
             t -                          : i4v>
                                          ::                                                 +:                               J+ 6 :j:::                                                 :::.,''I
                                                                                                                                                                                                -           D                                             Xs                            :::t.j: tn. ....                              t.        :::::.   +.: 1. :-x.,
                                                                   ", :,+          ..:.++, tN :::::++                            +:                :::::, +:                            :: , .q
                                                                                                                                                                                        .+      -:                   :::: -                              X,                  V         :::
                                                                                            "

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                     PCT/US2013/023409
                            ------- ------- --------.           0
                  ... .      ... ..      i .    . .    .. ..            .. .
                                     CL
                    -----             .~      .-..
               N'     '-'     C        C:Q:                       )'      C
   IVS                                   ....                   C) x~0C)   r,    )           ~         '      00
                                ..          0...       .......     ~             )                                                      N
                                          .. .-i. . . .o
                                                       .. ..           . ..        . . . . . .
                                                                                  .....          ...                                          0          0
                                                                                                                                           t... ..                ..
         co                                         N'                                         MZ'
                                                                                                                          CN~r,    '        )                   X'N''
                                                 tq    Xf       r,                                             <           o                      H
                                                                                                                                                  :::::        j::N
                                                                                                                                          ~          C$    L-,C t
                                                                                                                                                                       ~ 1.....
                                                                                                               C~
                                                                                                           ......         ......
                                                                                                                       ...                                            ..
                  ......       j....                   ......
                                                    0...
                                                         O'c:
                                                               ....     ....
                                                                           0
                                                                              N
                                                                                 nz                            4
                                                                                                                                tD'
                                                                                                                                coc
                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                 '   C'
                                     .......                                                                                             0...             C       t,
                                                          '-. '0 g .......                     aC     M"~                            ........C.....
                                                                                                         ~..... ~ ~
                                                                       ....
                                                    ~ ~~..
                           >CC'....       ....         .....                                                   r')
                                                                                                                            )     ) .......
                            C)C  ~~                                  ~' ....0    Cr~
                                                                                     ~ ~~ ~        C.....            ' ...C      ~lN ..        'rC    r   t
              .....         ....              .        ..              ... ..                      a..     ......
                                                                                                               ).             ~'                          2
                            .. ..
                                         ..
                                          .....
                                         ...
                                             .. 0.
                                              ..
                                          .....
                                                        .... .......
                                                        ..... ..
                                                        ....
                                                       ..-
                                                                       ......
                                                                       ....
                                                                          ..
                                                                               1...
                                                                               ~ ~
                                                                         N.......
                                                                                -
                                                                            S....I
                                                                                                         C         - C-------
                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                           ... .-  0    .
          U)                          L0-OO                                                                                NCj~ LO               N'Po-o
             :::::M:               Il               a)                                                     Xm          ,n        o                     '   t n 'C
                          iCCP 0,)             t     0    N        0       u'~S                                    V)-~ AN                     'r     N      $r
                                   '....             0.m                   0$                                                        ......
                           ... t '     ~   ...0                            N...     .....
                                           010M.                                                                   r-NxA-O
                  3:                                                               39

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
 --      - ----------                  ------                                              -    ---   ----         -  -             -    -        -      -.-             -       -----     ...    .
                                     (N. ~ ~ N~ ~'x0F'~     ~~          0      ~
                                                                               S'0.            ~       0              0      0.       .-       0
                          '-  XN                                                                 -     (~0
                          Ln             'Dz4
                                           ..    ..
                                                             ......
                                                             ..  ..
                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                          .. ..
                                                                                                                                           ~......
                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                 .           ... .
                                                                                                                                                               ...             ...
                           N.  ....         .....            ....           .....             ....           ..N.          .....                                               ..            ......
                                                                                                                                                               .                                                              . ..   . .. .
                         . . .I .~ .o
                                                             ......~                        . ..... (. .... ..' .
                                                           ------------------------------------
                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                   .0 .O...     .~ .- ...   . ..
                                                                                                                                       I    ......
                                                                                                                                            ... ...
                                                                                                                                          .' .
                                                                                                                                                   '~
                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                                  0        a
                     -~~:                                       5                                    '-X~   Xo .-                                             -X0
                    0:::                                W              CV              LL.             1.                             IL'                                0        -     00)
                                                                           0
                              X.
                                         00            tn ::::::i
                                                                            ::A:a0u    r.    .::I
                                                                                                                                ~      m-
                                                                                                                                                0]O.
                                                                                                                                                        00i     '"00"'K N
                                                                                                                                                                                        0       .     '0    0
                      .. . . .........      .......4
                  ......      ....                                     00..0...                                         .     .              .      .             .    ...
                                                                                                            ....          .....             .....            ....
                      .       ......
                           0>..                  ..
                                                ......             ...              .    ... .   &  ...'-(~
                                                                                                         OO
                                                                                                          .  .   . . ai ...        .   .    . ..      . (. ....   ..    .0.00
                                                                                                                                                                            . ..... 0. ...
                                                                                                                                                                                         tO     0.
                                                                                                                                                                                          - ..(..   . . .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                              . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                         w                                                                      CL0   C)'                    41o        aaj
      mJ'                                               CVN.      ~iII2I
                                                                 5.                                1
    0'rl                                                               M0.                                      M0.5.     0     ~     10        (-    0    0      $'  r       -I       M0.'2 0                           .....
           -...                           a .....   ~            ~        ,             o-"                   ....-.         ..
                                                                                                                                                                            ..........
                        -  -  -     -  ---    -   -- -- - --
                                                           -   -. - . . .             . ..           . . .
                                                          00                                                                                                                       ('.01.0
                                                                 T"                                                                                          I
                    >0                                                           '                                         X                  ....            ...                                2       X-
                O W                                             .....
                                                              ......        ...
                                                                             ....... ...      .... .... . ... '
                                                                                                                .. ......  .......        .......
                                                                                                                                                0 '5 9            '4       ~
                                                                            .....             ....           ...
                                            ....               ...            ...             ....           ...
                                                                                       ... 4.      .0        ...            ...               .....                                            ...       ...

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
    -----
    - ..         --    -   --                                                                                                   ----         ---- --      ....
                                         ....                                                                            .....                    .....         ....
                                                                                                                                                  .......       .......
    E~       ~ ~ ~ ~                    . .~       ................                                                                        10        C
                                                                                                                                                                             K
             E0
                                                                 14
                                                                                                            ~:               ~
    w'
                                          i~*'~~~'
                                               O~
                                                             ~0~.              0    .N~          ,            X
                                        00'0                                                          ~'-ci          ~                                                    .X8.
                                      N'   ~ ~                ~       .C'.C ~        ~        x ci        O0              ::M'            ~    CO
                                                                                                                                               N     i               M~
                                                                                                                         ~
                                         C')
                                         CO'~C
                                                            C'
                                                                  5 X  ~
                                                                    00 0
                                                                                ..
                                                                               0'X
                                                                               0
                                                                                   ...... ~
                                                                                     ~  '
                                                                                           ~        '
                                                                                                        )
                                                                                                                             ... ...      CO
                                                                                                                                                                     P:
                                                                                                                                                                               '
                    ......            X. .X                                                                               .....       .....
                                                   .....
                                                                  N I..
                                                                        ... .      ...         . ..           ...
                                                                                                                         ....         ... ..       . ...
                                                                                                                                                   ..  ..        ......
                                                                                                                                                                      .    ......
                                                                        .....
                                                                       .......     ....... ....
                                                                                   .....
                        CO.
                         ....
                                ')~~'     '~~
                                       ......
                                                 0        ...... .......
                                                                    0        ~ 0
                                                                                       C)              ~0'      (~   0
                                                                                                                              CO'
                                                                                                                             r"
                                                                                                                                  rC
                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                         ~~~0~
                                                                                                                                           ~ N0 ~       P~     0~
                                                  ......                ....       .....      .....          .......                1    CC            4
                                              00
                            X0X                                                           'X                               :       CO           01"
                                               N....ci)                                            C      0          .-i        ~       *M~~                     :::       .%I:X
                                                                                                                                                               NI..
                                                                                                                            ~                     ~~0~
         .    . .. .. .         .......             ......              ....                 .. ..        .. .. .     .....
             .....       ....          .....        ... .                                                              i                                     .    ....      .......
           0  ...        .. 0    .                                                                                                     .. 0....            *       '    .
                         4    .                                     N:                     ,  :.X
                                               o                 D           ~ In9 :
                                                                                .X        M              n
                                                                                                       41...

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                                ......        ...... '.      ...                .~.'~       .....        ..        .......                                  0      11         5.        N
       (1-                      '0                                                 00-n'                                                                                                           0          0   .
                                            X.                                           rn0X.-                                                                               -A
                                                                                                     ....              ....
                                                                                                                          ..V.    1...0   ......
   in             .......0          N     00 .~1         N   1 .,      .                  0     1   1      .     '1      ....                ... .        ~      '     .       0
                  .. ..                          ..0..
                                               ...
                                                             ...   .-
                                                                   ..              . ..
                                                                                                                                                            -            --- --
                 ........ ----
                             ----
                                        Z
                                       ---
                                            '.11".'
                                              X
                                                -      ---- -          ---         -------
                                                                                                                          0            ~ 0M1 ........
                                                                                                                                    ~('$       <0         0    . 0              .
                                                                                                                                                                                    ....
                                                                                                                                                                                       0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
           0Ix
                                   1.
                                   15
                                       1.1    ~~
                                         0 (1 ~       0
                                                          ~
                                                         w00 M
                                                           0 0
                                                            0
                                                                   ~00 .V~*"~
                                                                          M00A:
                                                                           0 :: C
                                                                                         r.00V
                                                                                           0
                                                                                         t00
                                                                                          00'
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                         w'
                                                                                                         0         0
                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                    U0:
                                                                                                                                    0       .~01
                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                           t'
                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                            "'      0
    01..                    N .....
                            6....
                                          000~0
                                      (V'I00..
                                                   .
                                                               '
                                                             *:S.
                                                                               ~
                                                                                  2
                                                                                         C)1
                                                                                           0       00
                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                  ..0
                                                                                                ....
                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                    ".
                                                                                                                                     -     :..i                  .X::.:Xj
                                                                                                                                                                                                1]
                            ~
                        NI~~~~~~...                         ...... N0..                                                                      .110                    010             .          ..
 C   -          0xV'0        0    0                                                       -1                                    :X
                01:            ::.,N          ss                                                                                                                01                          0N
                                                                        ....         ..     ...            ....                                             ,    ~                ~         0011          WTuLI,
                                           150       0   N0 4'        1..."'        01          ......              0     ...           . .....           0        (
                                                         M1              In                              0::\:
                                                                          00                           0        0   00 N I           . .. 0.,     .         'l   ... M
                    ....        .....                 ......
                                                              I
                                                             ......
                                                                              l
                                                                             0 ....     ......
                                                                                                    N* B
                                                                                                .'.....   0..0
                                                                                                                 C3          Ni     01.,
                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                            0    0    O 2   0    0':: - '
                                                                                                                                X-....*        ::, :      I- ::          .*0       ::W-*
                      1{     00        NI        0                                                       C?               'I'w
                                                                                                                          0:                              00
            0LL                                                                                                                                          -:    :XS V '              10    Li'      "L
                            '15'D0                10-1       0      ~~
                                                                 '0Ll.
                                                                                    ~                ~             ~01    ,0
                                                                                                                                 - M.~        00
            1~X                                                                                 .......                                                                                 0
                                                             cn~
                                                                                       00          I.           ... ..
                                                                                                          u.,l1.....1            .....
                                                                                                                                               ...    ~
                                                                                                                                                     1-'
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                   L)~
                                                                                                                                                                      i       ~
                                                                                                                                                                            0100'X.:~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......
                                                                                                iij42

  WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
          EXAMPLE 2: ALGORITHM DEVELOPMENT BASED ON DATA FROM A
                                       COMPANION STUDY
[00150] The Cleveland Clinic ("CC") Companion study consists of three patient cohorts and
separate analyses for each cohort as described in Table 2. The first cohort (Table 2) includes
men with low to high risk (based on AUA criteria) prostate cancer from Gene ID study 09
002 who underwent RP at CC between 1987 and 2004 and had diagnostic biopsy tissue
available at CC. Cohorts 2 and 3 include men with clinically localized Low and Intermediate
Risk (based on AUA criteria) prostate cancer, respectively, who might have been reasonable
candidates for active surveillance but who underwent radical prostatectomy (RP) within 6
months of the diagnosis of prostate cancer by biopsy. The main objective of Cohort I was to
compare the molecular profile from biopsy tissue with that from radical prostatectomy tissue.
The main objective of Cohorts 2 and 3 was to develop a multigene predictor of
upgrading/upstaging at RP using biopsy tissue in low to intermediate risk patients at
diagnosis.
[00151] Matched biopsy samples were obtained for a subset of the patients (70 patients)
from the gene identification study. Gene expression of the 81 selected genes and the 5
reference genes (ARF 1, ATP5E, CLTC, GPS 1, PGK 1) were compared in the RP specimens
and the biopsy tissue obtained from these 70 patients.
 [00152] The 81 genes were evaluated in Cohorts 2 and 3 for association with upgrading and
upstaging. The association between these 81 genes and upgrading and upstaging in Cohorts 2
and 3 are shown in Table 3. P values and standardized odds ratio are provided.
 100153] In this context, "upgrade" refers to an increase in Gleason grade from 3+3 or 3+4 at
the time of biopsy to greater than or equal to 3+4 at the time of RP. "Upgrade2" refers to an
 increase in Gleason grade from 3+3 or 3+4 at the time of biopsy to greater than or equal to
4+3 at the time of RP.
                                                43

   WO 2013/116144                                                                           PCT/US2013/023409
                                                    TABLE 2
 i         Subset of patients from Gene ID study       70               e   Comparison of gene expression hrm
           09-002 Who underwent RP' at CC                                   biopsy sample with gene expression
           between 1987 and 2004 and had                                    from RP' specimen (Co-Primary
           diag~nostie biopsy tissue available aItCC                        Objective)
                                                                       1    Explore association of risk of
           Patients from the orig'inai stiatified                           rcurrence af'tei RP' with gene
           eohort sample with available biopsy                              exVpression from biopsy sample and
           tissue blocks                                                    gene expression from RP' sarnple
                                                                             explore association of' risk of'
                                                                             recurrence after RP' with gene
                   __________exoression                                                 from RIP samples
12       [Low Risk Patients from CC database of         92              *   Association between gene expression
           patients who were biopsied, and then                             from biopsy sample and likelihood of
           underwent RI' at CC between 1999 and                             upgrading/upstaging in tissue
          12010                                                             obtained at prostateetomy
                                                                        .(Co-Primary        Objective)
           All patients in database who rneet
           rnminum tumor tissue cr'iteria
      3    Intermediate Risk Patients from CC         175               s   Association beween gene expresson
           database of patients who were biopsied,                          fronm biopsy sample arid likelihood of
           and then underwent RI' at CC between       Iupgrrading/upstaging                        in tissue
            1999 and 2010                                                   obtained at orostateetomy
           All patients in database who meet
           minimum tumor tissue criteria                                   _____________________
 [00154] Several different models were explored to compare expression between the RP and
 biopsy specimens. (Genes were chosen based on consistency of expression between the RP
 and biopsy specimens. Figures 2A-2E are the scatter plots showing the comparison of
 normalized gene expression (Cp) for matched samples from each patient where the x-axis is
 the normalized gene expression from the PGP PP sample (PGP) and the y-axis is the
 normalized gene expression from the biopsy sample (BX). Figures 3A -3D show range plots
 of gene expression of individual genes within each gene group in the biopsy (BX) and PGP
 RP samples.
 [00155] After evaluating the concordance of gene expression in biopsy and PP samples, the
 following algorithms (RS models) shown in Table 4 were developed where the weights are
 determined using non-standardized, but normalized data. Some genes, such as SRD5A2 and
 GSTM2, which fail within the cellular organization gene group, were also evaluated
 separately and independent coefficients were assigned (see the "other" category in Table 4).
 In other instances, GSTMI and GSMT2 were grouped as an oxidative "stress" group and a
                                                        44

 WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
coefficient was assigned to this "stress" group (see RS20 and RS22 models). Other genes,
such as AZGPI and SLC22A3, which did not fall within any of the gene groups, were also
included in certain algorithms (see the "other" category in Table 4). Furthermore, the
androgen gene group was established to include FAM13C, KLK2, AZGPI, and SRDSA2.
Some genes such as BGN, SPARC, FLNC, GSN, TPX2 and SRD5A2 were thresholded
before being evaluated in models. For example, normalized expression values below 4.5
were set to 4.5 for TPX2 and normalized expression values below 5,5 were set to 5.5 for
SRD5A2.
                                               45

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                         PCT/US2013/023409
                                N         LIW             o                        00 CC    H                              tooo
          L   koo   w
                    O
                    m ,1 -      to          No e N CLI               N C  m        LI iN              H
                                                                                                      N     O     N   N L m m N                H
                                                     oo         o    mn       w       LD w           Ln     -- o           w o o mf.,
                    A 6             e      A    6 6       H    H     H C       H      H     H        6      N         N4    H   H          N   6
       SNW     W       o      NM WCC Co     NA W         1:1
                                                          N          M M
                                                                     CN
                                                                     Co               CD m         Nl ,0                   N (DCM
       Vq D
 Cw                    o        fo    w r        ao   ~   0o n       N m                        mo      eoo     o N rl      N   r-    w
                             N                                           a    '   iN wiN       wo o          o    Ln   O    O   0n         O
          - N m     M-     n440
                           -                 M- 0     -    tL - o-       LfA
                                                                          -om -N    -   HLn
                                                                                         o   -   W I-w A oCA -      OHo     N
                                                                                                                            o    oLI oV    oH) t-o
    -n  =             VHH              IMHILI
                                            M    M0       Mt I'0HN0NVH4                                           N    0    0LIWCA0
                     a. d                  o     o       6       e               e 4
               -I     -oI         C   O   W      L  -I     to    OH      -A      " I 0000              Ai -.      A CCCL        H-     010000 -i
           e 666AA66a6
                -%        r                              A66AoHNoHOooH
                                                               t      6 (,      j      f   6    :     r       ,    -        a     ,         o
                    r     ~           o      o o.1a 0 .       n m o. o                                ol m rs 00 w L 7 co m r4 m 000
          %g     Nq LIL           HO          CA OH       MLL                 N         Lf   00      00           0    COC             HO      NlWa
                         0   ~ Ln~~ 0 w~            ~ r, ~Nm w.~
                                                 m Ln                       ~         r               rH t         nwNr                        a
                 IN  Nt
                          m n     V t         N   0   LA
                                                               Ln    ~D
                                                                 LIwtHLAr-V
                                                                            w                       w
                                                                                                        WVCLCN0m
                                                                                                                N      - ,    ,  -w     N
                                                                                                                                   N LIwC0O
                                                                                                                                               m
  -                 "Imr4                         n                  -wLnNwmomr                                                       "ri
          *46
              <4         6              666666                            666666
                                                                          V-6                                     666666
              H     LI N         CA H- LI N          CAC       C                                C     N     0     C    AC
           c  0H      H. H              L OH H    A 61                                            A      HO__OC                       AAC6 6 A LLNH
                                                                                                                                                66_ A
           wn  -j   V             V   vo                 C       C      N~<W0         N     n        N       NVCA0N0         CACCLI0        C
              <     LI    LI
                          <      <H    0         CA t       WON                        NW       CA uL  OLI             H   C    CA N       H
                                    OH
                             LI CALIH                L    L    L     W                 H    LAV             N     LAN           V46V           0

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
                 oH      o 00
                         Cta    H N  o      N
                                            N      oo
                                                    O  At
                                                       r'     0-r to N LO       a0
                                                                                en     t Oo to,R toto  to w         oN       o       t aoCO to       N    Q HNo 0 M    !     0! 0Cf0 F   00     aN i
                         M        A        r i Hi            rl jn0'                           6C- i ic AA A-1 A4                               A66A                               T!C!w        H
                   Lr          v?             KT       no    us      y   on       &no       A  t CS00 o CACA K- Kn                           r       at Kl      CA Ln 0                  0$ N
                 1             00   eQ     to     -n    N    i,
                                                             o     e0    r,N            N            OR      0
                                                                                                            CQ        o     00       0t
                                                                                                                                     mt                   to          Q      91      !U      00 m
            ZA                    66666                            CA 66                       66           Ci 666666666666
            00
                 o         noH N N 0 N 0 W000 0 N 00                                           0 00
                                                                                                            H0 to    NCONto           00 N 0
                                                                                                                            to N N 0i e t
                                                                                                                                                             CA 0 t H 0 LI               en N
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
      -      o14o                    o N ,0
                         0 NO Co o N NO
                                                   N e to                00 0 0
                                                                          o             0 0o o
                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                      H 00 to 0 H                                o N No
              fu   Nt N             CA to 0, M WD                C0 H00                 N Nn                  NA             N N Cf to 0 N0                                   N o mn             Ct
                 to CO 0 CS ~ CO N to N D CA cl 00 CA CA 0 CA mA HC 0 N to y                                                                                                 N to to             00
                             H! NI H!         H!        Ht               &I     6!      Htt    H      N
                                                                                                     &I      'tHI     Nt
                                                                                                                     Q'      N!               Ht    HHHH                       I
            ~K00LIRKKR&SKUsLICOKiKKKS&SK&K
                  0C CO    0 a       C      00 O       to N          H    o     oP      M       l 00 ao              at N             to K to                 0 N      o to         N     N      N
      SMto               00 0               N      N         N      N N 00           o             00      N, to en                00 CO L H on wi go H N 00 at N                                av
              no          N l        o      CO N        CO q         N ,         to  of        Nl       N e nl                   on 8, 1, o               at H ao o                 H    q       0
         15          W ir A CA CA                  n     o            CACA 6              H      HD HK Hq H                   H        0       0d 0A HA HA 0o 0                      HA H         H
                     ~
                   w
                   N 00 00
                           o O 0        0N          N         ot 0        atC
                                      0 to H en o 0 00 at CA Q 0 N Co 0 0 0 o
                                                                                    H       en Ct            H        Lm N            a,     a     N      en     N
                                                                                                                                                                 o0
                                                                                                                                                                      00en
                                                                                                                                                                       N A H At 0A
                                                                                                                                                                                    0     H      N
                   N      HON                      N         0000                   OoN                 00 ' HO 'Oe                          F FN           t  o                                O
                                          000666600o66600000000666666
                    -toenN                  to 0              H N                0t     Ct     N
                                                                                               r!            N        o to to                                    to 0               N            CO
                   I,,
                   t                  N
                                     VI            CA   o     N    -      N       "    r               N o            o
                                                                                                                      Ifr    N        At           t)o
                                                                                                                                                    '4            o
                                                                                                                                                                  m   to            H             N
                       N   e 00rt               H          0     ND oN         tO                       &               KDO                     Hq      O    N      K    &   O        K      N 00
                   0 CO 0S 00   No C5       6to    toCS 00at0000C to        N     MOC5 to    H jN H oS Ht Qn0     o          a        N tC    N       tt          o    Mt N 0        oLto Noa
                   N     0        0      CO        0Q c It    To   00 O          0        at      0      A        on      0      (I      H     CO N        N      0- H        N     0 0          en
                   A       '!                 c CACA6 66                     CAyK CA    6 K CA          6               CA6           CA6           c       no    Hw H4        H      OH
N
                   00            CA o              0           N        tNA        O         o      to   CAcc         00       t        t N         00    on     a    o      o             t   Ct
        >0                           It      IO    up   C?                                                                   aNtNH00enNO
           .~o6                  6666                            66                            ooooo6oooooooooo
0
  enL                                     N              t     to0         o'N       NN                            n~a                   N            N           N          N           N
                   1- CIA  -- o  a   At- o 0o      r-   mr q-
                                                        no           I-   no     1-     1-     V-         -           e     H       o     1-     o       no    r        - 1-      --1n.       -
                      IDH                                       f(          00 z<              -                          CL          oN                                      LNtojL
          C47
                                                                                         47

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
             ~    0~               N      O                 N    N     N        00          H      HN                  C C H 01           0T    CO           0O    N0)      O
                             Oo           H     H   H     a H                H      6           A      O    o     N      N s-AsOAdAAd
                                                                                                                                    S                 a                  H
          o      no
                 CO
                       Ns H
                         to CO
                                    0      A In 0 no H
                                       0 CO & 0t0          0          0 0 N
                                                                           ON        H q
                                                                                        o
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                OCO I
                                                                                                         ! c!N
                                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                     o! ! o 0
                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                             c! Co
                  So3     rw       Co          o    CA q                                 no          CA p q c o          CA o       WH           ml   A on U             WDn
                     A666 A 6 CD 6 s- rI                              6666666                                       A      HOC              OH           006C                 r4
             0    0    0     N     N      O    N    CO N        CO 0         0)     In     N       H    H    0     N      H      In 0       H   10     0     0     O     r    CO
     -    C N I               0    cO 0           r   0      I    COon N             0     a) N         0    N In        m          LI N         i     In      H         m 60
                  :tN         0    0      0Th H     N      N    N     I      H             N      N     0     0     0     0     N    0    c0           I 0         0     H    N
          N M m2222m2222222222222m25225o
                  NC CA In CS Nl                 HA 00 0)
                                                    N 0T Ct 0 N
                                                                         C     0)
                                                                                     H
                                                                                      In C,
                                                                                            In
                                                                                                  l0 C
                                                                                                  C    N
                                                                                                               C     A
                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                         C) H A 0 CI CA In CA N CIO NCT
                                                                                                                          H     H    CO N       In In        0
                                                                                                                                                                     a     2222S
                                                                                                                                                                           c? In
                                                                                                                                                                               Oo
     -           Inm N       00 mn CO 1                                                                       O
      00 :)
          N
                 In    CO CO C            C    In   CO N        In      0     0      0      N      0O         I    Intr N       N       0     I In          O In      0) In
           CC       00       In      O    H     N        H mI O       N      In      C          CO C)    CO nCO               tNC          COH              NCO          T
                       6      6 6          H    H    H       H   H      0     H      0       0     H    0     H     H     H     0     0    0    N H 0 0 H                      H
               0        O     m100W       N In In            0   O C JO                 a CO o In A o N NOtt                              I0 0          O    N In           C5 H
     ON 10CO      CvIn OR 0"I In      N In -1 HN, 0!       TV0 0 InN No)CO "RU!Q?
                                                       I! OR                                  Dew        NR Cl0n HI OConC;t          a       I
                                                                                                                                            NQ     Ina oIn 0N Q CO H In  CO H0 At In)
                       ) Ln a) ND-t                 CA               m o oC 0 0                             0          N1                                     N0C     I)     0 0 H 0     In 0 N H LO
Nt
               ~~0 COCMONCO0                        MLn0COCO                   CON          -In     N   CA   M   -I       N     InNV       CONCO N                  CN        to
                                            Oddde0006666666666666666660000
                  0 0wm 0)           0
                                  o- m     N
                                          Ln    H    10
                                                      o     1.0 IntC0tO
                                                                  Ho
                                                           nLe                0          oo 10 c n o    H_0nC060QD
                                                                                                      0 N0    N
                                                                                                              N     CO
                                                                                                                     CtCO  0               mSC   0        t N
                                                                                                                                              nOVArynNCKrwofCon    C
                                                                                                                                                                   "        0 C
       '~  to0e
                         14~                                         6c                                    C                   a                                           <A   m 0 NA0C   )C AC A00C AC
            ic-            A00C             !0        r!C          !      !O      INn O nN L t01 1c!n01 !O0HC                     OHr!C! OO!C!O1N1                    C!ri
                                                 -1~~                         't                   el               4
      748      Z     C         CO CO        Int         CO CO 10               10101.               0     CAOCO10           10 10     1.0 CO     10      CO          CO CO CO
            N
                    HH         H      HH          HHH;H           Hn     H-          wHHHH              Ho    H    HDL           H.   wHo t HHD         wHH-0       w
                                 0~~~      ~~                                     t- ,0o a U V)Ln -0 0(Nr                           o t. r 00 V 0 oN 00 L1 u
                                           Ul                ro          n=rqw                                                   a Nt                            n      oHN
                                                                        2"0a-=u                                        In                     anC Cf OUQ )Q          oIn      N
                                                                                     48

  WO 2013/116144                                    PCT/US2013/023409
          on LxN         fn   Ln m Lr
                         o N 'm N
                                        e
                   ill ON -           mw      ON
      o            r'C       -         6LN0o
         nu
               -N              NO M- On      U)
            oo      m    03      t w    anw
                                         -
                            00 N
          no 6o      -   a-        e-      ao
          N
                US N     N     N   O    U
           L to rA        &to
          ~00NCON
                N         c
N
                       o        o- o     o
   C- U,          ONC          N    C    N    U
  O>
                                                 49

  WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                    PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                                                                                                              0
            a                  a                  C              C                a                a                     C                  -    a     g         N        C
                               a                  0              0                                                                                                        .20
                               2n         0      2               0N               2                0           o
                               C:                                                                                                                      9
           *n*      inr
                        0
                                                 it          L"  L'U:
                                                                 r               tfl.*            *            *    N~6 *     ~
                                                                                                                              *    *      *                  *
                                                                                                                                                            *0            *
                                                                 co                  '   Co i 6    o                       .a '.0L
                                                                                                                               m    o   CO          4a 0C          ON
                                      2         9 6                      uH                               _6                        n-
            Lu C.L1wa-                     z      u      Q       uz     wa       w       vzwY_                           w              vfu                  w              u
                                  HLZ N            e               N6NN                                HI                                                      -                     NNN   Nl
             N                   No
                                                                                                     0.         =                             N~             --            N
            Ln                                                                                 u          CL     'n      u
                                                                                                                         6Lu
                    S.-~~
                               2                  2
                                                                                ~         -n
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                         -n -n---------
              )
                                                                                                                        in                    i
             H                  H                                                                                                            -       -                      -      I
                                                           N          N              +
                in4                                                               o-.2 4
                                  .4                                                                                     6D                    6t5        , .                    N    (  6
                         iN<+n                      Z4
                                                   Ln    CC6N_                                                                                 N
    oo ee                                                                              50      N
                                 +.                                                  ++Q
                              too                                        M
            o       CL4
                        ~o.0n+
                                z3
                                0.                 Q3
                                                     H>
                                                   i.j       +~zt~vi
                                                                                  UU
                                                                                      Hu
                                                                                                    L
                                                                                                                                                tL%4
                                         N          ~       ~     N                        ,+       .0r                                                         n
                zN               Z                     n      CH                                                                                                      H zH      to
                  .L                  CL.                qi                                                                          Lsn                  C4n           L
                                                    ..                          ..........              ...     -o     -      -     ----       --------         -.-  ....- ..
                                                                   -I     ko                    -i    ,'     +             a     aC                                C          C
-                                      V-                              +   ~ -u                                            +0                   +0            +0
                                                                   "+               A'.-i
                           >4<                                     <~                                      <~              <i                    4
                          E'.          z                                                                                                        4-C
                                       <n    ,..            +      "'i               +                                     +   . u+
        0     0                     1                N*                                              Lu                                                       co.0   -4
                                       +                     0-. 0t             v)r                        -i              vi                   Lo'           o
                                                                                                                500

  WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                         PCT/US2013/023409
                  uo    x      <o,<                     x-   N          x   -         '-               t        -                                          4x
                                  o          *         *0                             *           *            e                                       a,
                                          Q0          n      om                                                                                     a, +<
                                                                                                                <                        0
                              d                   coa3+                     9                 9                                          0
                                                                                                                                            <
          E-       i                    O                                                                    N     +                +
                  S               u     0                                  u)                                   k.u-w          u              u
         Q         n
                                  X.
                                  en e Cm
                                                         ul~       ~~                 ~ we0.f&0c          *o
                                                                                                           VI
                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                    * tom    0-01
                                                                                                                               m    **    *
                                                                                                                                    Q Co m ** M * *     N
                                                                                                                                                           CI *mH
                                                                                                                                                               M
                                     A0           CD~6 c-0      c0 r10        00               0    0   0  0    c-1            H    OO       00       0  0 0
                                  cn       m                                           d.                                                           N
                                               'C     c(0                                                                                     0     <
                                     -<   -J                                                        N                               N"              -j
                                                                                                                                                    N
                   N               01                                  N               a-                            L-1            VA
                                                                                             0
                                e~~l                                                                                 u              a_
                  N                N               N               N                    N
                            N                      NN                                  NN
    to+                              +                      +                            ++
                                   u               -               o                    o                                                      u
                                   <               <                                                                                           L
                            U-     LU              LU              L                    LL
                                  .........
                                 .C                                                                                -----------
    '.               ........                              -      -------
                                                                     c                                                                        L----I,"
                               N                      N               N                    N                                        N
                                                                   rj ::- a.                   aU-                                             a
                C
                      +               N"                          + -n
          N                                                                                    -
                   N                         an          -a                              CL a-        NNN                                      N
                                                     N----- - - -
                                                  ----                                   ........        .~    .         ~      ...........
                                                                                         uZ                          <z    u <
                                    Z                   Z               Z
           a-      O      c-i           H a                    +LL j      ~HH~                      +               +                  -l      H.
                                                                                                                                               +
     O     a-                                           0            ~ 0 4                     0                      0            CO           +
              O~~~                                               w0                 v c~Cc) c~
9                       CL                           59                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                   Z<            u
                     Z0 <            Za            0-                        <~a                                      oza <Z
          C- 1 0                                                                         w2+                      w +5
                                                                    _                                                                          LU
                                                 u                                                                                      uc       -"
        0                                                                        51

 WO 2013/116144                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                        N                                                0       N
         T               00                    En   T N                           N,                         0                     rN
             x                                                                                                              N              N
                                                        x                    x                     N                    +      to x
                                                                       t          N
                                                        C                    C          &W  *                                      C
               o    e        aeu                                       umej      r                          uen
                          *      *       ~6              *   -tO           *   *      *   *   eoc
                                                                                                     oo
                                                                                                            ***
                                                                                                                   +No
                ++o0o                 'ien         gooOL+nu.w.*+                   oL.enL2L   56            in      N.H
                                                                                                                    c     ,enL
      b
      Oq
            ~  * * **         *
                                   toNN       N4 N NIA
                                                            N
                                                               i
                                                                                          *   0*
                                                                        LnOIVN'iOm 0rl NrlCO'wtr
                                                                                                     ***            *   *
                                                                                                                           0)
                                                                                                                                 *  *
                                                                                                                               cANN'05
                                                                                                                                       *   *
                                                                                                                                         NONN
                        6       66          6+o                                    oo+oo    6            oc                    e
                                                .N
                     ... .. ........... .......N.
                                                 LwL
                                                        H             N N                     N               NN
                   u          u                     uL           u      ua
                                                                          -;
                  NN                                NNNNN
    Z
         LU                                                      6- vi Q- it                      CL V                         C n
    o ~. -                    a                                          ou
                a.a.a.a                                                                                      a.                a
           a.~0                                              H0          HH
                                                                         >e
                               oooo'oo
                   4            +                     4                                                        ++
                        x+
      U+                                    +                   +                   +                          +                 +      a
                   a9                                0
                                                                +
                                                                         u          +
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               +                 +
                                                                                                                                         m
S++                                         +
                                           0D        09                                                                         0_
                                                                                                                                U
                                                                                                                                caCU    a
          cNN N~~~c
          S                    Hn,                   +)                  +       5
          er                                         o
             -----------
                            -J -J                                         4                                   -J5a

WO 2013/116144                                                PCT/US2013/023409
                     LL
                          4<           L1 *
                           0    6  QA 4    c6      0
   S~       4*             6nfN      0r       fN
  0            r,    co    m       L)CI ul    MflL4>
    w
       Q0
           ~               I
                             0
                                   -oQ
o
                                                     Nz
                            Nul
                                U-      m
                  --     IC
                             *             X,        *
      Nl                                     -1   )  r
                                                 4n    nOH
   o                                                  Uro
    thN
w        N                                  fltf
                        CL                                 53

 WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
[00156] Table 5A shows the standardized odds ratio of each of the RS models using the data
from the original Gene ID study described in Example I for time to cR and for upgrading and
upstaging and the combination of significant upgrading and upstaging. Table 5B shows the
performance of each of the R.S models using the data from the CC Companion (Cohorts 2 and
3) study for upgrading and upstaging and the combination of significant upgrading and
upstaging. In this context, "upgrading" refers to an increase in Gleason grade from 3+3 or
3+4 at biopsy to greater than or equal to 3+4 at radical prostatectomy. "Significant
upgrading" in this context refers to upgrading from Gleason grade 3+3 or 3+4 at biopsy to
equal to or greater than 4+3 at radical prostatectomy.
[001571 In addition, the gene groups used in the RS25 model were evaluated alone and in
various combinations. Table 6A shows the results of this analysis using the data from the
Gene Identification study and Table 6B shows the results of this analysis using the data from
Cohorts 2 and 3 of the CC Companion Study.
[00158] The gene expression for sorne genes may be thresholded, for example SRD5A2
Thresh  =  5.5 if SRD5A2 <5.5 or SRD5A2 if SRD5A2 >5.5 and TPX2 Thresh           = 5.0 if TPX2
<5.0 or TPX2 if TPX2 25.0, wherein the gene symbols represent normalized gene expression
values.
100159] The unsealed RS scores derived from Table 4 can also be resealed to be between 0
and 100. For example, RS27 can be resealed to be between 0 and 100 as follows:
 [00160] RS (scaled) = 0 if 13.4 x (RSu+10.5)<0; 13.4 x (RSu+10.5) if
On13.4x(RSu+10.5)<100; or 100 if 13.4 x (RSu+105)>100.
 [00161] Using the scaled RS, patients can be classified into low, intermediate, and high RS
groups using pre-specified cut-points defined below in Table B. These cut-points define the
boundaries between low and intermediate RS groups and between intermediate and high RS
groups. The cutpoints were derived from the discovery study with the intent of identifying
 substantial proportions of patients who on average had clinically meaningful low or high risk
of aggressive disease, The scaled RS is rounded to the nearest integer before the cut-points
                          N
 defining R.S groups are applied,
                                           TABLE B.
               .............
                GRisk                               Sco
            Low                       f       Less than 16
            Intermediate                      Greater than or equal to 16 and less than 30
            Hih                               Greater than or equal to 30
                                                54

      WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                        PCT/US2013/023409
      CO
      4L
        V,                                                                                           I     -4
      C
      SCC
                 tor
           a           N      Coo           C       N    C
                                                               2(
                                                                  V      ~~N         O      o
                                                                                               V
                                                                                                         CC            Wo+2o+2o               oC      C
                                                                                                                                                                     N
                         Cod 7        it       N   (                                       N         t     Co       Co       oo (0     ( O     C    (       oCo
                       V-qco                  CC r!-
                                            r4Ii"       N C1 1-- N N No No No CN N $-                                  rq N rn Y) N                  N    -      N Qo
                                                                                                                                                                 T0  N w)+
                                                                                                                                                                         N
              to  St N.i     N      m    0   NNm4 N C                   ( V N N 0 NC C N V -- it 0 N
                                                          - N (N oHoNoNoNoN                                                        N'tV N      N*     N   N       N0 rNT VNr
       (C
       tw   LN         c             No   N~ co     N     in    N     N     Ni   Co    -4~     d o v)        N    oo           r-    o  ' Co  r, ? 4        -,-     V o    Cor
           m      2      04        C6 C-f fli cSi Kl ai 4                   v ?.& i       AV     L6?4       4     i      q f &ni           4    Vi 4 I      a? 4          4rtr
                                               In (.0          a)w                                                      u-    o           m   r                       .
               0                                                     Ln V,                          Co V-       Ln Co Co Co V Ofi                    47 0' 01 N
           -'        r      + o2   rl+               +2+ ai   +2i ai++
                                                              r-Z2                              air+Zr      2+       +               6o +2     +2+ t- +2    6r 2+         ,
                                                                                                                 Ni     N0   N            N    N mN- 0 N-Co N        NN V V
                  N
                 +2    CN       Nq (0
                              -N:            (7,  NV lN NNl (N f N Nt0 0~ Cf N NM NWNN          m~. N,N N N)t    N           H2CN t       0 n Co
             j                                                 N7 to      Co0 +2    to   W OO N Co      Co
                                                                                                        oq              o oq
                                                                                                                                   V) N)       :to    Nn Co     to   V) N Lf)q
                                cq~~       ~~                                 ll            ml                                      O:    -l       ' m          N m
 r..
      as
    T                                                                                           N    N      m2 N        N      N    N)    N    N      N    N      N   N   N
                 N             N3) +     02     N     N   V
                                                          N    N           .N         N
                                                                                     LN    N
                                         rN     N2 toj   "7 0       N   N (0     (0     N        N     Co N ON          V     0I     N     CoN NW         N 2 N O4N         N
                                            CO~~oC)~     Co    V1     Cot                  V
                                                                                           m0 ItN           +2   CoOwt                             oVm~               wtCO
                                 V~~~-                                         V-- V-    V-   V-      H0 N- N Co1           to1 NN 0 NC N l           N o+2C N Co4 N      N
,44~                     NA t.Nn Nn         N        LA
                                                     N        LN      N)    NA   Co   Co  Co    N)    N      N Co Co C             FA       i Co     Co Co Co Co          Co
                  w      r acC~=2        =     ccK <i             a                                      VK               (        Co                 M, 01-Oo+   w         2
                               &      ~..................                oW~tVttoN                             oV           LI        oVo~55I~

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                      PCT/US2013/023409
                     00         0-i         Nq      od             O     e                co                      t, v)     ob     O     N n -       , - ,         c
         Q-~     0       ID      L    0l    co  N    O   i     r) in       H r"       N      N     in       W C N            "   In                    z    t         0
            Cu                  N    N                     "J      coCr          N      r
                                                                                       00          0)       Cr)in N
                                N   NN               N     ad      M            N      w     Ni    m                                     NiL      N      q
                                                                                                                                                         N         N        m
               m~               ~           ~            m
                                                                                er
                                                                                                  N m rl    00           N if n     r C - irir
      Cu
      CL
                  N
                 CCN
                   N  Hri            Hq0inC          N        o       ~                      Co 00 O         N
                                                                                                             NO0                            00
                                R qLl       L3  N    lp    tr      lfl      l
                n~UN       f     N            HN-                                                                   6c) ON C       gCI i N N      .H    "sc 6l
                  C       )i              Cr                N       t      N    iN     N     in                    N N n InN     N N             )               N i         -n
CC    C~
 u                        --                -     -   -     --             -~    -~    -~    -~    -~  -       -----
                 tO,
                      cin           t   k.0
                                             N0   w
                                                         NO
                                                     to CO
                                                                   Wo
                                                                      m         to
                                                                                  H
                                                                                        HN
                                                                                          CiCI       OoN w
                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                       oo      w Co C
                                                                                                                              HN
                                                                                                                              co       N           N
                                                                                                                                                         - HO         w CN
                                                                                                                                                                           to
       C         H     H                    N   i       N            6      6                                                             6
                                                                                                                                         -4    -4
             >   NC               NC                                                       ~NCO     NH    ~                                NO CO       N                N N i
       CO
                             in     H O O o C             CC        in        N   C       tt       in    H    N      OCTin           N           OC'N               t        n
                              intofOcfl~tC
                              Oin                                     r-         CDC             toN         to     kNtoVoton                  NHHCwO
                   i    in in    r- in in N n               in in in in in in                                 N          (NqNN N01 in .aC             in      N i-
                                                                                                                                                           O010'         l     - A 4V- - 11 rIr .
                     C4
                                                                                    )V
                                                                                         r.a    N- N- N- N-
                                                                                               A inV          .
                                                                                                                 Ni
                                                                                                                    tnV
                                                                                                                        H- N-     5 5)t 5 5 5ioN       V
                                                                                                                                                        N     N
                                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                              N
               CO        v        .      iI       A    L         )CA         L
             COe                                       w      =       c       t                     w    =          w    w     =    c-      cc-w              c
       F-6

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
                                  CN          00        L n          r- m N m                          -     Iil    0  r-       N*      00
                     Stw
                                                   n w              Ln        m c atL
                   N      NN
                                        N CN-;o
                                        I~~r    CN       NNNCNw     rN oN   N        N     N    om       0N  C4
                                                                                                              onm       CVOV
                                                                                                                        ro         N'N
                               01    W~C          RR O1                 rI1               ri           ?                    W
                                                                                                                           .W
                                                   -t           -I  'jt            '
                                  -          00       o           mo         o                  m              No               oN
                        'n 01
       0111~---                                       -   -~  -       -~    -~   -         -      -~   -~    -         -.
                                                               r-I   w.9           O' OC             -1r L~r       3  0 0 CO       winc
                                                                                                         N                     N         N
                                                                                                                          NN
                         COC
            0101                  110010                  LCIN               01nN                0iN                           tOO      0
                                      NVN                           N         Na                     '       N          0AW             01
                                  IT     mCOi01           m     wONN0m0m10                                    1           01              l
                                                                                                                                         COm
                                        0~1N             1N          C'vO              Nl0                                 NO            C
                         0-   0     --                               o-o            e6o&ao  - - -o
                                                                                                                m11     f50     0        97
                                   N1HNr                 N      N            NN         v    rNeNvA                     0N1
                             QOtN000aDc                          N 0          WCJ1'0          Clcot                     0001
                                   w     00               00 O t0         0       cn                                       NN 00 w 0
                                                                                                                             mcN       N
                                                   VX
    OC
         0      0:
                         o              C     uJA          o4N          NNNNNNN                                           CNN            N<
     .  .........
tc
                            25                                                                    xo
                                          E                                                                               CN
                                               N LAN0 WU1                           et                   eW1u             u  0           CO
        <~~~o        wa5
                                                                   L6V                Co w wwu wo w                   u            w      Nu
                                                    7.

WO 2013/116144                                                                                   PCT/US2013/023409
               .G                              C
                                    R 3'      en N    7? ~       R n0enR-~N0
                                           w                    14e         r            N           A
                                 e                     Ncn                o         N
                                                                                     'NaoHNWoliH         0
                               N 2   wn ' 03      (nN(Gi~-i
                                                      Co        a?    0   WN N        y       N    N N N IN
                                                                                                         r
                             NN           H
                              U)e
                                                                                                     rq NInC O C -I i CN Cn (
                           gun
                78
                                 ONe
                      03-~
                                        -
                                 cc         -    -~     -~   -
                                                                    -   -
                           at4rI  6                                  H           HO              r
                                                                                                      o   co
                                                       &H
                                                                    c     4ed'          '       c        oN
U                                                                                               N&
                                10i                                                                   C
                                                            NN
                   ~o             e                         <oo                        o    co
  c                                               _                            6      6
                                            C     c          Cc             Cc               Cc            C
                                       N        o.                .       N      L.         N    L
                                      aj
                                      C         C                ON            d
                                                                               C           a    0
                                               58(             300           3   0o           0   0o0

  WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
         EXAMPLE    3:   UOUE STACK ANALYSIS TO IDENTIFY Co-EXmgEgSS              GENES
[00162] The purpose of the gene clique stacks method described in this Example was to find
a set of co-expressed (or surrogate) biomarkers that can be used to reliably predict outcome
as well or better than the genes disclosed above. The method used to identify the co
expressed markers is illustrated in Figure 4. The set of co-expressed biomarkers were
obtained by seeding the maximal clique enumeration (MCE) with curated biomarkers
extracted from the scientific literature. The maximal clique enumeration (MCE) method
[Bron et al, 1973] aggregates genes into tightly co-expressed groups such that all of the genes
in the group have a similar expression profile. When all of the genes in a group satisfy a
minimal similarity condition, the group is called a clique. When a clique is as large as
possible without admitting any 'dissimilar' genes into the clique, then the clique is said to be
maximal. Using the MCE method, all maximal cliques are searched within a dataset. Using
this method, almost any degree of overlap between the maximal cliques can be found, as long
as the overlap is supported by the data. Maximal clique enumeration has been shown [Borate
et al, 2009] to be an effective way of identifying co-expressed gene modules (CGMs).
         1. Definitions
 [00163] The following table defines a few terms commonly used in the gene clique stack
 analyses.
                                              Table 7
          Term                                            Definition
 Node                      The abundance of a              the mues of GM an
                                                       (en(for                         s
 Edge                      A\ line connecting two nodes, indicating co-expression of the two
                            nodes
 Graph                      A collection of nodes and edges
 Clique                       graph with an edge connecting all pair-wise combinations of
                            nodes in the graph
 maximal clique           [ A clique that is not contained in any other clique
 Stack                      A\graph obtained by merging at least two cliques or stacks such that
                            the overlap between the two cliques or stacks exceeds some user
                            defined threshold.
 gene expression            A two-dimensional matrix, with genes listed down the rows and
 profile                    samples listed across the columns. Each (ij) entry in the matrix
                            corresponds to relative mRNA abundance for gene i and sample
         2. Examples of cligues and stacks
  [00164] Figure 5 shows a family of three different graphs. A graph consists of nodes
  (numbered) and connecting edges (lines). Figure 5(a) is not a clique because there is no edge
  connecting nodes 3 and 4. Figure 5(b) is a clique because there is an edge connecting all pair
                                                  59

  WO 2013/116144                                                                 PCT/US2013/023409
wise combinations of nodes in the graph. Figure 5(c) is a clique, but not a maximal clique
because it is contained in clique (b). Given a graph with connecting edges, the MCE
algorithm will systematically list all of maximal cliques with 3 or more nodes. For example,
the graph in Figure 6 has two maximal cliques: 1-2-3-4-5 and 1-2-3-4-6.
[00165] When based on gene expression data, there are typically large numbers of maximal
cliques that are very similar to one another. These maximal cliques can be merged into stacks
of maximal cliques. The stacks are the final gene modules of interest and generally are far
fewer in number than are the maximal cliques. Figure 7 schematically illustrates stacking of
two maximal cliques.
           3.  Seeding
 [00166] For the purposes of finding surrogate co-expressed markers, biomarkers from the
 literature can be identified and then used to seed the MCE and stacking algorithms. The basic
 idea is as follows: for each seed, compute a set of maximal cliques (using the parallel NICE
 algorithm). Then stack the maximal cliques obtained for each seed, yielding a set of seeded
 stacks. Finally, stack the seeded stacks to obtain a "stack of seeded stacks." The stack of
 seeded stacks is an approximation to the stacks that would be obtained by using the
 conventional (i.e. unseeded) NICE/stacking algorithms.The method used to identify genes
 that co-express with the genes disclosed above illustrated in Figure 4 and is described in more
 detail below,
           3.1 Seeded MCE algorithm (steps 1-4)
 [00167] 1. The process begins by identifying an appropriate set, S,, of seeding genes. In the
 instant case, the seeding genes were selected from the gene subsets disclosed above.
  [00168} 2. With the seeding genes specified, select a measure of correlation, R(gsg 2),
 between the gene expression profiles of any two genes,      glg2,  along with a correlation
 threshold below which g1g2, can be considered uncorrelated. For each seeding gene s in the
 seeding set Ss, find all gene pairs (s,g) in the dataset such that R(s,g) is greater than or equal
 to the correlation threshold. Let G, be the union of s and the set of all genes correlated with s.
 For the instant study, the Spearman coefficient was used as the measure of correlation and 0.7
  as the correlation threshold.
  [001.69] 3. Compute the correlation coefficient for each pair-wise combination of genes
  (gi,gj) in G Let X, be the set of all gene pairs for which R(gjg) is greater than or equal to the
  correlation threshold. If the genes were plotted as in Figure 5, there would be an edge (line)
  between each pair of genes in X.
                                                   60

 WO 2013/116144                                                                 PCT/US2013/023409
[00170] 4. Run the MCE algorithm, as described in Schmidt et al (J. Parallel Distrib,
Comput. 69 (2009) 417-428) on the gene pairs X, for each seeding gene.
        32 Seeded stacking algorithm (steps 5-6)
[00171] The purpose of stacking is to reduce the number of cliques down to a manageable
number of gene modules (stacks), Continuing with steps 5 and 6 of Figure 4:
[001721 5, For each seeding gene, sort cliques from largest to smallest, i.e. most number of
nodes to smallest number of nodes. From the remaining cliques, find the clique with the
greatest overlap. If the overlap exceeds a user-specified threshold T, merge the two cliques
together to form the first stack, Resort the cliques and stack(s) from largest to smallest and
repeat the overlap test and merging. Repeat the process until no new merges occur.
 1001731 6. One now has a set of stacks for each seeding gene. In the final step, all of the
seeded stacks are combined into one set of stacks, a. As the final computation, all of the
stacks in a are stacked, just as in step 5, This stack of stacks is the set of gene modules used
for the instant study.
 1001741 Genes that were shown to co-express with genes identified by this method are
 shown in Tables 8-11. "Stack ID" in the Tables is simply an index to enumerate the stacks
 and "probeWt" refers to the probe weight, or the number of times a probe (gene) appears in
the stack,
                                                 61

       WO 2013/116144                                                                                          PCT/US2013/023409
                                                  -------                 [~
                                                               ------ ....1                               ------ ------ --
                      0        0lo O0          0 00         000C0O                                                            cc0z
                     w0
                      C
                           t
                             4 oc                               ; nP
                                                               uu~ ouu                zIJ
                                                                                                 0           I                   -I
                                   (.U        u    U   U     U      Ulu         Uu     U     U~   U   ui  U     U   U    U    Ut    U     UZ
                             <                   <4i-                             <     <z<<<<                         <4
                      a. C L 0.    n-  fcc c-   L,- Q a     - C L cc cc a. c a. D- a- nc: C L c cc                    a.  cc- Q.     cc CLL31 C c' L
                 ini                     -n   rA: ro %^i                                   cn Z  A in           VA 'Az   Lln,       V,    6
          j                         U                                        U   H                                            UA'~       ~4~I Cr
                                  1LI1                    LL                                                          L
                                                                                                                     cm
                  te  U~:i          U       U                                                 u                                c' U. Ln. U - C. V,
             %n
             Lts                        Nc rc -q: r.      m. m,              -r    c    cc    uL
                                                                                                  .~   ~~  .     .4 ..   .. ..
                  z                                 izzzzZ                   zzzzzzzZ                                                        :
                                                 0    D(        D00           ,(        D0             D(                 Do               D
  CCL
(           C
                                                 0c                          Tr 1f               00M                     r0
                                        z                                                                  0             01 0
      t                           -    U     U    1-     U,                    _        l' U -1Uh           U'U       w!U       0    s.'
                                                                                             -t -11
                                                                  62

  WO 2013/116144                                                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
                              ...... ...... ..................................
                    u                            V
              o
               C=C
                   Ux   jU    j  U
                                      CC cr
                                           W1U
                                                 alt Lz
                                                         i
                                                          w
                                                             UU    U U' U U~ U
                                                                wt wt    c' wc wc w
                                                                                           U
                                                                                              o::
                                                                                                  U w UIU          U~ ut
                                                                                                          c c cr. w t L
                                                                                                                               u~
                                                                                                                              Qcr cl
                                                                                                                                       A   u
         n    V)                 to'to     to    UNozn                            vi(   iv    .   <V .    lz      n   v          )
           .........                             --- -----                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                  . ......   ~ c
    0                                             1                                                               t
                 "               L2
                                                     0 c (D                                     Is            s         I             CO
                        LLu                          u   wf)V                                        --       uH
                                                                                                - --- ------
in~~           ~~....<<..<<4.4..44                                                                                                    44
      mlr                                    ~ '      A        '                    , N     '      A<                                  A'
         4-~
     iA 11 Ln
                   oooaaaaaaaaa
                   Il   It)
                         ccrU'U       &ntU
                                         :U    Ln     U             D           U
                                                                               .o iD  U
                                                                                      L    U.D
                                                                                                   ~3330000
                                                                                                   .    Dz o k0         Uet)
                                                                                                                      k0U.      DU'Ut
                                  44                                                               <                  <<        <       U
     tfi            a.:       enU     m'~tt                m zuu U >Qu,       u    U        V:c          <,U      Un U       U
7t                              1      'A   M                      roM MC4N     I                        ir.m  mor4 Nin1in m 44            4
           0 1            ...... -----
                                     --                            63                                    -- --------

WO 2013/116144                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
  N----------------         :r      A LA n     V      )    LA     LA   Ln'   Ln LA       LA   LrA L.      LA LA     l      L      '    n     i
    zC                                     cc' or     ncc         c   cc   cc    c     cc:c                         c      cc, W-       cc ac,
     i~~    ~ ~~                       0
                               ---- -----     LAV) v V LA, L 6nA L LA LI A                                        LAA ) I U Ln LA )               l
                                   '4    Ufl cA OD          'N         4                -4 z          LA m0 z4 m             co a)      N '
                           w     l
                               Lxi     N  mi
                                           N,  C   N
                                                 NLN         .11  4)       0   I   00o   mOO m~tH C 0) Cl ( L
                                                                                                        0iV   U   n      0
                                                                                                                      w)c000fr,
                                                                                                                                        a) fhr
X  CDCD                               <~0
          dcu                  IN~
                    Z C---     a. N       N          NL               CCV)CL                      NI
                                                ki                                               LIi         >I LA.              C/fl      L
                                                                     LALL(D'                         tC                    i     CL    4)
                           --S           -I                                                      ... ... ...--
                                                                                                1                          1-4
                             a. rq    cc                                             C       rq   Nl                         q   ,
                      S               H          i           4         AZ              U     >~4        t           3U           0             Ic
                               70 2E           2 2                222                  21;t                i222                        2:
           an                         V     IL         lV          )V            '            ntL         f   )V             t           )v
                       v-... ....                                            -----                 - -------              ---         ...
              CN                              4--I   co               N Nl     NN N-      N   ~               l         z-     N N.       NL
                                          '4
                                         1-1                      -      J    I         -                 -I -1    00-
      CDC
      CLi
                      x        ~
                                _4 cc '40
                                    CIO    z
                                                        00      O            LL)            N
                                                                                                  'i U ' <U
                                                                                                                rq
                                                                                                                ~     C
                                                                                                                            z        : IN U
                 aj                   LL                    UU
          mC              m
                                                                                  ri    r
                               V)tD .     uu         uu 64u                 uu                    uu

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
        4     N       4l    4    f4     Nj     4    N     N     N   C4 N       4                           IN IN         NC 4q      N4           N     ,4 N 4          N
  Wt    USn    IJ     n   Ul      l   Sn   ISI    V)n S n   Z n S n     In n   U)Sn S      nS      n    : n      &n                                                      Sn n L1 UL t' l  L) V
                                                                                                                                                                 Jc
Kn
                                               o     0    az0Qn               C)    t U)                          0           c l U)                    :tU)   0       0n
  c9
  w o    tS
                                  r =o              w a:o o = wco              R Iol            Lf:0
                                                                                                                         R0-=              RI
                          Le'                       vN V)                      l
                                                                              Nn    LN)        n
                                                                                              NA     U      n
                                                                                                            Nn   UN'n NA -     )V          f      n          N.1   NI  Nf
                                              r                                                                           --  -0     -4    -0 ---- ---       Sn--
          0                                                                          N ZH Il         m
                                                                                                     Un
                                                                                                                       n   ~            m       - j N 'n
                                                                                                                                                 M     M     M      5i ''r-
                           -i                   w   N    N
                                                         0<    -4  m-r               oc m            oc     m~         2w
                         Cc       c      O4                   M.                     r,                       120        0'~               a)      CO                W 0tIt tr " M , r,  .
                     H    <C --           -L                                                '-        H
                                                               <)U       zfU)        l< 1S                                    a[(1(              M                 -9
                                    2                                                                                                      z2
     a.
      '0     -
 H
    z[
                     t~U
                         Nn
                            N
                               ;      N    v -I   Sn
                                                     rIv
                                                       )  S
                                                               Z-i2
                                                            V iV n
                                                                                ir          r         ;;j2
                                                                                                     2-i2 i:-Z
                                                                                                             Ua    U-     UL   UL     UL
                                                                                                                                                  rh
                                                                                                                                                                 1lL
               Sn'   c Sn z 0         00    ID     z0                0 0'   00 00       '4       M~ 0~        N,    Sn     0    N      N'   00                           a-t
               IF'vn                                          ) S              Sn     t'-10                 M-             Sn   '4     '4,  C4       H   00t t
            &                                ---------       -----     .....                                                             ------
     jN                       1                                   1                                                                                                         j
U              0-c                       Mc U1 Ms        u-icc
                                                                t 4J C N      cc cct        z   c U                                I               jj
                                                                              Lt.
                     Cot                 0          zt                                               U      U      nV
             UU                                                                                D<                   )(D(
                       cj t                                                   65

 WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
---------- -......-..-..-.-....-                           ..-.-.-... -. -....                                                                                     ...
    *CIuL     r      LA LA U LA LA )              U-1U.      n    ai     L        LA     '    VA i                            LA     ul tn U       LeA    LALLA    U LA
                                    C I do OIOcoLaO0                                                                                                         Q 0                               z 0 o -n
        w                                                                                                                                          CCLZ OfO                           :    OfC     Ccwa-
                    V) LA     VI: (n~ L           WIV)       V)    VI               L A tfn       L    A V                                       V) V ;n V LA: ulA n              lA:   zL
              y0       Nt~            CL      cCo
                                                      m,
                                                       Cel
                                                            Uct 1zzm mci0  N FCo 'In
                                                                                                    i rC    cilo              o
                                                                                                                              CA      tO
                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                             Nt 1-f
                                                                                                                                                     ,        r :t   i
                                                                                                                                                                         4I "
    ws~              Ni         -- i          CA CA           rCv                      ,    E o     Co tLA       LA 0 4        cI       mA M      m     N     N     Ii
                                                                                                            CCs
                                                                                                    V-               <v'      C     L
        O       n        <        ,                                                      -       z                    -
                                                                  v--                             ILaL                   0             ~                            L      H
                    L"W U.   LL      LL   LL.   L U   LL       .  U                U L        0                   u-       i-u uuL       L     L   U     LL   LL       L-    LL
          T:sL    ro mA    N- CA      0CA     Go   Do  N1                           44         4D    4r      44L              ,z       z     4t                     4u       4
              0 r_              1-o
                                 Lr.                                                                  )<-                <cz   =Ix
                                                                                                                                                         n m1 r
                                                                                   0s"
                      LPs     oo                                   N                                                        Zi v                   =i   >            Z
            )             Nq    N-      NN                -N        N-N            N     N,     NIN-               N-    N      NNN
                                UnUU        U          UU    U U        U          UUUUUUUU                                                      U U    U     QU JU
         0) C -- 1 N      -4 NL N --t          mi  Ll   co     VAL Co        00I mA N- 00- CA                Co -1        a.' N          Co  mA-      I                     m A CA C
         t.0C Co
                nv LA
                      2- It 4
                           LA-L
                                    CIO 0 0
                                       xLAULA in
                                                   CoZ Nl      l
                                                             't 4 t
                                                                     l,   'i
                                                                             ,0- 4
                                                                                     N     LA CALF) ' Nl
                                                                                           41 0t
                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                       mA ci m A m.m m
                                                                                                                           N-- :T        N   Co
                                                                                                                                        mfc(NNi
                                                                                                                                                                       Hq-t     - LA
                    LA
                                 ajH
                                          U~~~
                                            a=UL -LJ    U
                                                                               ZL                    to   "~             z       : CL        L      LL        0
    (2     WU4
                                                                    <                                           14L              0
                                         [ N
                                                                               IL
                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                  -- 4NH ---- ----------- ---
                                                                                                                                                                          ------
                                                                                  66

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
         :6        L     v)     n     n,        n            n   tLn     un,                  &-  iiu-     s n   in   un zi-                       ) L  L     n L   n  Ln"   m cn n in
 0     b      0       0        n     0       n0           0!     0    n      0  0    0        0o 0     0     0      0   0      CI0         0   0     01
                   th        A tl -             ~n     Ul )    ) zLn Ln ) n V          n in i            o  n       V n Ln     vi      (A Vn in In            S.
   WW      t~                                                                             ri.     L.0    I""f-I' in     ri l;    0 f    l -:0  l r    n  00 '     m'   N N '
   Q            in          ) in                                                                                                                          1-0'0 ni    i N Nr
                  S       ri' ri                                                                                                                          co
                                                 r-       1                                                              P                                rnzt
                               0
                                                                    L                             zI
                                                                                                                                                          _
                                     -j a.1                   b               E(                                                             -       (
                     Oit     ~A      LI.........'.......t
                     a aa                     a a                a                                aa           ~Z aa
                                                                                                              uC?                      aa      a          a
   r0
                                                                                L,-  in                 in-                        'in          rI         ri in
                                                      ----        N- N---
                                                                -----                            .....                                          N---     --' -- --- --
                                               r-0       en  WI      zp                                                                                        [NHMMA
    OPUI NI)*                                                                     H
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                          LL                            I         '~H
                    N HI       LL'    N
       o                     1     I                                             LL           U-                             1              T
                                                                               .... ---- ---- ---- ---
   in0           4 r; N NtN
          - . .....
                                                          4 Nif        (       {        'ir       r,4 N        Ni Ni     ,N'4lNl(
                         c67

        WO 2013/116144                                                                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
               u              uL          uu          u,    u            W               Li-     u      W                      -  Lu
                                                                                                                                   L             LL      i
                                                                               0o                                     [(N    N    N
                                          I2                                                                                                             2 2 I          I2
           0QI                                                                                                                           coc
                                                                                                                  -                       <
               (1                               ro                                               N                        OCD
                                                                                                                                         44
                       rN
               d                                                                                  :7 u zt
                                  w wmLL(~                                             V)    Z          LV
              CA    ( rq        (jC
                                N9       U Y)(    Mi  '4'                'r                             -'
                    -     4                                    -             -  -      -               - -      -           --                                 -
                          I                                                                                                                N
                                        -       -           1-----------
                                                                                                        IFI
                                                                                             '
                                                                                     ~LO                   rq
                                                  roo                                                          u
            0                        f- z                     0
                                                              oZ          uL   M   U                                          u     N       '        )    u     z
                    L                      Q                                                        -I
                                     ~ 1
                                           ON c~      - tn       t        N     N   40            N                      CA:f-4     N.T      Co     rN     -  Ni      'N
                                               C,                                                                        rl~ zj 0     '.  0      zO, Z- f       U        iQL
9Ci                         I,)                                                                                                    u       s)                   (C
      ND                                       N           N N N , -4                          Ni V)                      NLN
    x        D                   uutuuU                                u        <      tD    u      I         ID                            1 L)             I
                                                                                                                    --                                        - - ------ ---
         IAI             Uj                :1                              U    Co
                                                         U           0          LN      <C           Z         C4
                                                                                                                Ni>68
                                                                                                                                                                    N
       :ccCL     0  .-                                    ON       CLrL                      a       w   0                                  0o-i~I         < zo    Uz)~
        Uo         U>            U t~            W      a-                                                                                           w-L n -               c L 0 ZU
            - ----- --------- --- - -----                                                                                         ------ ( L       1   ~ ~~ E
                   C:'.                                                                                                   ..... ... ... .
                                                                                       68

     WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                               -C- ----     ----
       ii       2c     "M 2c        2'   cri mc            wc    mt r"        no m w ccl                  n cc cc             L-- cc        m ccn 1 cc       m           m cc cc
     qu       UC
              CsW   i L 3Ct  U   L      k ". it-
                                               Q LCJ
                                                   :C      LL4  C
                                                                s..   CL C (r L LtC'Q   L L    -    .       w' LL J L&.'Z   'C Ll l(     LiL LL. U - l      !- U   LL    $
                                                                                                                                                                       C'c
                                               NN QI     a ClO   m    N i      D        0     0n                     V,       0 LU       iN
              00    t                   N                  Nc     N    N i DoSN N N,                                                      1    N
                                   M.In               - N             rH~ Nr  H
     'A
        u
                         .a     sc.~
                                 C      ~     fi      t 'uuc           tNC.                                        i
                                                                                                                 ccC             t
              Lt     i  Cs            Cs               t              el                wl
                                                                                         N                            Lt
                                                                                                                                                  -j
            U(nin       <4         ct                                   Un
                                                                       vN         6A         Ln                                              n     ,L            :         onu
                                             o~---                                                                                                        e                   ...
                                        S2 oN                    21                   ZI
      K                               t u      V)                                 Li    u..          N---                        N   tc~ -------
                                                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                                            u         ------         ....
                  'V                                                                                                                                   in inin
    ND
      xs    o         o        LU2
                                               C
                                               L U     U    e-4   LU     rol                               LU         a- LU LU                    ID 000              oo
                      N NN         (N (N        N     N     N           N      (N N      (N   N      N     (N    N      N      N       N     N    N    N            N      N   N
 rT                                                                       .       C              .C                ~  C
                                                tt                      SN t                   N                  N  N     -4      NC q       Nt   -tN    N     N: Nc          CrN4 0
aL                        WN                                        N        N L
                                                                               eN  LU
                                                                                   OG    w   w w w w w
                                                                                             N       0        1c  I LU L L' U
                                                                                                                       'Ac             LLU    wU    w
9,                <            01          Hkno       n C." H            o.i U      <'C       0       E    >u                 ~             0.-          in 0        C3 000 0 Cb
     .. .....
                                                            t0.Uj
                                                                ....----
                                                                        mI"
                                                                                      -
                                                                                   0 zL
                                                                                              -
                                                                                               n
                                                                                                    --------
                                                                                                     0      l    11      ,     f        o         -            '            -  C
                                       CsN                                                                                                                 1
                                                                 m                    0 m     r       t          - N           o   tt'       l         -             O0          o
              c"I               ........
                                                                                        69
                                                                                        69
                                                                                                 0      J     mo     en          '0
                                                                                                                                  ------
                                                                                                                                                                inj 1tj Ln

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                      PCT/US2013/023409
                                                        ~               iJ                                  i
                                ~~~~~cLt" enE               rn n n e        O C  n fCO zn 00 en to en en                                                       Voen e n e et n en e n
          00      co        00 CON        N,     tnt            to    t   to      An                    m4     o      m    CNN      4             I-'
                        Uit
                                                               OJNN                                        'enLJ
                                                                          IN      N                 <                                          :
                                                            -4       ----
                                                                                     ----...
  ;Ai0r         UiL           -   enieniL                 a.- 1   u-n    en: en   L  en  Lo   Ln    t:   v.-     Ln   nIt'             n   L          n   6n   Lu
             100-------- -------- --         ....---------                                                                                        ---------------------   ------ w 1 a c ~ a
                                                                                        me                                                                01N                   N
                03<~ --                                                         -x                                        -a         en~              0
         CArqN        r41174N         1  N' 4       N       N    t       N           N        N        ?N     qNI   r\NI              N             C     N      lN
   w                     Ii       wn    uj                                                       InwWL         j  LU w w w w w L      LU n'w LU w wi          ww
            m                             m           Co -Coi_0 o       C N .o       w1                          to  04          n              4
                                                r, 1rNO CC roa          cc Nr N'D
                                                                                C) N-CCN    A' z'0-    0a N NP. NN a:      IN NCD:N          to0          to:- 0 "
                                                                                            L"1                                    to '0--.
           M    o     Mf    U        4         COO                               N. LI,      M' 11,     to zO                 MC         Nn " k         )    D t , m-   ,
                                                                             0     .
                   z.                    1 0            1                 (N                      n          0    N   N1       Z           N          0 CZ
         0~                                                                            >-           j~n U      Lj             ~u           z       ~           z    1
        j l                                                                                                            '0.       '
                A:    AL     Au   L2    to      A       A-                                :                                                                    CL     t
                                                                               70

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                          PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                                               -- --    ------------- -- - - . . .    .. .
                S mz    n
                        w   wtL1      mn w                m         ccl
                                                                     mn           noN                                                             N    N    N    N
             U-   LL    U   LL    L.    Z   U LL         UL&,     L        L        ZLL     W'U.            LL: Ui            L   - LL  ~
                                                                                             a. e.1 n t                                    CL              CL
                            LN                                                                                                                              N
                                       en      0                                                                                            _j
                     n-CDx                                           u-                                                    u
o          a                      u         O                              -   *lii                                            U<           2
                        VIf Z          z:   L-                   rwL
 C)                               aa                                                                  a                                     u~
          iV  -J         N. NL                    LL            L N LLC        P          UL LL     tL         U-   fL       JL     2    - L             U' Z    NL L
                                            .n        -n                                                                 VC           N
    in
         CCM  0   Liii
                    NA
                                        N
                                        rrm
                                             _Z
                                         0 00t
                                                   tfl'oo(NJ         unCN
                                                                                    N
                                                                                    00
                                                                                    00
                                                                                        tt
                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                4 L:Ad
                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                   14
                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                        ~-   r               x
                                                                                                                                                                  N
         u                                   N     h<,l            m    'O                         t4                  t~r                   r         OCf
         N     Ny  Nr    Nr N 4fN       N    N      N                        NN          N'  N4    N~ N            N            N                        NNN
         o      o                                                            u          co                          u                         2
                                                    V        )l                                    Lin                          V )     -j    z 9   -jz 1
                                             " z-                                                    Z<O-I                                                     c
    4P   L_ _                           Hj     W       L fl  Z    f          wl                                       Lwf          w    wj      t j
                                  xLxdx                                                                             u        0    z
                                                                                                                                  0                          u >
       U                 m ,      n.0 1.I  IM      LID N              IT            rI   u         r               0        0t71
                     fzr      o                                              t       n w

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
                                              T-- -- - - ----- --------- ------ ~ ...... ....                                                                          ------
            *6                                                                                    N N N'         N N              C'    N N N'           N    '   N     N      'N
                p,   Q            C.   CL 0-     0.a'  . a.     a. Z . ga . a- .             a..     a a.     p-     0" a.     a.     a. a .% a. a.          a.    D.   a.    a
                K-
                   x
                     ,
                           00i
                                0        rm
                                            N110
                                                 G0000
                                                  n al t.?     1)D
                                                               , Vn
                                                                                00000
                                                                                     f*- N'n
                                                                                       0     0
                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                    it' N      A    -q
                                                                                                                  'o00
                                                                                                                      - 00 040
                                                                                                                         t          Vl 0l
                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               Dotr
                                                                                                                                                   I't
                                                                                                                                                        M4 mo M0
                                                                                                                                                          0040Q0 In'M
                                                                                                                                                         Kto w' )
                                                                                                                                                                        00 in
                                                                                                                                                                             r
                               H'
                                  f5s
                                         2       L
                                                  0 CC
                                            w' M (f
                                                                 t LU
                                                                    .- 00
                                                                                      In)
                                                                                       nt*4       LUC
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                           M   (N
                                                                                                                    L1
                                                                                                                         (2n
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        00F
                                                                                                                                                                    L
               n         u           n--                                                                                                           ---
                    --                 .-..            --                   -              ------ --         .--
        30'
                                                        t                       Lt
                 '
                'N                               (                                                                           '               '
                                                           to                                                             'n             N                 C)
        w       <                  L                                                                                              X z                                           X,
      o                                                                                      uj M- L         m                                  CL              z     r      u
                 N        N            CN                                             NN 0 IN N N .4N Nr', 4N                  N 00 N            N     N   N         N N      N
                   F'I
                     In F-
                      wN
                                        --I          z
                                                  1,, 0
                                                         ,        ,
                                                                        444o
                                                                          N
                                                                            Nf         wE~.
                                                                                                                         ND N
                                                                                                                                     1a,        mn ti fl,    a.L 0 0  1~C   ~   '-14     0- e, *m
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ccct w4
                                                                                                                                                                                            u a.' c
                                                                                                                                                                                         N i : i 4 k
                                                                                                                                                                                                      t0 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                    00c
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1, 
    nA    D 0u             0,          n    0                                                        0                                                                z
N   'tO                    ko In            41t 1     n041       I " n     00     't      "0         0        cc In ,    rLA      41 10                               00     InI     U n
                                                                                       2          1                             1
 CO
                     4
                                       Nn                  I        vIV0                                                     tN                                          r 4
     '0   Cs.I                                             U                                                                                             l u      <     L
                           In'         LA                    n    n   ~~_
                                                                        n     n         n      4    .0               <.1           f     Znn           OZA
                                                 C~l                                                                                                              772

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                       PCT/US2013/023409
   w5 WNl                                                  N NN                 l    N    N      N                          N      N  N     4j    NN
                           Ln       C71           ;D' Do                 t     *     L0          c,                            o   C    n                rom
                    r4!             4.            00l              W                      00          COW                    r" f, LD/o4 q    " m      .
                                                                                                 LL Z        ' Li0
            o                       N       N       N   N-j'~'
     Z                                            a z0..
                    .2                            L
                                                             N~1
                                                              "    2                  i     A                     -- ...... .r~
                           U4N UL
                        zi 2,2
                            -D
                                    > LL Z U 4 Pit
                                           2i S
                                                       U4Z1L
                                                        2                                                          2.
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                               1D  2 p
                                                                                                                      '---                                 -------
                                                                                                                                                     ~------
     z                         z                                                      Nj                   N4   N4i N N N             C   N N0        Nl      N I in
   -------
      ----------  ------.------
                              4
                                 ---
                                .4.          .i......                             4                   (                                  iwl             c
-A
Q4
        LL    09'                  1< .    -        m   Z'                                                   41U
                                                                                                              4
           n    f       NC'          N' N          N4   Nq     Nt        A      r'4                 N         N   N     N                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                  oz 0
     "'liN           re0 w0 f,' to0                               r'r-        N -I't       't    '41       m0         Z w b r-o      0 C", N" 4X4N 4.0 a)
        m0)       Li '4       40 ) fn 00               tzr 4' f   Do 00'.      N. 0        o     N,     44 co      t4 U,      Li "n) 4l     L'(0         0    L
     04 t 4        N         Li I          N       -iO         0    o 00 w     Il N      r 4 It 0 N z)             C     i    0   0    00 F'        4(         Li V )V
                       '00l                                                   m-     ND                                 MLi'L
                                      CL                       D
     0.xN                                     44/            0-   Q     2:0..       0U   T-'    00C WN U                     N    <-   :   a
                          Li L         Li'      Qil 1.     L ) Li       L-,   L     Li' Li    )         Li   Li      L     L       n  U Li'      ti LV'      a-i
                                                                                   73

      WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                           PCT/US2013/023409
             ci                                                               :F       2           .2:                :                               2           222
            o~     Ea,  a      p.     C.    a.     0-      a.   a.   a.    a.   a. .   a          a    a.           .   a.:  L.     a.,    a.-   a.    a.     a.   a.-  a.   a.
                       4)&           N    Nl       00'M        IN    iLn C)    kF      m Y -,      001 rtn              N,   Ln F-        m           4      00 0V00    N    C)
                          NC)                    ca00                                 oC    1CJ 1-.          it) m        n nT1 N 4c,                     r-b4 N       N     00
                       N      l C)                o      a,   .) C)   ,n r " 0N ) a) Nl NW              z     0440               "m        N     N     i    n zt )     m     w0
                                                                    m C) , C ) C) C ) C ) 00 0m 00 00 w0 0 00 Nr C "o                                    00 o ' *-I I LO        z 4
       I    ---- ----- ---- ---                   N---                               I...
                            N6                   N        N,    N.                                               Nt     N:JN     <'.    -            N        'n
      00
        ----- ------
                  - ----
                            z                     Lu-0
                                                                        4                                               4---
                                                                                                                    --4-- - --- .....
                                                                                                                                             15                            ...
                      J9H
           ....... N---N------                                0                         '     0   N)N             )'w
         -v
            q))u
                                                                           -)  -   -          -:
            x      oCn                        "I         "r      N                                      'N
                                    M':               :,n)Z(                                        Z IiLj
                      Ci    r     -4   C -4         tN          N-   N,    N   N   N   N      N       N         -4N     F-{ N      N       NZ N]     N IA         N     N   N1
                                                                                             L
                                                                            N ~ I~           ~            ~               ~-N-N------ t -~ --        -t'flC 0
                            a0              NC)          00   a 0    00 o00        00             m       I)    ttC          4     4      04   a n00                   n
    CDU
               tt
                            -             -
                                                          4n
                                                           )
                                                              C
                                                              00
                                                                         l      00 < Cc
                                                                               <c
                                                                                          W]I    00  l nL LI'
                                                                                                  w H ~               i
                                                                                                                         i  ~t-t
                                                                                                                              '.          N
                                                                                                                                                 a.
                                                                                                                                               i)a'n               ~ ~
                                                                                                                                                                       Nt1
                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                            yf
Q)U    ~.t0~                                              .<.~o~.'k~2~~                                                                       bkH
                                         ----     ----0                                    -----                                              0
                                                                         LO           74

 WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                        PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                                            75
                                    ....          ...------                                                                                  I---
                                                               I                          t
                                                                                                                                        ------                       ......
            N   N        N     N:   N      Nt N             N    N         N     N-      N N     N          N   N      N     N      N    Ni      N       N       N   N      N   N    N
           CL'                 CL0   i   -     0         C                C' 0' N                                                   CL- 0      S) 0      0    n 0    0    i
                                                   -V--- --------
                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                    N        fl
                                                                  -       -  ------                       0
                         ><            u        C                                                        N    nC       4                    -              'o    0     .        N
                               N                                 4,            u       CaX00                                              x          'UC
         U'     <cL.                                       -<0   <~u                ------                                   <t  ----<                  <3      <  J
                                                                                                                                                                                       -... L
            A                                                                                                                                       {t
                               N-   N-     N-                   N--N-N            -   N-               ----       -- ----- --       --     -- ----
               ----- IN H       H,                              4 H H HI H Ht                  Hm         .OO 00         loW                            t-0000
                                            -4.o,0     ~ ~~0    (     ~C        n   ~C       ~4         'rvI~          ~N--- ~              ~           -- -----
                             S             -
                                           v-I       -      -                          z v&N
                                               It C,
                                                                         2            0
    w                                                 o
f~~~~t(                                                            N
                                                                      0
                                                                        -      9u4           Nn  00Q                  in'    V) L0t0     ) V t           <v- ( I ;n ' )           L.- WL:U t
                N       NN     N    CN     N        rN      N   N              N       N      NNN                                        N       N      N      N      N      ;N
          t 00           >-0               0       0            U                                                          0           ot oz                       N
                 U(D0          U-          U                                            04      r-I-.
                                                                                                kn                            m-    N>        t-c0)    0-.     oo
                                             --                                     1                       q   1--
    0
                  --     Ju2                                         ZU                                   zs            < IU
    4<x
    ----        N-----N                                                        N      -----   . - ---- v---             ---- --                                           .....
      3
                                                           x                                                                                           0                 0-0
                0        -j
    a
 (3                  -'  0        :
                                    C     -----
                                          =1
                                                 x
                                                    ~4in
                                                    --N.i         NNI--N'i - ~t
                                                               ~,oI~o                                    *'
                                                                                                                                OItcn0r<ia0
           00 0                              U
                                            nI       ZU                                      Cu     --          0     5            O      <nuc

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                            -1-I                             - -     --- ---------- --                                             ------
                    N5                                                  N                                     f-N Nq N.N ct CN Nr                N    N            t
                                          n    CL a.     -   C. K i-      -     e-  K -    L CL -      CL CL         _ap-    p a . C- a             -     0.  M_
                         co     r-Q      L      F)L          N    0'                                   Z04)                r N    o     5    600     Ln Nt 4 OF      N0
                 m 0     00 0000 00' C-- "-0                   IS)     .n Ln                           rnrnt             mn M. fCeo m -       N     N     N
                                  I                     N                                                         Nn<
                                                    N)               Ct               00            z                            <"0.4 Ll        'N "1~
                 G'     c-'  0        Cc      in           at6~            w                u>OFitci                                 00c       t
       u       u   QIQ                                     l.LI       Lzru"                                                                         n
                                                   NN      NN  NN     &4tN.              tO            N      N   (V   t-
         FbO                    mI F ci w                                 'D             'D r  N               N'Na    t    N    N       )  NI    I        N0  t     N
                                              ND                                                      m           c~             r-.   d                  4<N,
                                                                                                                       a)- HH      400                CIO       'I    n   t   SnI
                                                Ln   i r-I1                                                qt   M    <         N     _j f -L
                                                                     LL.                              N6                     0   0     H     0      CC0
                             x.4                                                                                  mr                                      4 4       N C4'   z4"
          15  n                                                                      <          (N       '   0q
    U.-    U )LL                                   0zC                                                                 U) -      LL
                     n 'vi    i      wl    i  Le   n 4q L1      i    V       )         ,
                                             r-4                               L      m-    M.          ~'              N                           CV) "n    N
                          N)        Nt   N                                                                    N    NrN      N                       N     N   N
ULL  -                                                                                                                                  -'    N'N4
              ClC
               000                                                                   F-         TH2                                    1--
                 ut,        CC         00L00                            O             en           n    o                                ici                            a-c
                                              N'   N       N                         enr                  n
                                                                           k5 L-(                           - u
         a-    0000'     pL,         at
                                             i-    Lf) ') V)                                                       0   S                n                         z
                                                                                     Ln         L'    L     V                                          '      N
                                                                                  76

       WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                              - ----.---.--------                               ..     .",
                   NN         N                                                     N 'NN                                                                  eN      NN Nt N              N     NN N NN
            G     ) - tL 0.         CL,     oz    o-     - C    L  a.        CL        CL .       -    ' 0- .     cs.  c.t   aL     i.      C L C'c'.       a.     OLci.   C4-      CL   --     a  e- C L. r
              t0 Z             W         C       'U          t        .           ,       mi                   <C6      L   w Lw4(tt N t0CL 0                       LI     6-)4           m440
                                          ~                                                N--                                 - C-            4 -          N
                 ---'-s      ----i--------            LI4 <                 :~:u            '  u                                   x
                                                                                                                                                          f u          N
                                                                                                                                                                                    1
         0)
                      =  0    W'LI~~
                                              en                         Z          0IL       0I <I ILnI
                                                                                                          z z'c 8 LLo on                 L
                                                                                                                                                cc
                                                                                                                                                         L I'?
                                                                                                                                                            0  ~o I 0          t s~
                                                                                                                                                                                           IU
                                                                                                                                                                                              ea
                                                                                                                                                     a.           <L                     <L L C L C L CIC    C C CC L C
          '~        N
                     tn-
                              NNNN
                                       fN
                                                                     N
                                                                             N
                                                                                  N                        NN N                       N NN         NN               I  Nj N'N            NN
                                                                                                                                                                       rA                 w
                                                            <                                             u                                      N
                  urC        LI                      4n        s4.w      e     Ln    l  Ln v)              .     CC)       Ln LI u        Cs n L      ,          LI'V LL              I         LI l
                   N      N4
                         t2                 4 Cs            (4       cS      N t        N~        N 4        N      N       NN         f
                                                                                                                                       N              N4         N     N          N      N    N
                             00    ~                 0I
                                                       '    N
                                                             Ni)
                                                                         S C s -it-
                                                                       N'L N-              '4
                                                                                                   N~ c'Z~ o
                                                                                                    on 4     N    0         mI
                                                                                                                                  ()-I
                                                                                                                                     ulCO,
                                                                                                                                          I    d Q0
                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                            InLU LrI
                                                                                                                                                             o '
                                                                                                                                                                        w(   ""'   N
                                                                                                                                                                                  m'
                                                                                                                                                                                          m'
                                                                                                                                                                                          -I
                                     t
                                    tS                                   z)
                                                                                           I
                                                                                           zr       :tz4F
                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                            71             n    r)   r
                                                                                                                                                                       10VrM.
                                                                                                                                                                                  -I
                                                                                                                                                                                      M   I[
                                                                                                                                                                                          m    F
                                                              CCt '0N                     4    <S
                                  zzr- LnU                                  z             z             '      C       ZI       '         CL                      LL
                                                    oN                                                                                                                     N
    4)                                               -t.    ,".       s'F            "    N            N     N N       N     C1 N                    I N Ni4         Nq
                                                                                '                                                                                                f,
                 vif       '     L I      u    L3       n                           LI         LI     LI  nou    o          V     L;      Lt       t 1l           V    a
       o                                zi   u              (DO       u                   en          m      u
   '0                          'ZN       IN     N     '        s'c          s'                               c    o L IDL N               C             0 zs I' ,    U) LF II   s-l     C'      C'
                                                                                                          (1        11       I      M I' LI m f'        4         m                     N fm r
Nl                                                                                      t
           3
                                                                            Q7
                                                                                          (N't                             NL
               00      L'.                            4jL             '.                 W          LI -j                                                                        CL U> Cs-         I  V)w L
                                                                                                        77

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                PCT/US2013/023409
                  ....      ---       --- ---       K
                                                 ----
        IN  ~ ~      ~       ~         0     04:     a-ta   - a   - C   .    0-  C. a.  a    -   -   Q
                                                                                                                -t  - --  -
   I                                                                   I
K0     a.  3D  0co     0    w                           z3n   CL    <   3.i         3      0                         0      0   00
      CN       Nhr1401     N     C1N       (N CNtt                       O f N N t N WN N          N                 N     r 0)04>~iN
      N     St           I  NIN              NW      0  zaen    0    oI         0   N      0    N      cn   a    0>00)           0 00     a
     00>00     M00   Le           -100 (OF  00000 0  P,    N'  mN                    NFN        c-FV)k     0 4"      0       00>0 a
                           N                   - N NNr.   NjN                   NN NN     N                                     N     N
                      ---   --       ---  --     -----    ---         4 -                           -----          ----
                O                                                      ~N0>
                            0                                                          11
      0    y                                         0 x u CCZa                                                                           U
      N010N0
               toLu
                   N
                    I'I
                            Nir        N    N   'N        N Nf              N N N'             N
                                                                                               0D(
                                                                                                           NN
                                                                                                          1l( 0
                                                                                                                        N     N
                                                                                                                                   1D0  N
                                                                                                                                        D(
     jn    "Y NA                ,    NJ N          Njr     -              '   N  NIiJ                           N N
                                            ----- ----         8                                                                --------

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
                                             4.~N .       ID Q          0 :          ON      N     W0     -,    L   NZ t-1      M~    rq     M r00,
                                                                .....                     N....
                                                        C    in          ot.             Ucq
                                                         uc
                                        ......     .....    .......   U.                                           ... H...        .... U    j H,       i
                                      .. ....        .. . .. .. O - I        -O -          O   ~     - -                              I ------        .. .
      a    l                           UCt4          I-UNU                                C.                       en    0.            5A         r
        o       M
                        ft                                  0000~0000                                             00                   00
                                                     N    N      NN           NA N 1 L          N    N               N     LN    NN
                              LU      x                                                   Ln                                     U. U'              U
           NL   NI   NI               w    )       U        U         U                     0,0                             0     0   0    0     0
               C_.                    o          0    0         0         0        0.Q               uC                  ;'cD 0      U
                                                            S     H H        H       H     H          H       Hf   H-                       -4    -1
                    oD         0Do-                                                   )0        o                      t
                                    -      p   CN         N             NtN H"        Hf                     N      N       4rN            '
                                      iv       0                 CC    N
                                                                 Ot0000Ma0
                           Nn
                                               "o
                                               v)..
                                                              c:0
                                                                 &n
                                                                 r         A        c
                                                                                    N~ --
                                                                                           D    0 t f
                                                                                                Z,           F      ,,zL1
                                                                                                                                Ln L
                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                         N     00S
 IT:
                                               UI     00         0     0        f~f       0           0      00                             0D
C-                                        O    N                               '                       N            N
                                                                                                                    eN       'N        N
             N      ~
                 CDtfU              .00              i00
                                                         UU
                                                                C
                                                                      U
                                                                       UU0000U      U
                                                                                      UU
                                                                                                U 0~o0
                                                                                                  .fU
                                                                                                     UU            UU
                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                U
                                                                                                                               UU
                                                                                                                                 00m       U
                u00                                         00         H           00            0Lf                  0L4             N     00
     --------
         -----------                                                             'N        H         00      Nz.L' 'A            c   N      0
                                          ki z.      N.    N      COW                              .    N     0      00         LL     o    H      0
                                                   ~
                                        --------- ---- -O O-          O               l   O        N  ~   0            0 0         0   0    0      N
  2  a             zNH                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                C           O                             Hc0
                                                          79O.~4

       WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                                                                                                                            ..              . . -- - -- -           -   . .. . .
                                                N                                          n4cfl N (        N           N-   4   N                N                        C1
                                            co                       r'       0Mt             SO SO-N wI           Nr ca       m                 S      00                      n    n   o m -n f
            Q0 O flzr                 et JS       A lkD       00     N NZ wc C)                 N       m- 0       N     m   cn 0i Oj't            N      SO               m0 cc    c n
                       r--'j                                  . 0. 0 c 0 3 c N                  q NN        ' N         N    C14, NO ' Nc          '4      i   N4    r O
            S C'.c        m      N CN4             N1   N      N rq                         N          N    N                         5N          NN                                   N
                        vi LL
                                                                                               Vz14         'I:i
                                                                                                                       ~(NCD
                                                                                                                           t 1 uP?)
                                                                                                                     1
             x      w                Ln                                                  -Lis         -t    C                         s        a-        a      -W
                                       0
                                                               0
        ;a
        0
            0) r'i
                   U
                           0.0000000100000
                       f~~~~~~~~N
                         U U
                                  C4 N r4 (4
                                         U Ui U       U
                                                         N     N
                                                               U
                                                                      r; 5 I
                                                                      u       u
                                                                                   0-0
                                                                                      Z(
                                                                                   Uz U        u
                                                                                                   :r
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                         N N N N N
                                                                                                       U u        U u
                                                                                                                          00000
                                                                                                                             u     u U U
                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                          CN- N-1 ( N Nf4
                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                               o           aoz  U) U,
            Su           UUU-              U'u      Uz       U:         U    UUU                                        uuu     uuu UsU U-u                  U      u u
           ,NT       N    SO    (N     0    CflLf      r,       cqc            N    C     A 00 SO                  r cc is'        m~c      r,    10     Ln        z -,01,
            F,  c N       0D On m           m              00           .) N             co S.O SOl         co ti    LA       w '4  N                           -1 N'            wA
                                   --  --.  ------                                                                                                                    .. ..
                  tH           V'0U                                                 0<               U
           UW4;
             z             H      ltu                          Ln
                                                                      0
                                                                              o    <i                       -           x-    0t                          or
                                 -~-iwr
                                                                                              ------------
C Ojol                       0              0                    o         0      0c       c       0000                    0             00                  eeoCD             0 0
         4)tI N          'N N     N      N              tCNNN           N fN N            N     N             l N N      N         r4 (N              N       -N5qN          N     IN:
  o          U1 -                           U     UUUQ                 U      UU-      C     U      , U      U      UU         U          U         U     (iuu u 4Uu          uQ
                z'                        0-cac- SO       LA     'i          oI                        C              I             0             65
                                  NIY          N L5      LA'4       N     . I S     Yl 0'0) '        0    c    o     N        a     0 s 0)           N-      00 N      -    ID N cc
                          N? is'      LA   cc N~                               0    wc    Ins cc     ccj    co    Ln IM 4                                 N      N      N'  N     mNor: n 0
                                                                                             1-- -     -- - - - - -        - - --                          -     -  ---
                                                                                                                                       '              I          q
               R-
            08

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                      PCT/US2013/023409
              -     ~~Lii  uui__A                          j        -j:L        Ji --jJ                                                 Li        iL           L       ~ i
                                           N-NNNNNN
      4 it   N 00 N' N 1 00 t LD 1.10 Hi--o It  CD0     i to0 1) 6 ID toID' tom" toto o to             N N 'r No0 mc     l*      Ul
                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                          l                            N N, w         -1
                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                                                                             9)
                                H: H-            CD: o W0 00                                                                                     Ni
     CL
                                     CLC
                          o          N         C)            CL    0                   C                     N            *      N               N     ul                           z        J
                                                  3                                    cuot.                                        1 JfU
                              b.CC
      f u
            IN     NN          N     N    N          -           NJ        N0   NO                     CN                        0
                                                                                                                         ---                              ----     --- I--- ---            - -.i
                                                     oa        o                  N            P, Cr         VCX to N            71 C)       t 0    00    C      . ti   I-    tOrn:           C)
                           N:- 4 )    to
                                   "cr,   ~
                                          N,   0l
                                                  ~          e
                                                                     mC)
                                                                                CZ N
                                                                                        --'
                                                                                            H       0"     C)'. :) O0 00 H o t                       N                Nci      vc:Q
                                            I  N       N      zN     N      N,   N     H        H       H-     H'in               C)C            C      )       000f
                wC0            UU00o                                              'LZi                           ELiN'                                         x                i~~
                                                               --                      u                                                                                            1-
                                                        K                              0t                                                         <    oN             Li
                   ID      Uw        in                                                                                          z        w                                                 a
                                                                  ---                          u             u                                                             ---- ---
                    Y                                                                                                            cfn
            C)                                             Z)       a)                        al C)       z)C    )  C'C:n      0    01 )         o o 0 C)C 0 C) C) C) C CD C)                           C
                       fN         CN N     -             N    N     N               z   NN      r:,     r                              'N        Nr4f      N N:rqN            rN      N       N
           oU      U      U    U     U    U    U     U        U: u         u    UZ u           uA U          U      N            U: U                  U       U'UUuU
N4                                                                                                                            z
                           N'  - )        "I   0 d ao l a-'         m~      m       ~            H:,    m      H)   H)      - '    00'    H      w r    N'    ;        r      to       ci' i NiL
            QQ  to        to o    Q0 to     to  to0     tot            Vo:                     Li      Lm:    to    V) U A s l          i      n i n'     to     US, to      t'     LnZ Li
                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ..... . . . . . . . . . . .........------- ------ - ---                                                   ---      ---  -
    cic                                                -                                                                                                                                    0)
                   ID                                  N
       ,..   xo     t0                                 N O                                     U                            rCS                H                         0)                 fNcoz
       tv    u     ca- U z      z      u'                                       x   lb      U                              LL              '      O:              4       0
                 )        Uol U-1 to c-                              Z         <<
                                LU to ,   Q > Cs)  z S: U       a                               <      02
                                                                                                                                               zo 0~~   2o i
       ----                     H-------                                                                                                  H---            H '      H   -    --'-       -  ---    ---- H
                                                                                       81

 WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                          PCT/US2013/023409
-------------       -----         '--     ..........                                          -'-------F------                          ---
                                   MZMt MI n C                             Fn      O mc                     c                    mM                       n ma
          M.~ 4J1
                    (.0
                   w>fl
                             ~ rl ~ N              ~             >
                                                                 co N*
                                                                        >-v>Ln0 D NM
                                                                           N >0         -1
                                                                                            N
                                                                                            ":
                                                                                                  NI
                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                    I N
                                                                                                                       Mt
                                                                                                                                 t1>1
                                                                                                                                           -1
                                                                                                                                              't   >       <n0 0N Nj
                                                                                                                                                           -4 --      0 .     L
                                                            m
                        r-             t    t.0o'   l ZNLO-,v            O   W   N     00    Nt
                                                                                       m4M00N0"I                            Nz   Nt
                                                                                                  -I-'-         - -    w l n j --------                               ....
                    LZ t~                                                                         NIflN                                                 '
        z                                                                              0i                           L
   ---- * - - -t - - -        - -        .   . .      . . .-                  --                  -- --- --                 -          -----
      0)                 21    L-     N>-      Nj N          2i    "N    Nj   Nl                                            NI    Nj    Nj
                                     21             2~                  2z        2i                    2
                  z  n     0D r    N F'       r     k0'                  zN        N~ 0    my - -I       0   l         00                      4r    Lt1I ccv "Yv 0        vOW r
                  z        0m 000000co00F                    00, 00      00o co 00 v0             U1    F-           r      r      -:          r                 0    L
        x
                                 a ,t       ccc
                                                         -o  q                              -ctrZ
                                                                                                                        1        00                                   le
                                                                                                                                               -----------
                                                                                                                                                        +-
      0
                     r      N- rz(Nv       N- rN '           N      r N    N        N    N   N    t4      "   C4r4             N  '         tN        N    rAN         N
           0)     Ov                     ov00     z 0 6 0         0      0   0     0z 0n 0        0      0     0      0       0   0      0n 0        0o    0     0     0
                     UIUIUUU                                                       uW                                                    uuu
                                 y1t                                                                                                                               tn   I' 4D ln 00 031 F01N 0014 0 0
                                                0      0    0v0          0     0         rjA      s         -         0        0     0   4      fm r 4-    4D          4o D
                                                                                      v-[                   ----   -----
                    Q0N(
                                                     IT:  -,          t                  N                                N                          rV '        U     1
                                                                                      IU        t                         ve
                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                   <              ZeLy
                                                                                  82

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
                                                          N            r        N           "                 tN              r            N              N        Nt N           N N        N
                                  CL                       CL     a.    0-       0-   a      oa            a-       'o    a'      C    0       E       0a   aL     Ca   a a C
                                                     F-      -     -      -     -   -     -         -       -----------         -------------------------                    ----
          Ze~      C)N      -ri         0:N                                                                                             U-    r,        UC'     W'  f   * )       3 W W We~f
                                                                                                                                                                   Ln                   C
                                                  -l       r4Ur                             U         U    U,       c         aU,U               ':     f     U          U                   m
                                             N'             it           -- a--       Hl    zi             -10   z ,      t-1      -1  j    a-      ri    fN i     C  4N N         N      N    NC
                                                                                                             Nt                   ~
                                                                                               -       J                         c                       N'                          ~Z
                             N:
                                                                      0                                           t           a]                                                             :
       CL
               O, L        I      H    ma                                               o                         U      <              m           :4                                t
                                 o
                                                                 N-                                                      N                              N      N                        N
                                            0U                       w       m         U                                                                                     U-           <U U
                  o          m     N      '                             0           L        LU        0            U           <3     C                           03    -5
                  ~tt          AK '             '                         0         0       2                  zn                                            N                '
                             3                                                                                                             t3
                                                               z                                                        Ln                                                              C83
               LL   J,                                                  U                                         0L<0
     r_     u        a                               0  D0a iC             zC 0                       o 0      0         0:o         0     W    0             u      2   0      0     a       0cU
                                                   N                                  xl             0          o        Ul mfn0
        -n                           Z  N     "     N      NN                                                                NC-: N N'"                N N N                            N      N
                                              u    U'                   U       U:   U                UUUU                                     UQu                    u     U       U
           tJ~       C0           n    Ct0nn                       3                 n 00CC                       C      0    0i0              n        00a0000                              0
    Ln     iuU~                      U'U                               '      u                                           u      u       u       u       u tu u u u u u u u u u U u u Lu
                                                                                                      m      q L00                       m 03 ', ry,U V1 Lf     -i -Un I1 r 3'')        t
              i     VN
                      NV-ef  .q:r
                                   m'
                                       Cl ) )
                                       0
                                    l ct    N '
                                                      r N '
                                                  NV'lN N
                                                                 in
                                                                  r'i        ~m 0e    ")'
                                                                                            m
                                                                                             mt 1-         CO0U)
                                                                                                           Q          11Z4 wZC)f'
                                                                                                                  .0W:f             -z
                                                                                                                                    ) w ) n ln V n U                n
                                                                                                                                                            m m m m m1 o
                                                                                                                                                                           '3' m
                                                                                                                                                                                        NO',
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mt   mm) 't
                                                                                             y  '3'      mC~ M3' mt                   z mC m3 mC~
CD
  'C-)
               cc
                 -2
                      <a
                       0 .
                                t
                                                    CLC
                                                                                                                                 '                                     1
           k:                  O'H1/1ozii                                                                   'Lt-      o-        U          U            <a           Z -            4 Z
                                                                                            83

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                         PCT/US2013/023409
               twt
              N      N     N    N     N      N     N    N     N     N     N      N     N    N    N     N             N     N   N     N  N       N   N    N       N N
              x      x     x    x      x     x     x    x    x      x     x     x      x    x    x     x      x     x      ><x       x  x       x   x    x    x    x
    W-C
         i    a-     0. 0. C                   .i.                     CL CL
                                                                          CL C0 00.1
                                                                                  t    0.        CL    C0 10.   . a.       0.  0C 0                      0.        a.
                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                              N-
        M        -    0         1I
                                    L"                                                    U u   n 1<  U HzI
                                                                                                                                              '          <N
                                                                                                                                                                    I N 0.
         03    N-      COM               q     Zl0                   H    N      L      ,    0         NL                      m-I      1
                                                   zi   --      i   ED    Ce
                                                                          L"            No                    <                                                0
       o _    C)j          <-          M                                         CCC        CL
         u    ~            i     U     CO U             v4
                                                           4
                                                                    "I      u   nu3 D      m 0     m     n3          0.  C   0  Y-   L.  t  r
                                                                                                                                            xN
                                                                                                                                                 An   0. u       U
  I---------              ----~....                                                                                   .                         "--------  .....- --- ..
               e3
                                                                                     -                                                     H
                   I
     o                            0 4
                                  -- --     ~    o  en                H       C                 0
                                                                                                         01QwCIC
                                                                                                                w      m oc 0.
                                                                                                                     - --N N---
                                                                                                                                                     c    n  1
0    uru    = co
           of
                tD      N 00o00
                       N>  >
                             wl
                                  N
                                        e
                                               ,0
                                                 N N U
                                                        0
                                                         r0000000
                                           Ccl LLuuuuuuuU:u
                                                           N
                                                            0  i <3(
                                                                      UL
                                                                       0
                                                                      CO0ON
                                                                              UH    ~u
                                                                                        CO
                                                                                        84
                                                                                          N
                                                                                               N N N h N N N N N N 0N
                                                                                              Nn 0
                                                                                               N
                                                                                                Z
                                                                                                   adNN
                                                                                                        0. a
                                                                                                          f,(    ,   (
                                                                                                                       t    <
                                                                                                                                  Coi
                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                  ::L 3        I
           rU    <'U u uA~
     CDwo                         nz00                           )00000$
                                 u uu   ()          uu         U uu                      u        U U              :        U U            U84

   WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                    PCT/US2013/023409
                     in   Z            i n    inU    2        V *     .n   Lr       L n     u i   nz
                      d                             zr     tz
                                                            0
                                                                 t   C
                                                                        t    I
                                                                                  t'T
                                                                                    I      0k                              zz to' IO        D to- to t o t.o'D
                  S0'0                 I     0      C                                                         o O'                                                       to to
                                                                                                r.)-C I C C I CI 0 C a- CL a.- a. C. La. a. a.. a_ a.                                       I- a.
                                                                                                LZ41 <4                         LL                  U4      U- LLLL UL LL U- L "
                                                                                                                                    N      N N N N                  N       N      N
                                                                   n      Nrq N.                                                    CIo    al    0N                 cz- o          o
                                                                                                                                                     NNN                    N
                                                -c
          x
                     ko                   z                  N                                                                                                CD
                     r               01                                                                              Ij       i(             -
                C~        (                 tyi     mn       mA     m~f      I     rn            --i            fn                          m/    M.   mn     mn             mc cn
                                                   UN               -                       p      V  4NrN'       N    N'
                                     os             o o000            0 o000                         00              000              DC)0       0     0      0     010            0
                          -    -- ---.-   -       ------ ---- ----
                                             ------                        t
                                                                                                                                     to
              WCu          N          Z             c9o~              cmi                                            < 444              13i                      nP
                            qs                      2H                                          a.     It                              <
             1 0
                                                   ftII                            4-I~I                         '4           -~Ni                            N              IN    N     Nj
                  -------     -      --      -
           Do
          ii        v ."               a'a            .      a.       aa             .    a        .   a    a.     a.   a.     a.      a.    ca.    a.   a.     a.     a.      a.zc
                                        ~    Ct~'i~n              IA     in    ti      ci       I4LI)                             In      IA    L t1     I/f.   f     IA     L
                                                                                                                                                              ul    Ln       "       n
                      o     2                Z                                                                                                   i            0     o        o     0
              x        La                               CL                                                                                                     N    cl-C        0      a
'C           -- 0
                                      u      Z                                              5                            f            D           0     D1
                                             ZL         c)                           On                                                                cc                            t
                                             r-                                                                  V)viL               L                                       D1
                                                                                            85

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                  PCT/US2013/023409
                                           00                                      Io
    r-     C
          In w ly       L
                        ML     L
                                   CC' O
                                    an .   CL     '
                                                    D Oz
                                                        0.    LM. m
                                                                   D     10
                                                                               0.
                                                                                   W, u
                                                                                      M
                                                                                                 ~      ' rvo mrn
                                                                                                   a.CLMCL . z . M      n
                                                                                                                               (V)
                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                       k oO
                                                                                                                                       c-. CL         rn ;0 t0
                                                                                                                                               nCL M M-C   n CL
                                                                                                                                                                        F i . fl
                                                                                                                                                                       c-  CLCI
           LLLu         j L .-      L' tu-             u LI                   LL          L.                 LL U-   L                                          u      L-     L'L
           N      N          N NN                N     NNN
                        D  00 00     6.    0     a      00   000000               N*    -    r >F0U0          O  t 00           uI La r      t      I'll   mi     N     N       IN
        'A                                                                                   r
                     4n                                   1j 1              j                        ILi
                                                                                                       '.
                  CCO
                4tr            nID
                               U                             --         K-,e                        J             0i                       '        LL
                                                                                                                                                    NF                   0
       0     i'         V c    u-'Z                                 00F00.4.H20-IU0z00I                                                                                      I'     U'
 o e                                                ~                     C       Co  Co                                                                       .a       F
           U'           rm
                                                         -
                                                              m     m m o                              rM        m     m mz
                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                     m     ::   fn
                                                                                                                                                                          - ---
                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                LIt                               if)     La     La  V La, t   Ln
                                              uf                          ttuL                                                          LI
                     ot             000     i00          0   00    0          1    a  oi       Co        N0   N     N'rot                                  0o   0o     oo       Co0
                                                                       t4
                        z      N'0
                               O
                                        -.
                                        LL
                                                           , N0Mcc
                                                                                                        2                          P     wm     C
                                                                                                                                                           N z
                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                          N
            NANN            N       LL         N        NF Nw N            N       NINN                 N    N    N     N
                                                                                                                        -1F 1    1,- t.)     a.;    u i                    .
 it          000                   000                        Zt(
                                                              00    LJ.                       Li   00              w000                         n    Z"    L-,   (0
                                                                   S                                                                                     N  N     N
         :x             0,c      t 0,0     0         0          Uj                                 00't       w0          'iH wz                400         NA-   W0    m      W2utL   u L   u WL
                         un  r     'tzrj            -    -z                 z          --                                       z                                     -- n O e,           x
                   ccH '       c      2       cc         1     ~      0       0                               uL U      00'              a.l    20000vi           U'a
                                                                                      86                [                     z.
                            zz                                                     c: w :t,zu- w -                       wiW              ..          L w86Q

    WO 2013/116144                                                                                    PCT/US2013/023409
       W    N1
         u
                -o               CD   mU wD         c       c                       m    mtc
                  <                                                                             <
           CN                  'cf    r'     Cq 4 N 144          4   N4        '42z        44
                                                                                             :;
   zV  Cv000000                                                  0000000
                                -----    -------
                                     ------                                         C   -- ------
                        vi      L0L                                0 0              0   Vf          (
                                      N   rq    N ~    N              rtN      N      r4     N M
                   i w    r       w                  cy-      cc   Cx Ly W                 ,
      V)     W
               1M.q -1
               LU       wL~j       w
                                  m*'c
                                       wLw5     WLU      L        LU
                                                             P 'crr
                                                                       WU LU- LU-
                                                                                    Jr
                                                                                    LU    ui
                                                                                           No
                                                                                                 LU
                                                                                                 NI
rn
                     Lo     ;'o: LL                                   LLccc N         cc     O
         U6                                              LI)Cu< LnLZL
                ----z......0.C..-.
                                                                  87

 WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
                       Example 4: Prospective Validation Study of RS27
Study Design and Statistical Methods
[00175] The algorithm RS27 in Table 4 was tested in a prospective clinical validation study
that included 395 evaluable patients who had surgery for their prostate cancer between 1997
and 2010 at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). The patients had Low or
Intermediate risk (by CAPRA) for clinically localized prostate cancer who might have been
reasonable candidates for active surveillance but underwent RP at UCSF within 6 months of
the diagnosis of prostate cancer by biopsy. No randomization for patient selection was
performed. For each patient, prostate biopsy samples from one fixed, paraffin-embedded
tissue (FPET) block containing one or more tumor-containing needle cores was evaluated.
[001761 To investigate if there is a significant relationship between RS27 or any component
of RS27 and adverse pathology at RP, multivariable and univariable multinomial logistic
regression models were used and p-values from likelihood-ratio (LR) tests of the null
hypothesis that the odds ratio (OR) is one were reported, The multinomial logistic model was
also used to calculate estimates with 95% confidence intervals of the probability of high
grade or non-organ confined disease. To evaluate the relationship between RS27, baseline
covariates, and combinations of these factors with high grade or non-organ confined disease,
multivariable and univariable binary logistic regression models were used and p-values from
likelihood-ratio tests of the null hypothesis that the odds ratio (OR) is one were reported.
[00177] The primary endpoint was fornulated as follows:
                         Table 12: Clinical Endpoint - RP Grade and Stage
              RP Gleason Score       Pathologic T2 Stage    Pathologic T3 Stage
             <3+3                     12
              3+4                                           4
             Major pattern 4 or       5                     6
              minor pattern 5, or
              tertiary pattern 5
where Gleason Score <3+3 and pT2 (denoted "I") is the reference category and all other
categories (2-6) are compared to the reference category.
 [00178] Cell combinations of Table 12 evaluated in binary logistic regression models include
the following:
         Cells 2, 4, 6 vs. 1, 3, 5: Non-organ-confined disease
         Cells 5, 6 vs. 1, 2, 3, 4: High-grade disease
         Cells 2, 4, 5, 6 vs. I and 3: High-grade or non-organ-confined disease
                                                  88

 WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
RS27 Algorithm
[001791 RS27 on a scale from 0 to 100 was derived from reference-normalized gene
expression measurements as follows.
[00180] Unscaled RS27 (RS27u) was defined as in Table 4:
[001811 RS27u    = 0.735*ECM (Stromal Response) group -0.368*Migration (Cellular
Organization) group -0.352*PSA (Androgen) group +0.095*Proliferation (TPX2)
1001821 Where:
[00183] ECM (Stromal Response) group score = 0.527*BGN + 0.457*COLIAI +
0.156*SFRP4
1001841 Migration (Cellular Organization) group score = 0.163*FLNC + 0.504*GSN +
0.421*TPM2 + 0.394*GSTM2
[001.85] PSA (Androgen) group score       = 0.634*FAM13C + 1.079*KLK2  0.642*AZGPJ +
0.997*SRD5A2 Thresh
[00186] Proliferation (TPX2) score     =  TPX2 Thresh
[00187] where the thresholded gene scores for SRD5A2 and TPX2 are calculated as follows:
                                  5.5               if SRD5A2 < 5.5
[001881 SRD5A2 Thresh      =
                                  SRD5 A2            otherwise
                             r5.0               if TPX2 < 5.0
[00189] TPX2 Thresh     =                                     0
                           LTPX2               otherwise
[00190] RS27u is then resealed to be between 0 and 100 as follows:
                                        0 if 13.4 x (RS27u+10.5) < 0
 100191]        RS27(scaled)-         13.4 x (RS27u+L10.5) if 0 < 13.4 x (RS27u+ 10,5) 100
                                       100 if 13.4 x (RS27u+i0.5)> 100
 [001921 Patients were classified into low, intermediate, and high RS27 groups using pre
specified cut-points defined in Table 13 below. These cut-points defined the boundaries
between low and intermediate RS27 groups and between intermediate and high RS27 groups.
The cutpoints were derived from the discovery study with the intent of identifying substantial
proportions of patients who on average had clinically meaningful low or high risk of adverse
pathology. 'The RS27 was rounded to the nearest integer before the cut-points defining the
RS27 grouops were applied.
                                              Table 13
                 RS27 Group                             Secre
          Low                                  Less than 16
                                                   89

 WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
          Intermediate                      Greater than or equal to 16 and less than
                                            30
          High                              Greater than or equal to 30
Assay Methods
[00193] Paraffin from the samples was removed with Shandon Xylene substitute (Thermo
Scientific, Kalamazoo, MI). Nucleic acids were isolated using the Agencourt@ FormaPure
XP kit (Beckman Coulter, Beverly, MA),
[00194] The amount of RNA was determined using the Quant-iTTM RiboGreen@ RNA
Assay kit (InvitrogenTM, Carlsbad, CA). Quantitated RNA was convereted to complementary
DNA using the Omniscript@ RT kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and combined with the reverse
primers for the 12 genes of RS27 and 5 normalization genes (ARF 1, ATP5E, CLTC, GPS 1,
PGKI) as shown in Table A. The reaction was incubated at 37"C for 60 minutes and then
inactivated at 93"C for 5 minutes.
[00195] The cDNA was preamplified using a custom TaqMan@ PreAmp Master Mix made
for Genomic Health, Inc. by Life Technologies (Carlsbad, CA) and the forward and reverse
primers for all targets as shown in Table A. The reaction was placed in a thermocycler (DNA
Engine PTC 200G, Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) and incubated tinder the following conditions:
A) 95C for 15 see; B) 60'C for 4 min; C) 95 0 C for 15 see; and D) steps B and C were
repeated 8 times. The amplified product was then mixed with the forward and reverse
primers and probes for each of the targets as shown in Table A and the QuantiTect@ Primer
Assay master mix (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and amplified for 45 cycles in a LightCycler@ 480
(Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN). The level of expression was calculated using the
crossing-point (Cp) method,
[00196] RS27 significantly predicted for adverse pathology, non-organ-confined disease,
high-grade disease, and high-grade or non-organ-confined disease, and adds value beyond
biopsy Gleason Score as shown in Tables 14, 15, 16, and 17, respectively.
                            Table 14 Prediction of Adverse Pathology
          RS27 Score                         193                5       0.002
          Central Biopsy Gleason Score       32.86              5       <U.01
         3+4 vs 3+3
                                                90

             WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PCT/US2013/023409
                                          Results obtained from the multivariable multinomial logistic model for cells 2, 3, 4, 5,
                                          and 6 vs I in'T'able 12.
                                          DF:-z. degrees of freedorn
                                                                                                                       Table 15 Prediction of Non-organ-confined disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1..            ,..., 11.              '.-:1                                                                                      . ......                        '111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ................        I:-.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......     . ..
                                                                   I ..":..'.,.
                                                           I..,\\\,..               ...i .\       l\",".      .... .....                                            ,",'                   ..,,%  \Z,....I,T........     - .........         -gn.n.1..M                    I1I...................               ..,..::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '..........    ....      ...   . .        .......,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i::::::::::     ::I:.::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...          .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I........   ,, , I \\ ::.:                           ,::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...    ........                            . ..     .:.:.:.:..:..:..:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .............................................
                                                                                                  ,,.,..,                       :::::::::,::::::::::,
                                                                                                                                ,               -                      x :::::::::::                 .::i                                  . .  .  . .  . . . . . . ...  "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1          .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1     M     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :..     1.1..  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,..:   i.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     : '.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ... ...  .    ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . :::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i  xxxx         ::::::::::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.:i    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...                                         ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......M   .             ..............................  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....................................  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............
                                                             ,\ ,                       ii                                      .........
                                                                                                                              ...:::::::::I::::x I.............
                                                                                                                                       ...............................
                                                                                                                                                                 :::::::I:::           .....  .:...:
                                                                                                                                                                                             :...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                ..:::     ',
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .. . -N
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...                              ..,..!, ,..,"                            .M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I\;-.1   ,IPW"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "ZI   .--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,\".,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ... ..,.-"k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "::::M   .....-....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::::           %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              : I.K..   .\,.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....        ::,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::,   .11  -" . I .t..,.,.,. ,.,i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,1,--                                                      .  . . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I ,. i i . . .  . .  .  ..  .   . .  .. . .   . .. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :.:   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                             ..       ...
                                                                        ,,    ..
                                                                               _                                              ...............................
                                                                                                                                ..................
                                                                                                                                   ........                     .......................
                                                                                                                                                               ....... .......        I               ,   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                          .:.:...   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I D... .,.. ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .&          ,..........   .... . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...... . .  IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '.     lx      ..... .,    I           .    4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .:,               ,      ,        -      ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "                             I     , .1XI,1,....I              .k  g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,\   , ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . . ..   ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .... .  ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I  .   . .  .. . . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................
                                                             ..       ........................                                      ..................
                                                                                                                             ::::::::::::::                   ,........................................
                                                                                                                                                :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . ....                             ::X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,''..'...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :X  ::.                                                   f i N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -.1  ::::::::::       :... X...      , .r . ,\.:,                       ,A  \ ,:::: .............
                                                                   'E'                                                        ::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                          .                   ....................     :::::....
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .... ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......    ..,I11
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..:::::::              ...,. ,....,:"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .. ................  ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .      :::::"  .....        ,%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :...    "I*W                    N     'l   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -...   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..    . .: ..::::-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . -..-------._      . :.:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......     -"I MS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :....                  ,M   ,, -I      .4J, ,1.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.*.*.:::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "A            . N,I,,,,        ,'I
 01\0
 X"
  : . ""         i                 ....
                                    ,     .X  .:             ...
                                                         .....       I..
                                                                     :N   n       ,  ..         .......
                                                                                  .....................
                                                                                                 ...               n         ::::::::
                                                                                                                          .,:,         ..  ,X--X.II.
                                                                                                                              ..........................  ..........
                                                                                                                                          .................. ...........
                                                                                                      ............................................................  ........         I
                                                                                                                                                                                ,..............
                                                                                                                                                                                ,....................:.:              .. , ,1111,11,111,11,1111,           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..............................................      ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                ......    :.:.:.:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......................................................................................      ,      ,   .*.*.*.'.'.*.................-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ................                                                                 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                    ::...I . ......................
                                                                    :..                                :................................
                                                                                                          .................................................
                                                                                                       ....                                  ..............................................
                                                                                                                                 ,..........................................................:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                            ,...........................,...............................,.................................,           :.:.:.:.  :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..............................................      ........  '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,....................................,................................................,         ..-.            .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '.'.'.",***,*.,.*.,.,.,.,.,.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..............................       :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:...............,.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  :.:::::::::::::.,.,.*.*.,.,.,.,.*.,-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...............
 .:...,..:...........................
  .......................                         .............................
                                                    :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.                                 ........................................................      ,........................:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                 .......................................             ........................... .::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.,.,...................'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.................................                     ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..............   ,-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-               ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.      .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-........
 ........................                             .....:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-*-*-----------.-....................................
 ............................................-..........................           ... . . .. ..............................................
 .............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                    .                          ,.,......,.........,.,.....,.,...'    ............................     ...................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............   *.*.*                         ..    ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ............................................                                                     .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .................                    ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......................                    I:::::::::::::::::::.,.,.*.,.,.*.,.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......                       .........
                                                 ----   IRS27                                                                                                                                                            2.20                                                (1.46, 3_3 I)                                                                                     1                               :14.44                                        <0.001
 -..t%.      1I....,....I...............        ............
                                                     ft, .-             --                                                                       -....................................
                                                                                                                                                         ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                ........................
                                                                                                                                                          , ,...,.....................,.......,..,                     .  .....................                           ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......................................................................................................                                       .:I..-.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ----     --------------           I.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.,.*.*.*,.*             .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,.,...........*.,.*.***.*.....*.*..
             ,.IUIfI-V
                               ................
                                        M*'.I   IA
         I.......................................
                                                    .....
  ......................................................
                                                                .0..._  C... I'k   .u...  4,...    .........................
                                                                                                   d    a_. 1:I...     .............
                                                                                                                     ........................
                                                                                                                    ..............
                                                                                                                       ,....
                                                                                                                    '*****           ....
                                                                                                                                      **    *
                                                                                                                                                  -.....................
                                                                                                                                                         ...
                                                                                                                                               '...........
                                                                                                                                           .....
                                                                                                                                .--..................................
                                                                                                                                                  *    **
                                                                                                                                                                 ........................
                                                                                                                                                             *******         '****    ... *:...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                 :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                  '****       '*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..******'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..............************'**    .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........  ,..........................      ............................................-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           **"*'***'*'*********************'**********'*"****'***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........................................                   :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:       ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '*'**"***'*****'*******'*'*".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................           .:.*     ..    ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '*'*'*'****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *'*********"'****'*'*"**********
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....................     ***    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...........................................     I  ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...  *"     ***"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *'*'*******************
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,..............................,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...................       *'*********
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........
 :-:-        :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-
 ......................         :-:-:-:-:-:-:-:.:".,.*.*
   .........................................     *      ...       *.*.  *.*.*
                                                   .........................
                                                     ******             "        .*.*.*  ..  *       ..*.*.,.*..,.,.*.*.*.*...-...................
                                                                                                 ........
                                                                                                   ...........
                                                                             *****************'**'*'*'*******      I         -'***
                                                                                                                                ..    ...........
                                                                                                                                    *********-        ..........
                                                                                                                                            *'***'******
                                                                                                                     ...................................
                                                                                                                   .............................................
                                                                                                                                                             *
                                                                                                                                                        *******  ..     **"
                                                                                                                                                                    ...........
                                                                                                                                                                 *********      **'**
                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                               .........................
                                                                                                                                                                        *******'***          *
                                                                                                                                                                                         .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                 *********
                                                                                                                                                                                      ****'********      *****
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .........          , *************'**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ***********-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '**"       ********"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........................       *-      *****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *'**'*     ............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..     ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *****'*'***'**'**"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             **'**'******'*"  ....................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .............................       *'*******"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........................................            ***   ...............               '   '.................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................                    .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....................                  I  .............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..................
                                                                                                          '....
 .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.,..".*..,..,..,..,..,..*..,....'..'..,..,.,*.,*..*..*......*..,.,*     ,* ,*..*.**..,.....  ......,.,........       ,..,.....,.   .......................     ..........  ,......     ......   .............      ..-......      .............    .............                .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......................... ***   **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...  *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...   ***"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...    *  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..:.::.:.:*.:.:.,.:.:.,* *****    .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          **'*"        ***'**'*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *'*'*'*'********            '*.,.,.,.*.,.*.,.*.*.,.,.,.*.,.*.,.*.,.,.,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::.:.:.:.,.*.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:      .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...   *'***"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             **"        **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ***'*'*".....          ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *.*.*.*.,.*.,,.,.,.,.,.,.*.*.*.**.*,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           *'*'**"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...  *....        *'***'*'****
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *****'**'*****       **
                                                        :
                                                        :: RS27                                                                                                                                                               I ,:I                                          (I.2 5, 2.96)                                                                                     I                                    &97                                      U 03
 _                                                       :                                                                                                                                                            -                                                    - -----------                           ____                                                   -
                                                                 Ceitral Biopsy Gleason                                                                                                                                   1.79                                               (1,04, 3,10)                                                                                      1                                    4.23                                     0.040
                                                                  *-'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i                                    I                                            I
                                                                  Score 3-4 vs 3-3                                                                                                                                    i
- 1 7esults obtained                                         -fromuni                                                                          variable and multivariable binary logistic regression models for
           cells 2, 4., 6 vs. 1, 3, 5 in Table 12
           Odds ratio for RS27 was per 20 unit increase                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .:.:.:.:.:.I      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .........       ::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:.:,:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . .    .:.:.:,:.:.: :  ::: :  ::  :  ::........
                                                                                                                                               Table 16 Prediction                                                                       ..........         of               ...- ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - ..high-grade                                                     disease
                                  .......I..... I " I                                                                                                                                             .... ............
                 ....."     ,    :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                ..          I
                               ...................
                                   .....          ,
                                              ...........              ....... ,
                                                                       -.............
                                                                                 ..         ......                               I-
                                                                                                                                .....  .....                                                                                                                                            .   .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::::::::::::..'     I   ,   W    -        ,,..  ,I:i i I .....                    :::::.    1.7-........        ,:::::::::::::::::::::,0           -..'_:::-I',,          : ,- XX               X......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :.........,
   I".
    ..I       ..,.N<,......
             .......
            ....
          ...
                 .::  :
                      .. ..                   ..:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                               .,..............
                         I,:.:.:.:.:.:,:.:.:.:.:.:
                                               .......
                              .........            ,
                                                  ..  ..."
                                                    ...
                                                      .
                                                                       ......................
                                                                 .........
                                                                         -  -'...  - ...............
                                                                                 ....
                                                                      ...................I
                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                             - .....
                                                                                            ....        .....
                                                                                                       ...
                                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                            n"   .....
                                                                                                                 - ......
                                                                                                                                ..........
                                                                                                                              ---r
                                                                                                                           ..............
                                                                                                                                ,......
                                                                                                                       .............
                                                                                                                                            .,.... _
                                                                                                                                                   n'
                                                                                                                                                  ,..
                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                         ..............
                                                                                                                                                        7,
                                                                                                                                                      .....
                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                                            ....
                                                                                                                                                      ..........
                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                 ....--
                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                        ...            .
                                                                                                                                                                                .............
                                                                                                                                                                      ...........     ..r.
                                                                                                                                                                                        . ..XX
                                                                                                                                                                                            .  ..   X._:..
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..   I_..::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...::X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . ..  .  .  .  ::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...::::::::......I..'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            . .  .  .  .. . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .....1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . .-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,       17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . . ..  .''....:::....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , \N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \\\\.":,>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 : .::::.......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I.,.I   ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :  ::  : :  : : :: :  ::  :  : :  :  : :    . ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .   ... . ..        7' ,..'-, ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M                 - .-..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         : : :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :.:.:.:..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:....             :,:,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :.I...................,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :::::....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::-.....
I .. A           \.:, , ,,,.. i i.............    .
                                                  . . .  .   .   ..      .  ................        .I.................,.,.....      .         :,   ...      :                                    . . . ..       .  . .. . ... .  .  . . . .. .  .  .  .. . . . ...        ' ..'_      .   ... .....  .  .. . . .  . ... . .  I .  . . . I  . . .. .  . . .  . . .  ...          . .. . ... .. ...  .. .   .                 I. .  ... . . . .                                                  :::...::
                                                 . . .
                                                 ...:..,.I,X          I.I..............,........
                                                                        .X..X  ..   X
                                                                      ....................
                                                                                    ..  X  .XX      X....
                                                                                        ..............  X  .....
                                                                                                             XX    ...    . . . .  .
                                                                                                                    -.:..,.::::::::: .
                                                                                                                          .............. . ..
                                                                                                                                       ::::::X. .  .  . . . . .
                                                                                                                                                       :::::::X . . .
                                                                                                                                                                 .,. ,. . . . .
                                                                                                                                                       ........................ .   .. . . . .   . . . . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O  . . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,dd1.  . ...                                            ,                ,    ..      ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  , ...-' .'W:.k                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -# , A#    ,  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .I.N      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .I...-. I.  . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........ .. ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............-         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....... ... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,...-.. ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .... .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , I........... ..  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    , "."'s;        . . .. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , , ", ,                                   ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........      ,.........,.,..........
                  ,M R ........                                     ,  .......
                                                                      ..........             .
                                                                                      ........   . .. . .
                                                                                                  '..................,
                                                                                                           . ..
                                                                                  ,....:.:.:.:,:.:.:::::::::,..                              .
                                                                                                                              ::::::::::::::::,:::::::::-:-::::::::::......                       .      .   ,                        \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,   ,' i           iiN    i          i  ',',                         -:-A                               .o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     il   -                        '-   ::xxx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "                     4     -                                                           ... ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :.P.. ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ....
                 .6 ,.R......
                 MINEM
                                         ...........
                                        .1... .....I ..............
                                        ...........
                                             ...
                                                .......
                                                 :
                                                ... .:,.
                                                                    -   .....
                                                                          :
                                                                              ,.......
                                                                             .,   .,     .............
                                                                                         ................
                                                                                    ............
                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                         ...
                                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                            . . .  ..
                                                                                                                              .........
                                                                                                                                         . .......
                                                                                                                             ::::::::,::::::::::::::,:::,:::                            ....
                                                                                                                                        ,.........................................,.......        :.:.:.:.:   ....    .                                                    I'. - ...    ,,M           "V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,":.....,......         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.'. .  "                    ,      ::xx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........:     xxx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "I.............                                                I, \\"........    ...     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :::::::::::.:.:.::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........    ,      - :::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                        ....                                  I-    X       i         U                       ...  ....,.....                ........                                        ..  ....      :::::::::::::x,,::::...:                                               , : . _...                          ..........          i                                                                                                            -      -        .
                 '1 0 ....
                                        ... -...... ...
                                      I......,.
                                       ...                                  '': -...-, I-.........          I.4,i..:.                           .......
                                                                                                                          . :,:::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                         ...... ........................
                                                                                                                                         I..          ..................  ........I....
                                                                                                                                                        ........I...................
                                                                                                                                ...................................                          ... .,,R. . .    . ,. .:..:..............::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I..$JA                                          m,\;, , 1-      ",::X".-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .." '..,. 1,....,. .:.:;-:--:-                                                .,i \ .::::             ::M    ':tll A.              , lux:   :: :
I
          .....     ..... .....     -41,......
                                            - - ...    -W
                                                       N- -...-......                        I.. ........                        ........................                            -- . ..,, .................
                                                                                                                    ........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       ........                     :::::::                   - ...    ...                                         ...:-:.:.:.:-:-:.:-:-:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :.:.:.:.:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::-:-:-:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....................                                   ......1.......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...........................................                                             ..I, :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ................     :::...                  :-:.:.:.:.:..,:..,:.:.:......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......................                     .I..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ......
    ::             I  M             M                                 A      .                                                                                                 .:.::.:.:.::.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                .......................................
                                                                                                        !::..,..*..*..*..,..,..*..*..,..*..,..*..*..*..................                                   ,  .......................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:       .:.:.:.::.:.:.:.:    .      ........                            ............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.-.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.-...........................................-         .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........                .......                    .................           ..   ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..............................................
    :.I..............
          .f  '    ::,-             ................
          .............................        ...
                                                         I,  ,E,
                                                         .....
                                                                     :"   ..
                                                                         R8,7
                                                                             .
                                                                             I
                                                                            ...   i*4   .t        *,1   :...........................................
                                                                                                                                         ................................
                                                                                                                           ...............
                                                                                     .......................................
                                                                                                 .............................
                                                                                                                                                            ..........,...........,....................,
                                                                                                                                                             .....................
                                                                                                                                                                    ...    - -.........
                                                                                                                                                                          _,__           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I  .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ___ ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....     __ .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..: :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...........................................
                                                                                                                            .........................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - -_ _.......................                            ...-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _ ......................................,\     I.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..................                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   ...............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .... .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .. . . ..  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .       ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..I....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..........
       .................................................................
       : 'A .'.'.,) '.*.,.,.,.,*.'.".:i:-:-:. '- -:, .,- .......
          .. I ,                6 - i*( .. a *
                                                                         _,",.....
                                                                          __
                                                                      I ,:.
                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                   *.......
                                                                              . IWII ii "*I *0-1 ..............
                                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                                     *.*" .....
                                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                                                             ... ...............
                                                                                                                                            ** .,. ............
                                                                                                                                ******..............................
                                                                                                                                     ,........
                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                             I................
                                                                                                                                                          I....
                                                                                                                                                                        -, .,
                                                                                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                                                                      ,..............................,.,
                                                                                                                                                                          ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                         n 7:T       N ', r ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,48
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......... . .,- ............. -TT........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,.....,...,..,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ........................                 ...........,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :(I 60, 3.8 5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .:.:.:.    :.::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.:.,.,.,.*.*.,.*.*...*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...................                       ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                : tZ,7" ,",- . <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *.,.......,.*.*.......*.,.,.,.,.,.*..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .. ... .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .............                 . ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .*.,.,.*.,....*.,.*.*.,....*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..*.,.*....*.*.,.*.*.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.*.,.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ... ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................                     ......            .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I.....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7Vn :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......................................
          ..............................................                                                             :............
                                                                                                                        .......................................
                                                                                                                                                  ....
                                                                                                                                               .......         -,........
                                                                                                                                                                       - ...1....... I..
                                                                                                                                                                                     .....
                                                                                                                                                                     .................         :.:.:.:.:.
                                                                                                                                                                                         . ......            ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :.:.:.:.*.:.*.:.:.:.:.*.:.:.*.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:"..*.*.*-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............................                                   ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.........'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.I         .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'....    .......................                      .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....................
                 ......................................................               *                         ..........................................                                                I ..       .........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........................                                ...........................................                                                    .................                      .......................                      .....................    '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.I
          .........................................................................................
                 ......................................                                                                                                                                                      ............................                                   ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....................                                                                         .................                      .......................                      .....................
          .........................................................................................
       I.........................................................................................
           ..................................                                               - ...- - ......                           I.. ...- - , .....                                                     ............................                                   ...........................................  I......                                           .................                      .......................                      ............                  ....  _
                                                                                                                                                                             - ...        -         ...I ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........                ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........           ....    I         ...    ............                                                                                ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .......         - ....         I.. - I.. ..................                                                                            ......................
                                                                         RS27        ........                                       ...........
                                                                                                          ..................................                 ...     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                          .......                2, ':)/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I - .........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1.46, 3,67)                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <0,00 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I . ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ....................
                                                                                                                                                       .....        .......................                  ..    f.'--"
                                                                                                                                                                                                  - .1 ..............                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I - .........                                                                                      -                                ,
                                                                         Central Biopsy Gleason                                                                                                                                               ............                    (0.7 -5,2.4 7 )            ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ... .............................                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I .................                          OM                                             0 3 22
       ::                                                                Score                            3-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................
                                                                      __-_____ vs 3+3                                                                                                                      1                                                              1                                                                           ........                                                                                               I .........
 LI-111-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .................                       .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ... - ....
           Results obtained Erom univariable and multivariable binary logistic regression models for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I- - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - ....
            cells 5, 6 vs. 1-4 in Table 12)
            Odds ratio for RS27 was per 20 unit increase
                                                                                   Table 17 Prediction of high-grade or non-organ-confined disease                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.7.-.7.7.7.7.7.7.7.7.7.7.1             ,7; ,                             ..........I           .........                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                         :,-        ",.. '.7.7 55557                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                   "'..".111-
                                                                                                                                                        .......................................     ....... 17.7,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...............................       . ..............  .. ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ........  N...........          WNNNNI                                               77                                          7       _ : :::111111_11             1 I',- 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :I
                    '- \\ \ '.',':':I..........
                                        ....................     ...........     .. .. 7 i5 5 . .7 ... .               5  7     5       55   55    ..  ................."....,............   .........        ..................I............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...   .....      ....       ,..:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....                  .....       ......         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ... , :: .::::::::::::,:,.....................................,                              ... .....                                                        ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,...................................... ..' .. ........             ...........
                                      ...........                      ...       ........  ....    I............
                                                                                                     ............               ...      .........
                                                                                                                                 ............             ....                                    : : :..
                                                                                                                                                                                                        : : :.   : : : :....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         : : : : ::   : : :: : : : : : : : :"      .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . ... .. ...............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ' .,.            ...................  ,.............................................     , M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :.:,.      1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -.. ...                                                     .....I...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          , .,........."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...........           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,............,...        ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .. .........................................
                                                 ..... .........            ..........             .........               ...   ...                                                 ....    ....
                                                                  ...............
                                                                 .........................          ................:.:.:.:.:.:.:                      :,:
                                                                                                                                                        ..:....      : : : :....
                                                                                                                                                             : : : :....     : :   : :: : : :  :  .....                                                                     I .  .    ......      .............             ............                 .,      .-      ...     I ......                      ........
                                   :::,z......  ..... ..................              ..........................       . . ...
                                                                                             ,.......,...........................
                                                                                                                     .....   . I. I......     ....
                                                                                                                                      ...............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........            . .   .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...................................                 . ..........               .............             ......,......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I..,............  .'.. . 1.. . .. . . . .IZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,                ....... ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :............                                   .....,....... ..... . . .- X X XX X X:
                                    ' ..... .......I
                                                  . . .I..
                                                 ...                                       I......I          . , ....         .. . ............             ...
                                                                                                                                       ........................     ........
                                                                                                                                                                ,..... ............  ,...........  ........ ..............                  ............::                   ::::::::::::::::::      ::::::::::::", :::::::::::::::::::::
          -               .:.             ...............         .........
                                                       . .I............        I....
                                                                                  . ...............   ..........................       ......................................................    , . . . . ........................... ...I........................ ..:.......                                                                  :                                   ..... ,                 ......... .                                                     ........................................
                                                 ...                                  ......     .. ..........."............                              ............ .... ..... ..............                 .........................                            . .....I . , .....                                                                               ':..                                                                                                   ..,...................,................
                                                  ....
                                                ...   .. ......        .........                   .............                   :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::                                                  ..............     ,..                                     ....................                                                              W
                              \                  :...........    ................
                                                                               ,..""   '..'.,.........................
                                                                                     ...    ...... .............
                                                                                                          .........          .,:,......I...I....... .........I                                    ......... ..................................
                                                                                                                                                                                               ......            ..... .................I
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............................          ,........... . ,.-. ....  ......   ....I.....     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ....            ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I...    - .:. .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........  : :,:,:. ::::::::::   K::: \\\\X,:::               11 \W \                                                                  XXXXXXXXXXX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............X            X X X:
                                                   ..:,:: ...
                                               K....                   ............
                                                                  ::::::::::::               x :::::::,::.,.,                   ....
                                                                                                                                .                                                          ........                                                                                                         ............             ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ' . . I.....I            ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I......          .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .I. .                                                                                                                  ".,."...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..................
                                                   - : ......                                                                         : ...
                                                                                                                                          :,:...
                                                                                                                                        :...        :,::..
                                                                                                                                             :I:......
                                                                                                                                                  : ...          ...   : : : : : : :: : : : :
                                                                                                                                                                 :,:: ...
                                                                                                                                                          : :I:.....................                    ..           "            ,           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ::::::,:::::,::::::::::::                    ... ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::::::,:        :                                  ,             .....,   .               .     .                                                                                              .....................
                                                                                                                                                                             .....I......                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                         I. ..........
                                                                     ::'I                   ; I......................,.............           ........................  ,...................,............
                                                                                                   ...................................................................................                  .. ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,.,...,....     ...   ... ......                                 .... . .-                       ,                                                                                                                                                                      :................
                                                                 .......                     ... ...................
                                                                                                               ..... ...............    ""..:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:,:.:            k- 'I... ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :I...             ,                   .........    ....       ..q ,, , :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : ,W A \,,"                        :             ... .                                                                                                           ....'        ,........,..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INS
                                                                       ...........           I....................   ,........  ......I.........,       ................                I...::::::::::                              "                                                                      ., ,                    ,                                  \4
                                                          . ......
                                                                 ...
                                                                         .,             .'.:::   ........
                                                                                                   ,.......
                                                                                              .:....      .....           . .:.:.:.:.:,::.I.
                                                                                                                     .:.:.:   ...............,.,............
                                                                                                                                                I.. -I...........
                                                                                                                                             .:.:.:.           .........,..... .......
                                                                                                                                                                             ...I...............
                                                                                                                                                                                        .... I... :.:            A:,:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:,:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:....        ..,. ....  '.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...         .......                                                                                                                                                                ... :..,..1,.M ,           ,::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                              ..                                          .......
                                                                                                                       :::::::::::::::::::'IN       :,.......................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....................................................
                                                                                                                                                          ........,..............,..........
                                                                                                                                                         .............
                                                                                                                                                       .....                 ..................
                                                                                                                                                                      '................            ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                  .....  . :.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                               . .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W. .i ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                . - ,....:.:.    '.         1. . .1                                                          I                   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                              11--- .. , -                              .........
                                                                                                                             ....               ..,.. ....... .................
                                                                                                                                      ............                    ...................         ... . '.. 1,
                                                                                                                                                                                           . .,.:....::..                      ..                ...,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . .. Z i ii , ..1.........                                          , , .                                    .                                                                                                            : : : : : : : : : : :, 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,..
                                                                                                                                ........                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                  Z                                                                      ...                                                                             - W ,                                                                                                                                 1. - .                                                     k"I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           \                 L                                ....................   :...:...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :11    : : :: :
                                                                                                                                                        - ..........                                                                        xx xxx ,: :                                                                                                        ... , ......................                                            **,**,**,******,
          ::,***"**" **..............                             . .. . ...... ...... . . ..,.. . ...... . . , .........             ,.........................  .....,....*.,.                   .,......,.......................                               x x ..................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...............................     :.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..................................................................................        ....                                 ,**.......................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:     ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .:.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .:.:.:.:.:.:.,.,.,.,.*.*.,.*.,.,.,.*.,.,  .,.......................................I
                                                                                                  ... 1 :..*..*..*..*
                                                                                                           ....      -.*..*..*.*.*.**.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.,.*.*.*  '..*.*.*.*.'.'.'.' ...
                                                                                                                            ........................................                               ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                       " , ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....      .......................................................      ...,...........................................................,..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........................................                                                I..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              . . .. ...................................                  ................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....................................         ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.......................................
                                                                                                          I.......................             ................   ,...........................
                                                                                                     -*.,...,...............,.......................,....................................I           - I .......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,........I                                              ....,.....................................................................................                                                       .:.:.:.:.:.:     .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.: .,.*.,.,.,.*.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.*.*.,.*.,.,
                      I
                      .-
                      U     .V ...
                            S.
                            ""'     :.0 .* b !"0                      4 I1. d
                                                             , ,.,*.'I.-.                                                                                                                                        ........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........................................................     .....   . . . . . . .................................................................      ..................................
          .........................................................................................
           .........................................................................................                                                                                               ...     I     ...........................                                .........................................                                                 ........................                            *.......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *...*'****"*" *. .*                     " **'*'*************'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....  *" *" ****'**'
          ......................................................................................
           .........................................                                                 .....
          ..................................................................................................     - .......................
                                                                                                                         .........             ............................
                                                                                                                                               ..........................  ,...........,.............,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                         - ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...........................            .........            .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..................                       .........         :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:      ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.*.*.:.:.:  .'-'-'-'-" ..*%,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .... - X    *.....                                            ,.......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -..............
                                                                                        - ...         - ....                                                                                                                 ,......................................................................................................                   .......         ..    - - .............                               -:-:-:-::: .,.:.:.:.:.:::-:::-:::-:       ....      .................
          .....................................                                                                         -                                                           I-                                                                                                                                  --
                                                                    RS2!                17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.23                                                       :(1,52,3,27)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ...........                                                                                 1                                                  17. 7 "I                                          <0.001
          :.................................................................
           .'N -.-.-.       I.t.. ................ ,....-        ..... k .....     --..                                                            ................
                                                                                                                                                  ...........        ,..............................
                                                                                                                                                                 . ....
                                                                                                                                                               ...................       .....    .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..........    ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,..    I..................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...................                ,....  .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...........   .......           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........                        ,..........-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,................................................................................         *.  ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.::.:..,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................                            ..........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .:.:.:.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..........................................     ,.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:  :..:...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,.,.*.*.,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,..................................    ..
           *..
            .........
             t .1     , "...U
                     .....................
                    ....           '  M      T. -M-,i....;       -.1.     ..::.*..    ,
                                                                                     ..
           :..............................................................................
                                                                                     :.-)...
                                                                                       N      -9,,--
                                                                                                .          i.......
                                                                                                                ..,i .:.:.:.*.,.,.*.*.*.,.*.,.,.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.,.*.*.,.*.,.*.*.,.*.,.*.*.,.,.*.,
                                                                                                    j,......................,.......................................................
                                                                                                               11                            ;    ............................
                                                                                                                                                       ............
                                                                                                                                                   ...............
                                                                                                                                                  ........                           ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                   ............
                                                                                                                                                                     ..................                        ....      ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                               *.,.,.*..*.*.*.,.*.*.*.*.*.*.,.*.*.*.,.,.,.,.*.,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............................. I..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ............               ........             ................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....                  ......  .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..........................    ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.......            ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .   ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ............................................   I.................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .........................................................                           .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...................................
                                .      ."
            ...........................................................
          .................................................
                                                         ,...    ......
                                                                  ........... .........           -.......
                                                                              ,.......................'                             .......
          .:....,,.........:.:...:.:...........:.".*""'.*.......................................,..............................,........................
                                                                                                                             ...............   .............
                                                                                                            I...............................................   ....................      ............................................
                                                                                                                                                                           I..............                I11  ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .............        .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ........................... ...                   .*.*..   ........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - .............................................                   .....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ........................     ........                ,.................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....        -.................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........................             ........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     _ _ _ ___ . .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ._                                          ..,     .......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...............            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I ...................
                                                             ITRS27                                                                                                                                                 1 93                                                        (1,30, 188)                                                                                1                                                 10,70                                       ::0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ... ...................
        !..............               www     .... ....                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         91

 WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
             Central Biopsy Gleason       194       (1,17, 321)      1          6.45     0.011
             Score 3+4 vs 3--3
*Results obtained from univariable and multivariable binary logistic regression models for
cells 2, 4, 5, 6 vs. 1, 3 in Table 12
Odds ratio for RS 17 was per 20 unit increase
100197] In addition, RS27 predicted adverse pathology beyond conventional
clinical/pathology treatment factors as shown in Table 18.
     Table 18 Prediction of Adverse Pathology Beyond Conventional Clinical/Pathology
                                         Treatment Factors
RS27                                  21.46                   5<U.01
Original Biopsy Gleason Score         22.77                   5               <0.001
RS27                                  19.31                   5               0.002
Central Biopsy Gleeason Score         32.86                   5               <0.001
RS27                                  30,09                   5               <0,00I
Clin T2 v. T1                         11.94                   5               0,036
RS27                                  30. 17                  5               <0001
Baseline PSA (ng/rnl) <10 v       i0  10.44                   5               0,064
RS527                                 30,75                   5               <0,001
Continuous PSA                        15,17                   5               0,010
RS27                                  26,36                   5               <0,001
Age                                   19.05                   5               0,002
RS27                                  2920                    5               <0.001
Pct Core Positive                     4.75                    5               0 447
[00198] When added to conventional clinical/pathology tools such as CAPRA, R.S27 further
refined the risk of high grade or non-organ-confined disease, Using CAPRA alone, 5% of
patients were identified as having greater than 85% probability of being free from high-grade
                                                92

 WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
or non-organ-confined disease compared to 22% of patients identified of being free from
high-grade or non-organ-confined disease using RS27 in addition to CAPRA (Figure 8).
[001991 When added to conventional clinical/pathology tools such as AUA (D'Amico et al.,
JAM4 280:969-974, 1998), RS27 further refined the risk of high grade or non-organ-confined
disease. As shown in Figure 9, using AUA alone, 0% of patients are identified as having
greater than 80% probability of being free from high-grade or non-organ-confined disease
compared to 27% of patients identified of being free from high-grade or non-organ-confined
disease using GPS in addition to AUA.
{00200] Individual genes and gene groups of RS27 were also associated with adverse
pathology, high-grade disease, non-organ-confined disease, and high-grade or non-organ
confined disease, in univariable analyses as shown in Tables 19, 20, 21, and 22, respectively.
    Table 19 Association of Genes and Gene Groups with Adverse Pathology, Univariable
                                           Analyses
    BGN                                            7.11             50.213
    COLiA1                                         7.88             5           0.163
    SF1RP4                                         8.87             5           0.114
    FLNC                                          12.26             5           0.031
    GSN                                            5.73             5           02333
    GSTM2                                          1L84             5           0.870
    TPM2                                          18.33             5           0.003
    AZGP1                                         22.87             5          <0.001
    KLK2                                           5.97             5           0.309
    FAM13CI                                       2L.55             5          <0.001
    SRD)5A2                                        9.30             5           0.105
    SRD5A2 Thresholded                             9.25             5           0.099
    TPX2                                          14.26             5           0.014
    TPX2 Thresholded                              23.34             5          <0.001
                                               93)

 WO 2013/116144                                                     PCT/US2013/023409
    Ref Gene Average                           3.27                      0.659
    Stromal Group Score                        9.84           5          0.080
    Cellular Organization Group                8.04           5          0.154
    Score
    Androgen Group Score                      29.46                      <0 001
    Proliferation Group Score                 23.34                      <0001
    GPS                                       29.98           5          <0.001
   Table 20 Association of Genes and Gene Groups with Hgh-Grade Disease, Univariable
                                       Analyses
BGN                                       367         1     0.055   1.46     (0.99, 2.15)
COLA1                                     2,33        1     0.127   1.32     (0.93, 1.87)
SFRP4                                     6.08        1     0.014   1.33     (1.06, 1.67)
FLNC                                      3.04        1     0.081   0.77     (0.57, 1.03)
GSN                                       0.14        1     0.710   0.94     (0.67, 1.32)
GSTM2                                     0,03        1     0.870   0.97     (0.69, 1.37)
TPM2                                      2.85        1     0.091   0.76     (0.56, 1.04)
AZGP1                                    12.69        1   <0.001    0.58     (0.42, 079)
KLK2                                      3.50        1     0.061   0.62     (0.38 1.02)
FAM13CI                                   9.29        1     0.002   0.51     (0.33, 0.79)
SRD5A2                                    3.26        1     0.071   0.76     (056, 1.02)
SRD5A2 Thresholded                        2.70        1     0.100   0,75     (0.53, 1.06)
TPX2                                      1.72        1     0,190   1.21     (0.91, 1.59)
TPX2 Thresholded                          7.38        1     0.007   1.93     (1.20,3.11)
Ref Gene Average                          1.18        1     0.277   0.86     (0.65 1.14)
Stromal Response Group Score              4.92        1     0.027   1.49     (1.05 2.12)
Cellular Organization Group               1.12        1     0.290   0.87     (0.66 1.13)
Score
Androgen Group Score                     15.07        1    <0.001   0.69     (0.58, 0.83)
Proliferation Group Score                 7.38         j    0.007   1.93     (1.20, 3.11)
                                           94

 WO 2013/116144                                                             PCT/US2013/023409
    Table 21 Association of Genes and Gene Groups with Non-Organ-Confined Disease,
                                      Univariable Analyses
BGN                                            2.5        1      0.109      1.34    (0,94, 1.91)
COLIAI                                         2.9        1      0.089      1.33    (0.96, 1.83)
SFRP4                                          4.39       1      0,036      1.25    (1.01, 1.54)
FLINC                                          0.34       1      0.560      0.92    (0.70, 1.21)
GSN                                            0,2        1      0.603      0.92    (0.67, 1126)
GSTM2                                          0.16       1      0.693      0.94    (0,68, 1.29)
TPM2                                           0.511      1      0.473      0,9     (0,67, 1.20)
AZGP1                                        12.44        1     <0.001      0.59    (0.44, 0.80)
KLK2                                           210        1      0.148      0.71    (0.45, 1.12)
FAM13C                                       12.42        1      0,00       0.48    (0.32, 0.73)
SRD5A2                                         2.42       1      0.120      0.8     (0.60, 1.06)
SRD5A2 Thresholded                             26                0.103      0.77    (0.56, 1.06)
TP6.3                                                     1      0.012      1.39    (1.08,1L81)
,TPX2 Thresholded                              6.51       1      0.011      1.82    (1.14, 2.89)
Ref Gene Average                               0.33       1      0.563      0.93    (0.73, 1.19)
Stroma Response Group Score                    4.24       1      0.040      1.41    (1.02 1.95)
Cellular Organization Group Score              0.45       1      0.504      0.92    (0.72 1.18)
Androgen Group Score                         14.64        1     <0001       0.71    (0.60, 0.85)
Proliferation Group Score                      6.51       1      0.011      182     (114 2.89)
 Table 22 Association of Genes and Gene Groups with Figh-Grade or Non-Organ-Confined
                                  Disease, Univariable Analyses
BGN     ______________3                         1       1     0.076    1.33       (0.97, 1.84)
   COL1A1                                     196
                                              L_____    1     0.162    1.23       (0.92 1.65)
SFRP4        ____________7,08                           1     0.00     1.29       (1.07 1L55)
FLNC                                         2.36       1     0.125    0.83       (0.65 1L06)
GSN                                          0.45       1     0.503    0.91       (0.68.1L20)
GSTM2                                        0,49       1     0,484     0.9       (0.68 1.20)
TPM2                          ___            2.24       1__   0.135    0.82       (0.635LO6)
AZGPI                                       12.20       1     0.001    0.61       (0.46. 0.82)
KLK(2                                        2.18       1     0.140    0.73       (0.48, 1.11)
                                                95

 WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
            TP23.50                                    1       0,062  1.25        (0.99, 1.58)
TPX2 Thresholded                             5.86      1       0.016  1,73        (1.09, 2.74)
Ref Gene Average                             0,68      1       0.041_ 0.L          0,7 3 , L.14)
Stromal Response Group Score                 4.59      1       0,032  1.37        (1.03, 1.84)
Cellular Organization Group15                                  02.    087         (7010)
Androgen Group Score                        16.56      1     <0.001   0.72        (0.61, 0,84)
Proliferation Group Score                    5,86      1       0.016  1L73        (1.09, 2.74)
           Example 5: RS27 Adds Value Beyond PTEN/TMPRSS2-ERG Status in
                                 Predicting Clinical Recurrence
[00201] PTEN rnutation and TMPRSS2-ERG fusion genes are conunonly associated with
poor prognosis in prostate ca ncer. Here, RS27 was analyzed to determine whether it can
provide value beyond PTEN/TMPRSS2-ERG status in predicting clinical recurrence,
[00202] PTEN and TMPRSS2-ERG fusion expression levels obtained in the gene
identification study described in Example I above and in U.S. Pub. No. 20120028264 were
used to stratify patients into PTEN low and PTEN normal groups. PTEN and TMPRSS2
ERG ("T2-ERG") status of the patients were found as follows:
                 Table 23. Distribution of PTEN Expression by T2-ERG Status
         1
      1                 2    ~ERG Neaie(53%)                fl-ERG Positive (47%)
[00203] A cutpoint for "PTEN low" was made at <=8,5, which included approximately 13%
of T2-ERG negative patients and 28% of T2-ERG positive patients. PTEN normal was
defined as >8.5.
[00204] Univaraible Cox Proportional Hazards was applied to evaluate the association
between PTEN status and time to clinical recurrence (cR). Figure 10 and Table 24 show that
PTEN low patients have a higher risk of recurrence compared to PTEN normal patients.
[00205]
                                                96

 WO 2013/116144                                                                   PCT/US2013/023409
                                             Table 24.
         CN Sq                           P-value                            HR                      95% C
         12.44                           <0.001                            0.38                     (022.0,65)
[002061 When the patients were further stratified into PTEN low/T2-ERG negative
("category 0"), PTEN low/T2-ERG positive ("category 1"), PTEN normaliT2-ERG negative
("category 2"), and PTEN normal/T2-ERG positive ("category 3"), both PTEN low
categories had the lowest recurrence rates compared to PTEN normal patients as shown in
Figure II and Table 25.
                                             Table 25.
         PTENff2-ERG categories                CHISQ                     P-VALUE                  95% Cl
         Cat 1 vO                               0.93                     0,34                     (0.28.55)
         Cat2 v                                 11.80                    <001                     (02,056)
         Cat 3 v 0                              7.05                     0.01                     (0 16 0.78)
[00207] The tables below summarize the results of a multivariable model with PTEN/T2
ERG status (Table 26) or PTEN status (Table 27), RS27, and biopsy Gleason Score (Bx GS),
demonstrating that RS27 adds value beyond PTEN and T2-ERG markers and Biopsy GS in
predicting clinical recurrence.
                                             Table 26.
                VARIABLE           DF              CHISQ       P-VALUE            HR           95% C1
      RS27                                          64,13        <0.01           1.07        (1.051.09)
      PTENJT2-ERG Status           3                 1.59         0.66
      PTEN/T2-ERG (Cat I v. 0)      1               0.06          08             091         (041198)
       PTEN r2-ERG (Cat 2 v. 0)                      1.17         0.2            0,65        (0,29142)
      IPTENTl2-ERG (Cat 3 v. 0)     1               0.14              10.6                   (0 i   KK 9
            S     -                 2               7,9           003
        x   5 (7 v. 6)              1       [       6 86          0 01           0 .40       (0.200.79)
        x GS (8+ v. 6)              1                1.35         0.24           0.69        (0.36,1.29)
                                              Table 27.
               VARIABLE         DF    CHISQ          P-VALUE        HR             95% CI
                  -----          1     6667             <0.1       1u07         (1.05 1 09)
              PTEN Status        1     0.86              0.35      078          (0. 46,1 32)
                  BXC            2        43             0064[                            __
                 BG(7v.86)       1     &12               0.01      042       {(,104
             Bx GS (8+v.6)       1      115              0.28      0.71         (0,37,1.33)
                                                  97

  WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
          CD                     o       0         0         000o579                               .soed                                           0oH        dog            o0
                                                             < -          9                                       <C                         <.                      .
                  <e:       4 u          o<
                                         <<<~o        ae
                                                   ~O=""          o       m-                                                      <-0 (Do o<
                                                                                                                           400>Ou0QHOf                  s          oc            e
                            F0>. Q :J            on..0<                   s              --                             -<                  < (9  o0       G       o
                                                                               00 0           00                                            O0      O:e 3< H.o
                       -r            (-- (4                  HD CO                                         0                           -   -       --      O u
                                                                                                 '<<                          ovu8<--                                       80
                        <
                      <.)O o          0      0          t. .4 CDo<0 s 00H0
                                                 ~4&o~s8~~8o0R                     -oo          e 2u '     .0 d   <   :.<
                                                                                                                    ~C)    o           <o'ruo
                                                                                                                                           a : 5 a O 3e                   b-' e
                                                                                                                                                                          HH<0-
                   0O<O <OC                     0':...0f-<0                    C4)0            00 -       0     ee0O<-                       O<---<,          <HOH
               0                              nOKHCl-ee.. .                 OHO:HOO.                      coH<              o04 90OO0                         He00H
                                     u    ~~                  -    OOr-        O          O       H-       -ms -e<-..- - <O
                                                                                                              0-                  o--CCC          <<--    O oe- O0H           --
                                               -<C,                0-<e(o                 -w oom-                 <        o           e     ~    o        a       c
                                                                                             8~                                                         <
                                                               400H<OH                           _                sg!83uaSO<LpH
                                                                                            0                                                  <<
                                                                    C     <CO                                     0<
                                                        <
                                              H 04                                                                Hu <0
           H
             LoH3
                 O<C
              -H<en
                                 O.
                                   H:0
                                   <N>
                                       H9   oe<     ~
                                                    <H
                                                  33<oow
                                                              CDD    eeo                 H
                                                                                       o09       ~    09
                                                                                                            0 o~2os
                                                                                                                                  [ Hz [3<-0<HO
                                                                                                                           ~--T? [30 0
                                                                                                                                                  ~- L.~0-~4   <.
                                                                                                                                                                     ~0
                                                                                                                                                                     )[
                                                                                                                                                                          < oo ~
                                                                                                                                                                         <)0
                                                                                                                                                                     CDHC<
                                                                                                                           C.)C0H
              .H04<H>                     O0<<--P                 <;~<00              - <    < n  0    -       <o O"                                 t          .;- 9<.060<
             H3os.<
                          ecHe
                                         '-e---  [<sc
                                                 <             000rHOeN- 0< '
                                                                  ~o    Ci~o-        e        o        y           e
                                                                                                                       0                                      c.<
                                                                                                                                           :-. ') '0 00<.>0<:..O
                 or <oH0                       00<000DN-C-..0<<OO4HIuOeo0nOO0<0U4
                                                          H <H 0)              0          0CHp)<<H0<o                                                 ]       O
                                                                    4CD<0<                                0         - oO 40 <C H<OO                          C9          <C
                 w  -          <O
                                  CI: CCA              r
                                                           -i..
                                                              ,n:
                                                                     0<----
                                                                     <      s      oU <o
                                                                          Q0 -. f-<<coe
                                                                                        :-
                                                                                                  D      O 0 Cd~.
                                                                                                           - - - -:< -:-- -
                                                                                                              c             e0) 0
                                                                                                                                           <22222~
                                                                                                                                             -     <<--
                                                                                                                            0 .Do 0< b I-- C r0 < ' u <
                                                                                                                                                o nu 1 12 2
                                                                                                                                                              (
                                                                                                                                                             -s0            -
                                                                                                                                                                                 <
                                                      : 0o0               " <o                wI                             0            :0 <w Co*<
                                                                                                                                          :00                                  oo
                     <co         esOAO~ooscwerstceN--'eH                                                                                            00400~ec
       OH                0'              0           0 <09F-                     ~            00000                           '      3..<9~20                            e?
                        0
                               <Cpo&,n                         h<         e    <c    coo        0o                 o>       !8         0  H[               H V <>5                (
                                                                   0      0
                                                                               <0
                C
                     0<                0
                               HOO<000<<<<CO99               HH
                                                               C<<O
                                                                     Oo 0<oo.00.         <
                                                                                              OH
                                                                                             (D
                                                                                                            ~:0   <0C
                                                                                                                                         DPO
                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                             D      oQ~
                                                                                                                                                                              p
                                                                                                                                                                               ~-H
                               R~        h sb   a~~~~~~                        <
                                                                                                          0                          jok
                                                                                                                                                                        -<'
                                                                                                                                                                                 <
                                                                                                 0                ::0              ,   0 <$$    Qod~ <(D
                                       0 0
                           0 00              0OH0                    01         OCD~OOU$00hn                                                 O>OCDi--                    (:
          4-) ,5             -I-                   ~                                          ur-r::                                   C. -- to                :~~<)- o
                            .......          io            o4.0       -0
                                                                      '.)       <;            N
                                                                                              Ne<-                     <.se  ..     .::.u
                                                                                                                                     ..... e        -   <      c c            u
                                                                       I< ---                                               P- r-. r i
                                                      P- n - o in
                                                                                                  2 oi aD-
                                                                                                                                                                     .
u                          --. 1 ,o           t
                                                                                e e6 QCeO m                                !:   . si e o O &c:                  s . L6
                                                                                                                                                         < Ie r-)
                                                                                                                                 (
                W.        O- CO.                          :x               <                                                                                           ~ 6    Ci "<e
                                       o                                                                                                                M M-F.
    CC
                                                                       N             c      'tou       C'xCxor              Co              C) 0NN            No cD
           -     Or     r-V                                e-'Cc0 r otO
                                     -> >0r>>CO oO.N-')NCO')>0N(toO~t~ttoO      r              O-                      OA --         -0 )    -0 1 0-- 0- C -N- I----           o --
                                                                                                                                                                              C,
                                                                              <                                                        CL:
                                                                               98

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                                                       PCT/US2013/023409
                       0*
                           (   e-              >D<<
                                               rao.                                         -                        --    <       -0
                                                                                                                                    '.n
                                                                                                                                                . <       oo                            .        o
                        0                 Ho            co-             0s;~-        0<          o            e        ore      H< Uooo00000<00                                           S           <i8  0J
                                                                                                                               0
                               <0                                                                0                 0              >         0       CD                                                      2-
               MOOK                 N.:-                              oH             s<-00             0                                                                                         401
    0 j
                           0H oH..H-                             0.oO<1o   a               00
                                                                                                                     0                                             <L)                          o
           O-
              odoo~~~~~~~~~O -c           p0:,-e
                                                          >- (9HOOHO
                                                                      (<        o.o
                                                                                                   H.
                                                                                                        o.<e.-<
                                                                                                                               '<0                  H<)-
                                                                                                                                                          0     c e< rfu           ~
                                                                                                                                                                                          e/8 O
     <H(O      0< 0~o                  .         0 .:              -'H                     HO1 :.               -       :ooeeo                    0 i-          4               :- o               8 <1o0
                                             oY<                      L)                                u                  <-~                    ~              0<          HO00
                                     02< 00 : (Do                            I                   <            o0                                  < oL -o                               H                   OH
                               S
                               e 00<0a e        ex-o~or   po   o~o<<000o o           0.     0           40-0~< <o0                                  oooo
                                                                                                                                              s.ooo<0<H                      oDIco fM8    i--000<     p        os
                                                                  0
                        0H00o.oogr                                   H       y-             Oo:.OO                           ~<o                    -o54                        e          re
         o   o<om          O <-<H- >                  -                                     ~ <HH-0<H H:0:..0e <~~0o0I0<
                                                                                            0 0               :< -                    HO -H---IO---    ---<-
                                                                                                                                                                00<          0.0          0<-- '<0~1<
                  <HUH --                      <<                 00 :..Hse;<<<OOO<<i.:O0-00L00H10
                                                                                                                          << U       O o          <
                                                                                                                                                  N       N to <                 <    t< 0       0              4
         o>                                    c   N                             o:-N         t.     :n        o           --  :'   t  oC N       -    o to      ->     .   v-  to     t> C      N     -    CC  C>
                                   -                                    o       ~         <.
                                                                                           ;0ccp00a                   e-            POOM < oor..o'            <         ,   C   J  <<<<      c'             <o    -9H
                     0~0~~0c                        o -                         wo0              e<Cn<os~opoo                                                               0,i-:o                       :C
                                               00                                    < <                                                      Z        <$Ho)&0b                                    .-
              0              <<            00  <            .--                                                                                   0             (D          <~-
                                                                                                                                                                          1                                 0
                                  0060<              0      H0           0o        QHo                     -:.0                    '    5              < 0 9                    eis   O~            <-00        0
                                                                                                                                                   HOC                 e               s-             <00
                                     <               0    (D r                              <
                                                                                                                           <-o8oo<                              <
              O4                                                         00<0H
                                                                                                                               0 0           0<            ,    :-oQoo                               o         <
                          Cr            -* V    Mo        t00              ;0 ot                 C       w C t             o                   I<    N~.V0           cto
                                                                                                                                                                      -           :       o00r
                                                                        <<                                                                                                                                 t
                                                          0<                <<HOH<OH--OCO
                                                                             - 4<oS                                                             C<           '~e~t<1-OHOOO
                                                                                   es~e--4------o---..--..--..----o-I
                                  (000                                                                                0,            0             ePe1,N             <a m              M-- D -0
            -        ~~                                                       -      <N< N N~ N- N                        NN             (\     IN IN IN <NN N N N N CN S C                                        <
                 e0                  ,<'       <-         0 0
                                                          01Ht<            0<                                                                                               o<                              <
                                             0<-<
                                                     H           S    0<O0<H,~0                  <:C                                   o.-
                                                                                                                                               <HH
                                                                                                                                                    <     0     -   . <            . C>               HO
                                     <0d000                                          00cO                                   0<0                      .             -o<                                0<0
                                                           e     H-                                000C0--)                                        HO                                                       NO
        u                            p     a- me                 <<eo                      oeue.
                                                                                           m                         0       o~t5                               e
                                                                                                                                                ~o pe -a.-0000< ..              ovm       0 ou.8
                                             0<0 0<                                     0                  OO                  o<                                                                            HO)O 0
                                                                             V  0.                                                     <          G<
                                                      HZ H7                     H                        OH o                                                               <0
     <0b         o
                <N           PSoo  10      0JoOa
                                              : <I: :N) :-a       N:
                                                              i, 0V
                                                                         aoOP
                                                                           N S
                                                                           <)                                 8   .Oo          0    ND <C               N       N    Nw
                                                                                                                                                                             0 1
                                                                                                                                                                                 o0o
                                                                                                                                                                                 NC         o           e o
                                                                                    ----------
                                                                 -----------------------
           W-                               oN       0       to ON rZ No N3INmj = 0                                 C c o           to O ( (0c            1C o -        co (00               *4<4
                                             ON         N N NNC                       O                    ;INN N 'fN ) N NN                           N:.N               N N N             NrMVjCl'OP
         <    oz0.
                                     0
                                                                                                       < -m                ao           ~        ~ e              s          <
                                                                                                                                                                                    -~
                                                                                                                                                                                       o  -   )
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~- n      -f -oo--
     '7            -.--                                                                                             7
                                C- C- Ct)
                                            -N"
                                                   0 (0
                                                         N
                                                                 ..     ~      -~-     -'-          ..   ~            7t
                                                                                                                               "o -C~tCJr~
                                                                                                                             n> i -        0 L         0
                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                             i. I -
                                                                                                                                                                              ~    .0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0<7
                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            toWV
      i000    0 Ct0 C<  0 01 CD< C
                                     0 0                  z      P                                                             (9                 z          t.0 _coo cooc                    OH1O0 C H0
                     ,2 1M              1MM                                                      mli im1 1mi                             21       M           i i99~

   WO 2013/116144          PCT/US2013/023409
             0<
         8           8
V<
           <<
           N 14C1
       Ge I)CI  , 1
           , !
          C9      I8
                       100

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
                                                           8
           0
              00 0
                   S<
                   <
                                                                               -8         ow      <                                            OF-
                                                                                                                                               C)              C
                                     C 0C)F-
                                                                                                                              O                 ~
     eO            <                                                         0             <      <                       '>"000              O
                                                                            0
          0                                                                                         00
                            e<                     <                                        00
   0<                                CoC)
                                      D                            <00 0                  0F0<                                  F-                             0u<
              <                  60F000<4
                                     4o                                                                                                       00               000
       0
                                    SO-20                                         00      0<<00C0                       4   <000                0                  0  o
  eO     )              OF                           e  ~    0F-      0          4F-<0cC0<                        r        gs<0        5        Ocoo<                       e
                    ")
                                 <o~~<
                              oo<F60o0 F-                       Oo0oC
                                                                        u<        (90%(
                                                                                  <F-               000
                                                                                                      0      000000                                      )     o0ooO
                                                                                                                                                                0 o 0< (0F<-   o O <F0
     8F-s000F-806o<         0                              o0 0
                                                           0<             c8Y F- 0(                    0
                                                                                                                  6'5j85~o 4                      '0 0<  <0<800 F
        0<                  o0~o       00-20
                                     ooOo                     go8<                    o          ooG~0                   ~40-0-                    <0F-0           kF
                            0   sW    O F-<U                00
                                                                         0--0200
                                                                         < q.             30                                 F-F-
                                                                                                                                     <O               <         O e o< a>.
                                        <<        <
          88
          O/                6<Q :                    ID8                                                                              <F-<OO                    <  0
                        F-(
                        (<           0           0)C
  v'o-0L0                            0     o      <<oOF-<0050-00
                                       000<<0                            0 < (D(                                               F-
                       De O<           0 4
                                      &G       0   0D<O (D     G         G             -p     oR0 05o    0U <            0eU(D                         (
                                                                                                                                                             e      Q     e0
                                                                                        0
                 00-<00<4                        Co         o       0F-o<00                       00<C,                    eL                                       00
                             <                 e
                                         0a 00000       * e e                              -     0                            <
                                                                                                                          o <Os<~              OQe o
                   re-O             Go   090
                                             F .
                                                                4
                                                       -C 0<e F-~ F- C) o
                                                                         CO-
                                                                          0C00--<00 p) F-rOu                                                                e~op 9F       0 h
                                                                             b-'                    <        oOF-0                                     o0            Ot'
                       '-DF              <FU<                                              F0                                 00       0' 0Vo          b
                                                                                                                                                   0~~0F
     <            e    ~         ~          ~        C     r 6 C)          (D     O<<< UOGGe<Ne40                     0 ep <S <                      <0< <<( DO
                        <                0.0<Oe0                              -0          9~ , -3 <               e0       F      (0 90 < S-00-<
                                                                                                                                           < 0e OD
                                                                                                                                           seoOG                    <00 0 b '
                                                                                                                                                           06) <06 20
                    0<        -  Cr      O       0<- <0 FO U0   D< 08'-'          O   .-- I-Uot-, H :O
                                                                                                     -           0s       o         O*(-               0        <      4<
                                           0e0j        1o2 0'0 <F-0-                    0                                          e1        0'       000            0 (
                                                                            F-0F-             ;D  O                           6g 0                       DD    8   <  o   O..  <0
           o                 O    O      r-!oo3          O< G O)<                         O'"-'-       <0000                FO 0         C )        -(>C050<
                                0                                                                                     0                   0
         0'-'--"            o[-                               O                    < <-C     < O    0               -      F<O<                C-,    O      -      <Oio
                                                                                                     0<                              < <O<000            e 0           <
                                                                                  ~c1c                            00 0 OFfF-0n9                                                 ~
  :c               zC             N                                0-c                                                                 m
                                                                                          8 8R|8| 8                           0                                    E
              '4         cc      2c068                  8888
                                                                                 101

WO 2013/116144                                                                                                                         PCT/US2013/023409
                                        000
                                       L)0                                                        00                                  00
                                                        <
                                                      ~~88~C                 8                                           ~        .2<<<II<)
                                                                                                                                            L     <0<
            <   ~             vH<                                    <                   0<<-<
                                     <H~
                                              ~~1
                                               0 <            00               H 0
                                                                                         0o<oo                                 F0   0
                                                                                                                                                     0          0
     ,)U              00           0                 <<op                       :0        <<                                <H~                                 OH:
                                                  U<(*                    )006HH_
                                           J4 CD<- 0 0                                                                              0-   00 0        <~o
                                                   00U             (. 1'-          1         Q
                                                                                             OH           3      ~       ~        ~
                              ~~~~~                  < 00            <
                                                                    <(:0                                                0       0 <0
                                       OH 0)           0                       00              000             0)5,.*(D      -            0              oO        A
                         00~0
                                 0   0
                                                                                        ~1
                                                                                         <                                  0                      (D             0
          U)IO,              <0 A HOD             0 <~                                                                   00 '       !~       OH    00       0A
                         0H G<             0o 0L          0    '       0         0<             0<)                  H <              00
        0        8VD               uO                                                                 .   <
                                                                                                         0 0
                                                                                                              < 0<       IL                     U~
                                           00     p~ Uo                              H                     <O      a    O 0'H                           O       H
                                                                            O0000                       0                   b HD                                <
      0 -5      o0D           J         o         0                           H            H~        0        0       ~0           0*OOH0HCOO
       h0    ~ ~~ 1: r C          : ~K
                                     H     ~ rb?0      Z0
                                                          05
                                                                   0      i
                                                                                 05
                                                                                      00         S03O       0
                                                                                                                    O0co0
                                                                                                                          0 0
                                                                                                                                 <0         <O     0CDC00)
                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                        b       <0H                   ~~
          0
                                        0 (D24                           j               0                                                                      d 0 Ho
                O O3 0          o                                                                  .(D~<>
                                                                                     88(5~~5~t
                                                                                   -
  0o <         ~       C        0       HF          <         <       0                                                                       <          ~
                                             H~~~~                          00
                                                                            Z00A(J00
                                                        H   0    0   .~~e                                          000 0()0CH F-00
                                       010 (D          <         o                   0     <                                                  HD <H<            C
    0   H          *      0 <           HH10                            O                    6            0        00         <          0 HO0,0
       AU        ( 000    0         0) U k HU0                                                                                      (D 0 0        O
                                                                                     H<<00H0<                  000H       <0P          0O0000I10I
         to        0      0)0                    0   *0       N~c        0o  w IN0                      ON    C00
                                                                                                              ID**    :C  S    CO     CDC'   -0  0 0:H ) N)   0   0 r
                                                                                                                                                                      zCO
                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                          0 ~ CO
                   co                                 N
                                                                                                                   u.
                                                                                           - J< . Cr
                                                               ...  ..*...u
                                        C0      CL       <L                                       1L                C                            NL U)C)C)
                                                                              102

WO 2013/116144     PCT/US2013/023409
     0
     0
     0
     0
  <0
  00
  ~
  0 <
  o  i.
  00
  0<
  0 (i~
  00
  0 ~(
  o
  ~0.
  0 0
  0
  "~ '~.
  0
  0 ~
  (~ I-
  0 ~
  0<
  0
  0 0
  00~
  00
               103

 WO 2013/116144                                                               PCT/US2013/023409
        What is claimed is:
1. A method of predicting a likelihood of a clinical outcome for a patient with prostate
cancer, comprising:
determining a level of one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, in a
biological sample containing cancer cells obtained from said patient, wherein the one or more
RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, is selected from BINI, IGF1, C7, GSN,
DES, TGFBhl. TPM2, VCL, FLNC, ITGA7, COL6AI, PPPIR12A, GSTMI. GSTM2,
PAGE4, PPAP2B, SRL)5A2, PRKCA, IGFBP6, GPM6B, OLFML3. HLF, CYP3A5, KRT15,
KR'5, LAMB3, SDCi, DUSPI, EGFRI, FOS, JUN, EGR3, GADD45B, ZFP36, FAM13C,
KLK2, ASPN, SFRP4, BGN, THBS2, INFIBA, COLI A1, COL3Al, COL IA2, SPARC,
COL8A], COL4AI, FNI, FAP, COL5A2, CDC20, TPX2, UBE2T, MYBL2, and CDKN2C;
assigning the one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, to one or more
gene groups selected from a cellular organization gene group, basal epithelia gene group, a
stress response gene group, an androgen gene group, a stromal response gene group, and a
proliferation gene group;
calculating a quantitative score for the patient by weighting the level of one or more RNA
transcripts, or an expression product thereof, by their contribution to a clinical outcome; and
predicting a likelihood of a clinical outcome for the patient based on the quantitative score.
2.   The method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining a level of at least one RNA transcript, or an expression product thereof, in the
biological sample, wherein the at least one RNA transcript, or an expression product thereof,
is selected from STAT5B, NFAT5, AZGPI, ANPEP, IGFBP2, SLC22A3, ERG, AR,
SRD5A2, GSTMI, and GSTM2; and
weighting the level of the at least one RNA transcript, or an expression product thereof, by its
contribution to the clinical outcome to calculate the quantitative score.
3. The method of claim I or 2, wherein an increase in the quantitative score correlates with
an increased likelihood of a negative clinical outcome.
4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the clinical outcome is upgrading of
prostate cancer,
5. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the clinical outcome is upstaging of
prostate cancer.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the clinical outcome is recurrence of
prostate cancer.
                                                104

 WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the level of at least three RNA transcripts,
or their expression products, from the stromal response gene group are determined, and
wherein the stromal response gene group comprises ASPN, BGN, COLI Al, SPARC, FN],
COL3AI, COLA1, INHBA, THBS2, and SFRP4.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7. wherein the level of at least one RNA transcript, or
its expression product, from the androgen gene group is determined, and wherein the
androgen gene group comprises FAM 13C, KLK2, AZGP1, and SRD5A2.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, further comprising determining the level of at least
three RNA transcripts, or their expression products, from the cellular organization gene
group, wherein the cellular organization gene group comprises FLNC, GSN, GSTM2,
IGFBP6, PPAP2B, PPPIRI2A, BIN1, VCL, GF1, TPM2, C7, and GSTMI.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, further comprising determining the level of at least
one RNA transcript, or its expression product, from the proliferation gene group, wherein the
proliferation gene group comprises TPX2, CDC20, and MYBL2,
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the level of any one of the gene
combinations shown in Table 4 are determined.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the quantitative score is calculated based
on any one of the algorithms shown in Table 4.
13. The method of claim I or 2, wherein the RNA transcripts, or their expression products,
of BGN, COLIAI, SFRP4, FLNC, GSN, TPM2, FAM13C, and KLK2 are assigned to the
following gene groups:
  a) strornal response gene group: BGN, COL IA1, and SFRP4
  b) cellular organization gene group: FLNC, GSN, and TPM2 and
  c) androgen gene group: FAM13C and KLK2; and
wherein the level of the RNA transcripts, or their expression products, of at least one of a)
c) are determined.
 14, The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the level of the one or more RNA
transcripts, or an expression product thereof, is normalized relative to the expression level of
one or more reference genes,
 15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the clinical outcome is selected frorn
adverse pathology, non-organ-confined disease, high-grade disease, and high-grade or non
organ-confined disease.
 16. A method of predicting a likelihood of a clinical outcome for a patient with prostate
cancer, comprising:
                                               105

 WO 2013/116144                                                              PCT/US2013/023409
        determining a level of one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof
in a biological sample containing cancer cells obtained from said patient, wherein the one or
more RNA transcripts, or an expression product thereof, is selected from BGN, COLI Al,
SFRP4, FLNC, GSN, GSTM2, TPM2, AZGPI, KLK2, FAMI3CI, SRD5A2, and TPX2,
        normalizing the level of the one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product
thereof, to obtain a normalized expression level of the one or more RNA transcripts, or an
expression product thereof,
        comparing the normalized expression level to gene expression data in reference
prostate cancer samples, and
        predicting the likelihood of one or more of adverse pathology, non-organ-confined
disease, high-grade disease, or high-grade or non-organ-confined disease in the patient based
on the normalized expression level of the one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression
product thereof,
        wherein increased normalized expression levels of BGN, COLIAI, SFRP4, and
TPX2 correlate with an increased likelihood of adverse pathology, non-organ-confined
disease, high-grade disease, or high-grade or non-organ confined disease, and
        wherein increased normalized expression levels of FLNC, GSN, GSTM2, TPM2,
AZGPI, KLK2, FAM1 3C 1, and SRD5A2 correlate with a decreased likelihood of adverse
pathology, non-organ-confined disease, high-grade disease, or high-grade or non-organ
confined disease.
 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising assigning the one or more RNA transcripts,
or an expression product thereof, to one or more gene groups selected from a cellular
organization gene groupan androgen gene group, a stromal response gene group, and a
proliferation gene group;
         calculating one or more quantitative scores for the patient by weighting the
normalized expression level of one or more RNA transcripts, or an expression product
thereof, by their contribution to a clinical outcome; and
         predicting the likelihood of one or more of adverse pathology, non-organ-confined
disease, high-grade disease, or high-grade or non-organ-confined disease for the patient based
on the one or more quantitative scores;
  wherein the quantitative score is selected from a stromal response group score, cellular
organization group score, androgen group score, proliferation group score, and recurrence
 score;
                                                 106

 WO 2013/116144                                                            PCT/US2013/023409
  wherein the stromal response group score comprises the normalized expression levels of
BGN, COLIAI, and SFRP4; the cellular organization group score comprises the normalized
expression levels of FLNC, GSN, TPM2, and CSTM2; the androgen group score comprises
the normalized expression levels of FAM13C, LK2, AZGPi, and SRD5A2; the proliferation
group score comprises the normalized expression level of TPX2; and the recurrence score
comprises the stromal response group score, cellular organization group score, androgen
group score, and proliferation group score; and
        wherein an increased stromal response group score, proliferation group score, and
recurrence score correlate with an increased likelihood of adverse pathology, non-organ
confined disease, high-grade disease, or high-grade or non-organ confined disease, and an
increased cellular organization group score and androgen group score correlate with a
decreased likelihood of adverse pathology, non-organ-confined disease, high-grade disease,
or high-grade or non-organ confined disease.
18. The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the biological sample is a tissue sample.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the tissue sample is fixed, paraffin-embedded, or fresh,
or frozen.
20. The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein the level of one or more RNA transcripts
is determined by quantitative RT-PCR.
21. The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein the level of the expression product is
determined by immunohistochemistry or proteomics techniques.
22. The method of any one of claims 1-21, further comprising creating a report summarizing
the prediction.
23, The method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein the one or more RNA transcripts, or an
expression product thereof, may be substituted with a co-expressed gene listed in Tables 8
 11,
24. The method of any one of claims 1-23, wherein the levels of the RNA transcripts, or
expression products thereof, of BGN, COL1Al, SFRP4, FLNC, GSN, GSTM2,. TPM2,
AZGPI, KLK2, FAM1CI, SRD5A2, and TPX2, are determined.
                                              107

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Genomic Health, Inc.
                      Shak, Steve
                      Crager, Michael
                      Lee, Mark
                      Novotny, William
                      Maddala, Tara
                      Cherbavaz, Diana
                      Pelham, Robert
                      Millward, Carl L.
<removed-apn>
                      Knezevic, Dejan
              <120>   GENE EXPRESSION PROFILE ALGORITHM AND TEST FOR DETERMINING
                      PROGNOSIS OF PROSTATE CANCER
              <130>   GHI<U+2701>052 PCT
              <150>   61/593,106
              <151>   2012<U+2701>01<U+2701>31
              <150>   61/672,679
              <151>   2012<U+2701>07<U+2701>17
              <150>   61/713,734
              <151>   2012<U+2701>10<U+2701>15
              <160>   344
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 1
              cacgtctgtc cctctctgct                                                20
              <210>   2
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 2
              gaccgtggct caactttgta t                                              21
                                                   Page 1

<removed-date>
              <210>     3
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 3
<removed-apn>
              tctctgtagg gcccagctct cagg                                          24
              <210>     4
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 4
              cacgtctgtc cctctctgct ttctctgtag ggcccagctc tcaggaatac aaagttgagc   60
              cacggtc                                                             67
              <210>     5
              <211>     22
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 5
              ccaccttgga ccaaagtaaa gc                                            22
              <210>     6
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 6
              tctcagcgtc acctggtagg a                                             21
              <210>     7
                                                  Page 2

              <211>   22
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 7
              ctccccaaca cgctgaaacc cg                                            22
<removed-apn>
              <210>   8
              <211>   83
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 8
              ccaccttgga ccaaagtaaa gcgtggaatc gttaccgcct ccccaacacg ctgaaacccg   60
              attcctaccg ggtgacgctg aga                                           83
              <210>   9
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 9
              cgacttcacc gcacctgat                                                19
              <210>   10
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 10
              tgacacaagt gggactggga ta                                            22
              <210>   11
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 3

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 11
              accatgccgc cagggtacca ca                                            22
              <210>   12
              <211>   77
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 12
              cgacttcacc gcacctgatg tgtggtaccc tggcggcatg gtgagcagag tgccctatcc   60
              cagtcccact tgtgtca                                                  77
              <210>   13
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 13
              cagtagagat ccccgcaact                                               20
              <210>   14
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 14
              acaagcacat ggctatggaa                                               20
              <210>   15
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 4

<removed-date>
              <400> 15
              cttgtccttg ggtcaccctg ca                                            22
              <210>   16
              <211>   64
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 16
              cagtagagat ccccgcaact cgcttgtcct tgggtcaccc tgcattccat agccatgtgc   60
              ttgt                                                                64
              <210>   17
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 17
              cattgccact tcaactctaa                                               20
              <210>   18
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 18
              attgttagtg tccaggctct                                               20
              <210>   19
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 19
              tatccctttg gaagaccttg cttg                                          24
                                                  Page 5

<removed-date>
              <210>   20
              <211>   81
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 20
<removed-apn>
              cattgccact tcaactctaa ggaatatttt tgagatatcc ctttggaaga ccttgcttgg   60
              aagagcctgg acactaacaa t                                             81
              <210>   21
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 21
              ccgctttcgc tacagcat                                                 18
              <210>   22
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 22
              tgggagtatc ggatgtagct g                                             21
              <210>   23
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 23
              tccagcctgt ctccagtagg ccac                                          24
              <210>   24
                                                  Page 6

              <211>    66
<removed-date>
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 24
              ccgctttcgc tacagcatgg tggcctactg gagacaggct ggactcagct acatccgata   60
              ctccca                                                              66
<removed-apn>
              <210>    25
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 25
              gaggccagct aggaagcaa                                                19
              <210>    26
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 26
              caggaagggc agctactgg                                                19
              <210>    27
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 27
              tctgagatcc cacattgcct ccaa                                          24
              <210>    28
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 7

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 28
              gaggccagct aggaagcaag ggttggaggc aatgtgggat ctcagaccca gtagctgccc   60
              ttcctg                                                              66
              <210>    29
<removed-apn>
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 29
              gagctccgca aggatgac                                                 18
              <210>    30
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 30
              cttgttgttc accaggacga                                               20
              <210>    31
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 31
              caagggtctc cagcacctct acgc                                          24
              <210>    32
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 8

<removed-date>
              <400> 32
              gagctccgca aggatgactt caagggtctc cagcacctct acgccctcgt cctggtgaac   60
              aacaag                                                              66
              <210>    33
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 33
              cctgcaaaag ggaacaagag                                               20
              <210>    34
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 34
              cgtggttgac tctgatctcg                                               20
              <210>    35
              <211>    21
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 35
              cttcgcctcc agatggctcc c                                             21
              <210>    36
              <211>    76
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 36
              cctgcaaaag ggaacaagag cccttcgcct ccagatggct cccctgccgc cacccccgag   60
                                                  Page 9

<removed-date>
              atcagagtca accacg                                                   76
              <210>    37
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 37
              gtgcagacct tggttcacct                                               20
              <210>    38
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 38
              cttagttggc gcacagcac                                                19
              <210>    39
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 39
              tgaaccccga gtatgtcccc aaac                                          24
              <210>    40
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 40
              gtgcagacct tggttcacct tatgaacccc gagtatgtcc ccaaaccgtg ctgtgcgcca   60
              actaag                                                              66
                                                  Page 10

<removed-date>
              <210>   41
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 41
              atgtctgagt gtgaggcgg                                                19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   42
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 42
              aggccttatg ctggtgacag                                               20
              <210>   43
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 43
              atgctctgcc ctctgcatct caga                                          24
              <210>   44
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 44
              atgtctgagt gtgaggcggg cgctctgaga tgcagagggc agagcatctc tgtcaccagc   60
              ataaggcct                                                           69
              <210>   45
              <211>   20
                                                  Page 11

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 45
              ccaccaccat ccttaccatc                                               20
              <210>   46
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 46
              gatccactgc cctgatcg                                                 18
              <210>   47
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 47
              tcttcacctg ctcgggaatc tgtg                                          24
              <210>   48
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 48
              ccaccaccat ccttaccatc atcacagatt cccgagcagg tgaagaaggc tcgatcaggg   60
              cagtggatc                                                           69
              <210>   49
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 12

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 49
              ccaaaggatg cgatacacag                                               20
              <210>   50
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 50
              ggatgacttg ggaatcatgt c                                             21
              <210>   51
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 51
              ccactgtgca gccttatttc tccaatg                                       27
              <210>   52
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 52
              ccaaaggatg cgatacacag accactgtgc agccttattt ctccaatgga catgattccc   60
              aagtcatcc                                                           69
              <210>   53
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 13

              <400> 53
<removed-date>
              ggcaccactg cttatgaagg                                               20
              <210>     54
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 54
              gatgctcatg gtgaatgagg                                               20
              <210>     55
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 55
              actggaaccc agaagcacac cctc                                          24
              <210>     56
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 56
              ggcaccactg cttatgaagg aaactggaac ccagaagcac accctcccct cattcaccat   60
              gagcatc                                                             67
              <210>     57
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 57
              agtgacctgc actcgctgct                                               20
                                                  Page 14

<removed-date>
              <210>   58
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 58
              ggcttccttg gctttgcgct                                               20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   59
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 59
              ccaatgcacc ccctgcgcgc tggc                                          24
              <210>   60
              <211>   84
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 60
              agtgacctgc actcgctgct tcagctggat gcacccatcc ccaatgcacc ccctgcgcgc   60
              tggcagcgca aagccaagga agcc                                          84
              <210>   61
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 61
              tgaagggaac ctgcccttgc a                                             21
              <210>   62
              <211>   23
                                                  Page 15

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 62
              tgtgcttcac caggaactcc acc                                           23
              <210>   63
<removed-apn>
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 63
              tggctgccaa agaaggccac ctccgggt                                      28
              <210>   64
              <211>   74
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 64
              tgaagggaac ctgcccttgc acttggctgc caaagaaggc cacctccggg tggtggagtt   60
              cctggtgaag caca                                                     74
              <210>   65
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 65
              accgtatgga cagccacag                                                19
              <210>   66
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 16

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 66
              tgactacagg atcagcgctt c                                             21
              <210>     67
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 67
              tctcacatgc tgtacccaaa gcca                                          24
              <210>     68
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 68
              accgtatgga cagccacagc ctggctttgg gtacagcatg tgagatgaag cgctgatcct   60
              gtagtca                                                             67
              <210>     69
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 69
              gtggccatcc agctgacc                                                 18
              <210>     70
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 17

              <400> 70
<removed-date>
              cagtggtagg tgatgttctg gga                                           23
              <210>   71
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 71
              tcctgcgcct gatgtccacc g                                             21
              <210>   72
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 72
              gtggccatcc agctgacctt cctgcgcctg atgtccaccg aggcctccca gaacatcacc   60
              taccactg                                                            68
              <210>   73
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 73
              cagccaagaa ctggtatagg agct                                          24
              <210>   74
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 74
              aaactggctg ccagcattg                                                19
                                                  Page 18

<removed-date>
              <210>   75
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 75
              tctcctagcc agacgtgttt cttgtccttg                                    30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   76
              <211>   80
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 76
              cagccaagaa ctggtatagg agctccaagg acaagaaaca cgtctggcta ggagaaacta   60
              tcaatgctgg cagccagttt                                               80
              <210>   77
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 77
              ggaggttctg gacctgctg                                                19
              <210>   78
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 78
              accaggactg ccacgttc                                                 18
              <210>   79
              <211>   24
                                                  Page 19

              <212>    DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 79
              ctcctggtcc ccaaggtgtc aaag                                          24
              <210>    80
<removed-apn>
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 80
              ggaggttctg gacctgctgg tcctcctggt ccccaaggtg tcaaaggtga acgtggcagt   60
              cctggt                                                              66
              <210>    81
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 81
              acaaaggcct cccaggat                                                 18
              <210>    82
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 82
              gagtcccagg aagacctgct                                               20
              <210>    83
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 20

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 83
              ctcctttgac accagggatg ccat                                          24
              <210>    84
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 84
              acaaaggcct cccaggattg gatggcatcc ctggtgtcaa aggagaagca ggtcttcctg   60
              ggactc                                                              66
              <210>    85
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 85
              ggtcgaggaa cccaaggt                                                 18
              <210>    86
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 86
              gcctggaggt ccaactctg                                                19
              <210>    87
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 21

              <400> 87
<removed-date>
              ccaggaaatc ctgtagcacc aggc                                          24
              <210>   88
              <211>   72
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 88
              ggtcgaggaa cccaaggtcc gcctggtgct acaggatttc ctggttctgc gggcagagtt   60
              ggacctccag gc                                                       72
              <210>   89
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 89
              ggagaccctg gtgaagctg                                                19
              <210>   90
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 90
              tctccaggga caccaacg                                                 18
              <210>   91
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 91
              cttctcttcc ctgatcaccc tgcg                                          24
                                                  Page 22

<removed-date>
              <210>   92
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 92
              ggagaccctg gtgaagctgg cccgcagggt gatcagggaa gagaaggccc cgttggtgtc   60
<removed-apn>
              cctggaga                                                            68
              <210>   93
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 93
              tggtgttcca gggcttct                                                 18
              <210>   94
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 94
              ccctgtaaac cctgatccc                                                19
              <210>   95
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 95
              cctaagggag agccaggaat ccca                                          24
              <210>   96
              <211>   66
                                                  Page 23

              <212>    DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 96
              tggtgttcca gggcttctcg gacctaaggg agagccagga atcccagggg atcagggttt   60
              acaggg                                                              66
<removed-apn>
              <210>    97
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 97
              tgcagcggct gattgaca                                                 18
              <210>    98
              <211>    25
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 98
              caactgttcc tggtctacaa actca                                         25
              <210>    99
              <211>    28
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 99
              tcagatggag acctcgtgcc aaattaca                                      28
              <210>    100
              <211>    74
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 24

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 100
              tgcagcggct gattgacagt cagatggaga cctcgtgcca aattacattt gagtttgtag   60
              accaggaaca gttg                                                     74
              <210>   101
              <211>   18
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 101
              acccaagacc ctgcctct                                                 18
              <210>   102
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 102
              gcaggggtgg agtgatgt                                                 18
              <210>   103
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 103
              ccacccttct ccagggaccc ttag                                          24
              <210>   104
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 25

              <400> 104
<removed-date>
              acccaagacc ctgcctcttc cactccaccc ttctccaggg acccttagat cacatcactc   60
              cacccctgc                                                           69
              <210>   105
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 105
              tcattgccca gtatggagat g                                             21
              <210>   106
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 106
              gacaggcttg cctttctctg                                               20
              <210>   107
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 107
              tcccgcctca agtttctcac caat                                          24
              <210>   108
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 108
              tcattgccca gtatggagat gtattggtga gaaacttgag gcgggaagca gagaaaggca   60
                                                  Page 26

              agcctgtc                                                            68
<removed-date>
              <210>    109
              <211>    18
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 109
              acttctcact ggccgacg                                                 18
              <210>    110
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 110
              gctccacctt ctcgttggt                                                19
              <210>    111
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 111
              tgaaccagga gtttctgacc acgc                                          24
              <210>    112
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 112
              acttctcact ggccgacgcg gtgaaccagg agtttctgac cacgcgcacc aacgagaagg   60
              tggagc                                                              66
                                                  Page 27

              <210>   113
<removed-date>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 113
              gtcctgggat cgggaagt                                                 18
<removed-apn>
              <210>   114
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 114
              gtactcccac cgggatacag                                               20
              <210>   115
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 115
              cggctattcc acacttgaac acgc                                          24
              <210>   116
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 116
              gtcctgggat cgggaagtgg cgtgttcaag tgtggaatag ccgtggcgcc tgtatcccgg   60
              tgggagtac                                                           69
              <210>   117
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 28

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 117
              agacatcagc tcctggttca                                               20
              <210>   118
              <211>   20
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 118
              gacaaacacc cttcctccag                                               20
              <210>   119
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 119
              cgaggccatt gacttcatag actcca                                        26
              <210>   120
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 120
              agacatcagc tcctggttca acgaggccat tgacttcata gactccatca agaatgctgg   60
              aggaagggtg tttgtc                                                   76
              <210>   121
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 29

              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-date>
              <400> 121
              gtccccgctg cagatctct                                                19
              <210>   122
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 122
              ctccagctta gggtagttgt ccat                                          24
              <210>   123
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 123
              cggatccttt cctcactcgc cca                                           23
              <210>   124
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 124
              gtccccgctg cagatctctg acccgttcgg atcctttcct cactcgccca ccatggacaa   60
              ctaccctaag ctggag                                                   76
              <210>   125
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400>   125
                                                  Page 30

              ccatgtggat gaatgaggtg                                               20
<removed-date>
              <210>   126
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 126
              tgcctgagaa gaggtgaggt                                               20
              <210>   127
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 127
              acccagtctc accttctccc cacc                                          24
              <210>   128
              <211>   78
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 128
              ccatgtggat gaatgaggtg tctcctttcc atacccagtc tcaccttctc cccaccctac   60
              ctcacctctt ctcaggca                                                 78
              <210>   129
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 129
              ccaacactag gctcccca                                                 18
                                                  Page 31

              <210>   130
<removed-date>
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 130
              cctccgccag gtctttagt                                                19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   131
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 131
              agccatatgc cttctcatct gggc                                          24
              <210>   132
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 132
              ccaacactag gctccccacc agccatatgc cttctcatct gggcacttac tactaaagac   60
              ctggcggagg                                                          70
              <210>   133
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 133
              aaggagcaaa ccatccagg                                                19
              <210>   134
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 32

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 134
              gcagggtttc attgagcac                                                19
              <210>   135
              <211>   24
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 135
              cccgggctca acatcactac ctgt                                          24
              <210>   136
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 136
              aaggagcaaa ccatccaggt gcccgggctc aacatcacta cctgtcatga tgtgctcaat   60
              gaaaccctgc                                                          70
              <210>   137
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 137
              ttctgcccag gccttcccac                                               20
              <210>   138
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 33

              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-date>
              <400> 138
              aggagctggg gtgtacggag a                                             21
              <210>   139
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 139
              tctccgaggc tccccagggc cccg                                          24
              <210>   140
              <211>   73
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 140
              ttctgcccag gccttcccac caggaatctc cgaggctccc cagggccccg cttctccgta   60
              caccccagct cct                                                      73
              <210>   141
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 141
              atcttcaaag cggagagcg                                                19
              <210>   142
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400>   142
                                                  Page 34

              gctggatacc acatgctctg                                               20
<removed-date>
              <210>    143
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 143
              tcctgacttt ctccgtggct cctc                                          24
              <210>    144
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 144
              atcttcaaag cggagagcgg gaggagccac ggagaaagtc aggagacaga gcatgtggta   60
              tccagc                                                              66
              <210>    145
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 145
              gttggctcac gtgggttac                                                19
              <210>    146
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 146
              gacaggaccg aaacattctg                                               20
                                                  Page 35

              <210>   147
<removed-date>
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 147
              agccactgca aacatactcg ttcatca                                       27
<removed-apn>
              <210>   148
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 148
              gttggctcac gtgggttact gatgaacgag tatgtttgca gtggctaaaa agagtccaga   60
              atgtttcggt cctgtc                                                   76
              <210>   149
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 149
              caggacaatg gtgatggct                                                19
              <210>   150
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 150
              tgatggtgta ctcgccagg                                                19
              <210>   151
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 36

              <213>     Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 151
              atgtgctgtc agctacctgc ccac                                          24
              <210>     152
              <211>     67
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 152
              caggacaatg gtgatggctc atgtgctgtc agctacctgc ccacggagcc tggcgagtac   60
              accatca                                                             67
              <210>     153
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 153
              ggaagtgaca gacgtgaagg t                                             21
              <210>     154
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 154
              acacggtagc cggtcact                                                 18
              <210>     155
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 37

              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-date>
              <400> 155
              actctcaggc ggtgtccaca tgat                                          24
              <210>   156
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 156
              ggaagtgaca gacgtgaagg tcaccatcat gtggacaccg cctgagagtg cagtgaccgg   60
              ctaccgtgt                                                           69
              <210>   157
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 157
              cgagcccttt gatgacttcc t                                             21
              <210>   158
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 158
              ggagcgggct gtctcaga                                                 18
              <210>   159
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400>   159
                                                  Page 38

              tcccagcatc atccaggccc ag                                            22
<removed-date>
              <210>     160
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 160
              cgagcccttt gatgacttcc tgttcccagc atcatccagg cccagtggct ctgagacagc   60
              ccgctcc                                                             67
              <210>     161
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 161
              accctcgaca agaccacact                                               20
              <210>     162
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 162
              tgggagttca tgggtacaga                                               20
              <210>     163
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 163
              tgggagttca tgggtacaga                                               20
                                                  Page 39

              <210>   164
<removed-date>
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 164
              accctcgaca agaccacact ttgggacttg ggagctgggg ctgaagttgc tctgtaccca   60
<removed-apn>
              tgaactccca                                                          70
              <210>   165
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 165
              atgtgcttgg agtggcct                                                 18
              <210>   166
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 166
              tgtagaacat aaacacgggc a                                             21
              <210>   167
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 167
              cgctgagaaa ccaaacacac ccag                                          24
              <210>   168
              <211>   66
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 40

              <213>    Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 168
              atgtgcttgg agtggcctgg ctgggtgtgt ttggtttctc agcggtgccc gtgtttatgt   60
              tctaca                                                              66
<removed-apn>
              <210>    169
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 169
              agtacaagca ggctgccaag                                               20
              <210>    170
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 170
              gcagctcagg gaagtcaca                                                19
              <210>    171
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 171
              cctcctgctg gcttcctttg atca                                          24
              <210>    172
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 41

              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-date>
              <400> 172
              agtacaagca ggctgccaag tgcctcctgc tggcttcctt tgatcactgt gacttccctg   60
              agctgc                                                              66
              <210>    173
              <211>    22
              <212>    DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 173
              cttctgctaa gcggtacatc ga                                            22
              <210>    174
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 174
              ggctcaaagc cttgcttcac                                               20
              <210>    175
              <211>    21
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 175
              acccagccaa tcgggatcgg c                                             21
              <210>    176
              <211>    85
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400>    176
                                                  Page 42

              cttctgctaa gcggtacatc gagacggacc cagccaatcg ggatcggcgg acgcccatca   60
<removed-date>
              ccgtggtgaa gcaaggcttt gagcc                                         85
              <210>   177
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 177
              aagctatgag gaaaagaagt acacgat                                       27
              <210>   178
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 178
              ggcccagctt gaatttttca                                               20
              <210>   179
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 179
              tcagccactg gcttctgtca taatcaggag                                    30
              <210>   180
              <211>   86
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 180
              aagctatgag gaaaagaagt acacgatggg ggacgctcct gattatgaca gaagccagtg   60
              gctgaatgaa aaattcaagc tgggcc                                        86
                                                  Page 43

<removed-date>
              <210>   181
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 181
<removed-apn>
              ctgcaggcac tccctgaaat                                               20
              <210>   182
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 182
              ccaagaaacc atggctgctt                                               20
              <210>   183
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 183
              ctgaagctct actcacagtt tctggg                                        26
              <210>   184
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 184
              ctgcaggcac tccctgaaat gctgaagctc tactcacagt ttctggggaa gcagccatgg   60
              tttcttgg                                                            68
              <210>   185
                                                  Page 44

              <211>   19
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 185
              caccctgcag gtgtctgag                                                19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   186
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 186
              ggtacctagg agcagaaggt ga                                            22
              <210>   187
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 187
              taagtgatct gccctccagg tggc                                          24
              <210>   188
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 188
              caccctgcag gtgtctgaga ctaagtgatc tgccctccag gtggcgatca ccttctgctc   60
              ctaggtacc                                                           69
              <210>   189
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 45

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 189
              tccggagctg tgatctaagg a                                             21
              <210>   190
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 190
              cggacagagc gagctgactt                                               20
              <210>   191
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 191
              tgtattgcgc acccctcaag cctg                                          24
              <210>   192
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 192
              tccggagctg tgatctaagg aggctggaga tgtattgcgc acccctcaag cctgccaagt   60
              cagctcgctc tgtccg                                                   76
              <210>   193
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 46

<removed-date>
              <400> 193
              gtggacagca ccatgaaca                                                19
              <210>   194
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 194
              ccttcatacc cgacttgagg                                               20
              <210>   195
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 195
              cttccggcca gcactgcctc                                               20
              <210>   196
              <211>   73
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 196
              gtggacagca ccatgaacat gttgggcggg ggaggcagtg ctggccggaa gcccctcaag   60
              tcgggtatga agg                                                      73
              <210>   197
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 197
              tgaaccgcag agaccaacag                                               20
                                                  Page 47

<removed-date>
              <210>   198
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 198
<removed-apn>
              gtcttggaca cccgcagaat                                               20
              <210>   199
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 199
              atccaggcac ctctaccacg ccctc                                         25
              <210>   200
              <211>   77
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 200
              tgaaccgcag agaccaacag aggaatccag gcacctctac cacgccctcc cagcccaatt   60
              ctgcgggtgt ccaagac                                                  77
              <210>   201
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 201
              ggcctaatgt tccagatcct                                               20
              <210>   202
                                                  Page 48

              <211>   20
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 202
              aaaattgtgc cttggaggag                                               20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   203
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 203
              catattgccc agtggtcacc tcaca                                         25
              <210>   204
              <211>   74
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 204
              ggcctaatgt tccagatcct tcaaagagtc atattgccca gtggtcacct cacactcctc   60
              caaggcacaa tttt                                                     74
              <210>   205
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 205
              gtgcccgagc catatagca                                                19
              <210>   206
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 49

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 206
              cggtagtggt tgatgactgt tga                                           23
              <210>   207
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 207
              acgtccgggt cctcactgtc cttcc                                         25
              <210>   208
              <211>   72
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 208
              gtgcccgagc catatagcag gcacgtccgg gtcctcactg tccttccact caacagtcat   60
              caaccactac cg                                                       72
              <210>   209
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 209
              gatatgattg gtcgctgctt tg                                            22
              <210>   210
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 50

<removed-date>
              <400> 210
              agaacttcca ttccccacca t                                             21
              <210>   211
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 211
              cagccaggac ctggccatcc g                                             21
              <210>   212
              <211>   79
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 212
              gatatgattg gtcgctgctt tgtgctcagc caggacctgg ccatccggga tgagttggat   60
              ggtggggaat ggaagttct                                                79
              <210>   213
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 213
              gactgcaaag atggaaacga                                               20
              <210>   214
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 214
              tagccataag gtccgctctc                                               20
                                                  Page 51

<removed-date>
              <210>   215
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 215
<removed-apn>
              ctatgacgat gccctcaacg cctc                                          24
              <210>   216
              <211>   81
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 216
              gactgcaaag atggaaacga ccttctatga cgatgccctc aacgcctcgt tcctcccgtc   60
              cgagagcgga ccttatggct a                                             81
              <210>   217
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 217
              agtctcggat tgtgggagg                                                19
              <210>   218
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 218
              tgtacacagc cacctgcc                                                 18
              <210>   219
                                                  Page 52

              <211>    24
<removed-date>
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 219
              ttgggaatgc ttctcacact ccca                                          24
<removed-apn>
              <210>    220
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 220
              agtctcggat tgtgggaggc tgggagtgtg agaagcattc ccaaccctgg caggtggctg   60
              tgtaca                                                              66
              <210>    221
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 221
              gcctggttct tcagcaagac                                               20
              <210>    222
              <211>    21
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 222
              cttgctggtc tggatcattt c                                             21
              <210>    223
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 53

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 223
              tgaacaaaga ggtggcctcc aaca                                          24
              <210>   224
              <211>   75
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 224
              gcctggttct tcagcaagac tgaggagctg aacaaagagg tggcctccaa cacagaaatg   60
              atccagacca gcaag                                                    75
              <210>   225
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 225
              tcagtggaga aggagttgga                                               20
              <210>   226
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 226
              tgccatatcc agaggaaaca                                               20
              <210>   227
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 54

<removed-date>
              <400> 227
              ccagtcaaca tctctgttgt cacaagca                                      28
              <210>   228
              <211>   69
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 228
              tcagtggaga aggagttgga ccagtcaaca tctctgttgt cacaagcagt gtttcctctg   60
              gatatggca                                                           69
              <210>   229
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 229
              actgaccaag cctgagacct                                               20
              <210>   230
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 230
              gtcacacttg cagcatttca                                               20
              <210>   231
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 231
              ccactcgcca tactgggtgc agt                                           23
                                                  Page 55

<removed-date>
              <210>     232
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 232
<removed-apn>
              actgaccaag cctgagacct actgcaccca gtatggcgag tggcagatga aatgctgcaa   60
              gtgtgac                                                             67
              <210>     233
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 233
              agcggaaaat ggcagacaat                                               20
              <210>     234
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 234
              cttgagggtt tgggtttcca                                               20
              <210>     235
              <211>     25
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 235
              acccagataa cgcatcatgg agcga                                         25
              <210>     236
                                                  Page 56

              <211>   69
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 236
              agcggaaaat ggcagacaat ttttcgctcc atgatgcgtt atctgggtct ggaaacccaa   60
              accctcaag                                                           69
<removed-apn>
              <210>   237
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 237
              cctggaggct gcaacatacc                                               20
              <210>   238
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 238
              tacaatggct ttggaggata gca                                           23
              <210>   239
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 239
              atcctcctga agcccttttc gcagc                                         25
              <210>   240
              <211>   90
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 57

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 240
              cctggaggct gcaacatacc tcaatcctgt cccaggccgg atcctcctga agcccttttc   60
              gcagcactgc tatcctccaa agccattgta                                    90
              <210>   241
<removed-apn>
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 241
              gccgagatcg ccaagatg                                                 18
              <210>   242
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 242
              cttttgatgg tagagttcca gtgattc                                       27
              <210>   243
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 243
              cagcattgtc tgtcctccct ggca                                          24
              <210>   244
              <211>   74
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 58

<removed-date>
              <400> 244
              gccgagatcg ccaagatgtt gccagggagg acagacaatg ctgtgaagaa tcactggaac   60
              tctaccatca aaag                                                     74
              <210>   245
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 245
              ctgaacccct ctcctggtc                                                19
              <210>   246
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 246
              aggaaacgat ggcgaggt                                                 18
              <210>   247
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 247
              cgagaatcag tccccgtgga gttc                                          24
              <210>   248
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 248
              ctgaacccct ctcctggtca ccgagaatca gtccccgtgg agttccccct ccacctcgcc   60
                                                  Page 59

<removed-date>
              atcgtttcct                                                          70
              <210>    249
              <211>    19
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 249
              tcagaactga ggccgacac                                                19
              <210>    250
              <211>    21
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 250
              ccagatagtc tacctcccgc t                                             21
              <210>    251
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 251
              cagacgatcc actctcccgg agat                                          24
              <210>    252
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 252
              tcagaactga ggccgacacc atctccggga gagtggatcg tctggagcgg gaggtagact   60
              atctgg                                                              66
                                                  Page 60

<removed-date>
              <210>   253
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 253
              gaatctcagc aagaggaacc a                                             21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   254
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 254
              gttcttcgat cggaggtgtt                                               20
              <210>   255
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 255
              ccaactgaca atcaggatat tgaacctgg                                     29
              <210>   256
              <211>   85
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 256
              gaatctcagc aagaggaacc accaactgac aatcaggata ttgaacctgg acaagagaga   60
              gaaggaacac ctccgatcga agaac                                         85
              <210>   257
              <211>   24
                                                  Page 61

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 257
              agagccagtt gctgtagaac tcaa                                          24
              <210>   258
<removed-apn>
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 258
              ctgggcctac acagtccttc a                                             21
              <210>   259
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 259
              tctctgctgg gcaaggatgt tctgttc                                       27
              <210>   260
              <211>   74
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 260
              agagccagtt gctgtagaac tcaaatctct gctgggcaag gatgttctgt tcttgaagga   60
              ctgtgtaggc ccag                                                     74
              <210>   261
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 62

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 261
              acaagcacca tcccagtga                                                19
              <210>   262
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 262
              cacgaagaaa actatgcagc ag                                            22
              <210>   263
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 263
              accagggctc cttgagcaaa tcct                                          24
              <210>   264
              <211>   77
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 264
              acaagcacca tcccagtgat gttctggcag gatttgctca aggagccctg gtggcctgct   60
              gcatagtttt cttcgtg                                                  77
              <210>   265
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 63

              <400> 265
<removed-date>
              cggcaagggg ttgatataga                                               20
              <210>   266
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 266
              tgcctggcat ctctaagca                                                19
              <210>   267
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 267
              ccgttcttct tcctttcgag ctgc                                          24
              <210>   268
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 268
              cggcaagggg ttgatataga agcagctcga aaggaagaag aacggatcat gcttagagat   60
              gccaggca                                                            68
              <210>   269
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 269
              caagcaatgc gtcatcaatg t                                             21
                                                  Page 64

<removed-date>
              <210>   270
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 270
              gtaaatccgc cccctcttct                                               20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   271
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 271
              cagcctctgc ggaatggatc acact                                         25
              <210>   272
              <211>   70
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 272
              caagcaatgc gtcatcaatg tccccagcct ctgcggaatg gatcacactg agaagagggg   60
              gcggatttac                                                          70
              <210>   273
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 273
              gaaattgacg aggggtgtct                                               20
              <210>   274
              <211>   20
                                                  Page 65

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 274
              aggagctaac ggagaacctg                                               20
              <210>   275
<removed-apn>
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 275
              ctctgagcgc ctccatccaa gg                                            22
              <210>   276
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 276
              gaaattgacg aggggtgtct tgggcagagc tggctctgag cgcctccatc caaggccagg   60
              ttctccgtta gctcct                                                   76
              <210>   277
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 277
              tacaggatga ggctgggc                                                 18
              <210>   278
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 66

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 278
              gttgttaggg caaggggc                                                 18
              <210>     279
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 279
              cctgggacag cctatgtaag gcca                                          24
              <210>     280
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 280
              tacaggatga ggctgggcat tgcctgggac agcctatgta aggccatgtg ccccttgccc   60
              taacaac                                                             67
              <210>     281
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 281
              agcgggtgct agagcttgta                                               20
              <210>     282
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 67

              <400> 282
<removed-date>
              atggcacttc ggtctcca                                                 18
              <210>     283
              <211>     25
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 283
              ccatcactgc caacaagaac acctg                                         25
              <210>     284
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 284
              agcgggtgct agagcttgta tccatcactg ccaacaagaa cacctgtcct ggagaccgaa   60
              gtgccat                                                             67
              <210>     285
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 285
              atcgtcagcg agtttgacct                                               20
              <210>     286
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 286
              caggatggct tgggtgag                                                 18
                                                  Page 68

<removed-date>
              <210>    287
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 287
              cagcatccac gcattgacac agac                                          24
<removed-apn>
              <210>    288
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 288
              atcgtcagcg agtttgacct tgtctgtgtc aatgcgtgga tgctggacct cacccaagcc   60
              atcctg                                                              66
              <210>    289
              <211>    22
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 289
              ggacattact ggcctgttca ca                                            22
              <210>    290
              <211>    23
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 290
              accaatactc aggagcagga tga                                           23
              <210>    291
              <211>    23
                                                  Page 69

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 291
              tgcattccag cctcccattt cca                                           23
              <210>   292
<removed-apn>
              <211>   76
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 292
              ggacattact ggcctgttca caatgagctt gcattccagc ctcccatttc caatcatcct   60
              gctcctgagt attggt                                                   76
              <210>   293
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 293
              tcttccctgt acactggcag ttc                                           23
              <210>   294
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 294
              agctcggtgt gggagaggta                                               20
              <210>   295
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 70

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 295
              tggaccagca ccccattgac gg                                            22
              <210>   296
              <211>   73
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 296
              tcttccctgt acactggcag ttcggccagc tggaccagca ccccattgac gggtacctct   60
              cccacaccga gct                                                      73
              <210>   297
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 297
              tgaggagtgg tattttggca aga                                           23
              <210>   298
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 298
              ctctcgggtt ctctgcattg a                                             21
              <210>   299
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 71

              <400> 299
<removed-date>
              aaccgctctg actcccgtct ggtg                                          24
              <210>   300
              <211>   74
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 300
              tgaggagtgg tattttggca agatcaccag acgggagtca gagcggttac tgctcaatgc   60
              agagaacccg agag                                                     74
              <210>   301
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 301
              gtaggtctcc tggcgttctg                                               20
              <210>   302
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 302
              tccctggaag ggtaggagta a                                             21
              <210>   303
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 303
              agacaccact cagaatcccc aggc                                          24
                                                  Page 72

<removed-date>
              <210>   304
              <211>   81
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 304
              gtaggtctcc tggcgttctg ccagctggcc tggggattct gagtggtgtc tgcttagagt   60
<removed-apn>
              ttactcctac ccttccaggg a                                             81
              <210>   305
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 305
              ccagtggtgg tgatcgttca                                               20
              <210>   306
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 306
              gcaaaagcat tgtcccagag a                                             21
              <210>   307
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 307
              cagccaggac aacaatgcga cgg                                           23
              <210>   308
              <211>   74
                                                  Page 73

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 308
              ccagtggtgg tgatcgttca tggcagccag gacaacaatg cgacggccac tgttctctgg   60
              gacaatgctt ttgc                                                     74
<removed-apn>
              <210>   309
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 309
              gctactttga gcgcttctcg                                               20
              <210>   310
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 310
              ggtcaccatc ttgtgtcgg                                                19
              <210>   311
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 311
              caagatgtgg cttctgcaac cagc                                          24
              <210>   312
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 74

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 312
              gctactttga gcgcttctcg ccaagatgtg gcttctgcaa ccagcccatc cgacacaaga   60
              tggtgacc                                                            68
              <210>   313
              <211>   28
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 313
              caagactggc tacatcagag tcttagtg                                      28
              <210>   314
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 314
              cagcgtaggt ttggtcatag atagg                                         25
              <210>   315
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 315
              tgagtctgcc atgacctgtt ttccttcat                                     29
              <210>   316
              <211>   86
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
                                                  Page 75

              <400> 316
<removed-date>
              caagactggc tacatcagag tcttagtgca tgaaggaaaa caggtcatgg cagactcagg   60
              acctatctat gaccaaacct acgctg                                        86
              <210>   317
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 317
              ctctgagaca gtgcttcgat gact                                          24
              <210>   318
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 318
              ccatgaggcc caacttcct                                                19
              <210>   319
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 319
              cagacttggt gccctttgac tcc                                           23
              <210>   320
              <211>   84
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 320
              ctctgagaca gtgcttcgat gactttgcag acttggtgcc ctttgactcc tgggagccgc   60
                                                  Page 76

              tcatgaggaa gttgggcctc atgg                                          84
<removed-date>
              <210>    321
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 321
              aggagatgca gctgaaggag                                               20
              <210>    322
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 322
              ccacctcttc atatttgcgg                                               20
              <210>    323
              <211>    24
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 323
              ccaagcacat cgctgaggat tcag                                          24
              <210>    324
              <211>    66
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>    Artificial DNA
              <400> 324
              aggagatgca gctgaaggag gccaagcaca tcgctgagga ttcagaccgc aaatatgaag   60
              aggtgg                                                              66
                                                  Page 77

              <210>   325
<removed-date>
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 325
              tcagctgtga gctgcggata                                               20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   326
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 326
              acggtcctag gtttgaggtt aaga                                          24
              <210>   327
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 327
              caggtcccat tgccgggcg                                                19
              <210>   328
              <211>   65
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 328
              tcagctgtga gctgcggata ccgcccggca atgggacctg ctcttaacct caaacctagg   60
              accgt                                                               65
              <210>   329
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 78

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 329
              cgaggacgag gcttaaaaac                                               20
              <210>   330
              <211>   20
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 330
              accatgcttg aggacaacag                                               20
              <210>   331
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 331
              tctcagatca atcgtgcatc cttagtgaa                                     29
              <210>   332
              <211>   73
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 332
              cgaggacgag gcttaaaaac ttctcagatc aatcgtgcat ccttagtgaa cttctgttgt   60
              cctcaagcat ggt                                                      73
              <210>   333
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 79

              <223>     Artificial DNA
<removed-date>
              <400> 333
              tgttctcaaa ttgccaccaa                                               20
              <210>     334
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 334
              agaggtcaac acagttgcga                                               20
              <210>     335
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 335
              aggtgcttgg agaccatccc tcaa                                          24
              <210>     336
              <211>     67
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400> 336
              tgttctcaaa ttgccaccaa aaggtgcttg gagaccatcc ctcaacatcg caactgtgtt   60
              gacctct                                                             67
              <210>     337
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>     Artificial DNA
              <400>     337
                                                  Page 80

              gataccacaa ctcccatcaa gct                                           23
<removed-date>
              <210>   338
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
<removed-apn>
              <400> 338
              tccctgttag gcgcatcag                                                19
              <210>   339
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 339
              agtggcagcc acggcgcc                                                 18
              <210>   340
              <211>   68
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 340
              gataccacaa ctcccatcaa gctgttggca gtggcagcca cggcgcctcc tgatgcgcct   60
              aacaggga                                                            68
              <210>   341
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 341
              cattaaccca ctcccctga                                                19
                                                  Page 81

              <210>   342
<removed-date>
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 342
              cccccaccat catgaatact                                               20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   343
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 343
              caggtcccca agtgtgcaag ctc                                           23
              <210>   344
              <211>   75
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Artificial DNA
              <400> 344
              cattaaccca ctcccctgac ctcacgctgg ggcaggtccc caagtgtgca agctcagtat   60
              tcatgatggt ggggg                                                    75
                                                  Page 82

