                                        ABSTRACT
[003381         Systems and methods are provided for defining a nucleic acid construct for
integration at locus L of an organism. Nucleic acid requests are received, each such request
specifying a genetic change to L, and expanded into component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the component polynucleotides are arranged into {ARi, ... , ARm} different
arrangements, each ARi in {ARi, ... , ARm} defining a different arrangement of the
component polynucleotides . In some embodiments, a score Si for each ARi in {ARi,
ARm} is determined based on whether source constructs encoding a portion of ARi are
physically present. In some embodiments, an ARf in {ARi, ... , ARm} is selected based on
the score for ARf. In some embodiments, primer pairs are calculated to amplify the portions
of ARf not represented in the source constructs. In some embodiments, the portions of ARf
amplified by the primer pairs and the portions of ARf in the source constructs, ordered by
ARf, define the nucleic acid construct.

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENGINEERING NUCLEIC ACID CONSTRUCTS
                              USING SCORING TECHNIQUES
[0001]          This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/561,241, filed on November 17, 2011, which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety. This application further claims priority to U.S. Patent Application
No. 13/442,625, filed on April 9, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
1.      FIELD
[0002]          The present disclosure relates generally to the field of recombinant DNA
technology and, more particularly, to improved systems, compositions, and methods for the
ordered assembly of component polynucleotides into engineered nucleic acid constructs in a
rapid and cost efficient manner using available resources.
2.      BACKGROUND
[0003]          A prominent goal of synthetic biology is to produce novel biological systems
that carry out specified desired functions such as the incorporation of biosynthetic pathways
into host cells. As such, synthetic biology requires tools for the selection of genetic
components that are inserted or removed from host cells, as well as tools for selective
mutation of genetic components within host cells.
[0004]          One application of synthetic biology is the development of novel isoprenoid
synthesis pathways in yeast in order to manufacture isoprenoids at reduced costs relative to
conventional techniques. Conventional techniques for manufacturing many isoprenoids, a
diverse family of over 40,000 individual compounds, requires their extraction from natural
sources such as plants, microbes, and animals. The elucidation of the mevalonate-dependent
(MEV) and deoxyxylulose-5-phosphate (DXP) metabolic pathways has made biosynthetic
production of some isoprenoids feasible. For instance, microbes have been engineered to
overexpress a part of or the entire MEV metabolic pathway for production of an isoprenoid
named amorpha -4, II-diene. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,172,886 and 7,192,751, which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
[00051          U.S. Patent No. 7,659,097 discloses how the activity of the MEV and DXP
pathways can be altered in a number of ways in order to increase the synthesis of various
isoprenoids. Such alterations include, but are not limited to, expressing a modified form of
any respective enzyme in the MEV or DXP pathways so that they exhibit increased solubility
                                                1

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
in the host cell, expression of an altered form of the respective enzyme that lacks a domain
through which the activity of the enzyme is inhibited, expressing a modified form of the
respective enzyme that has a higher Kcat or a lower Km for its substrate , or expressing an
altered form of the respective enzyme that is not affected by feed-back or feed-forward
regulation by another molecule in the pathway. Moreover, the nucleic acid sequences
encoding the enzymes in such synthetic pathways can be modified to reflect the codon
preference of the host cell in order to effect a higher expression of such enzymes in the host
cell. Further still, multiple copies of enzymes in such biosynthetic pathways may be
introduced into host cells to effect a higher expression of such enzymes. Further still, such
enzymes may be placed under the control of powerful promoters in the host cell to effect a
higher expression of such enzymes. See U.S. Patent No. 7,659,097, which is hereby
incorporated by reference. The above illustrates just some of the many changes to the locus
of a host cell or organism that are made in order to realize a synthetic biology design goal
such as the manufacture of isoprenoids.
[00061           As the above illustrates, the realization of synthetic biology goals is best
achieved through an iterative trial and error approach in which tens, hundreds, or even
thousands of different design attempts are tested in vivo in a host cell or organism on a
periodic basic (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly) to determine if a design goal has been reached
and to improve upon such design goals. As such, it is clear that what is needed in the art are
improved platforms for realizing such design goals faster, more efficiently, and in an even
more economical fashion.
[00071           One facet of a platform for realizing synthetic biology design goals is
mechanisms for reducing design goals into a form that is interpretable by a compiler. In one
approach, Pedersen and Phillips, 2009, "Towards programming languages for genetic
engineering of living cells", J. R. Soc. Interface 6, S437-S450 provide a formal language for
genetic engineering of living cells (GEC) in which one or more in silico databases of parts are
searched by a compiler for a set of parts that satisfy a design goal. See also, U.S. Patent
Application Publication No. 2011/0054654 in which GEC is also described. The work of
Pedersen and coworkers provides a satisfactory framework for modeling complex pathways
in silico. Such in silico models can then be used to make in silico predictions on what
changes to the model would achieve a desired design goal. However, the data that would
make such in silico modeling more useful, such as the molecular properties of a number of
components of molecular pathways under a number of different reaction conditions, is
presently unavailable. Consequently, to date, the work of Pederson and coworkers has not
                                                  2

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
eliminated the need for an iterative trial and error approach to realizing a synthetic biology
design goal in which tens, hundreds, or even thousands of different design attempts are tested
in vivo on a periodic basic (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly).
[00081           The drawbacks of iterative trial and error approaches are the time and costs
that such approaches take. It takes extensive resources, including time and money, to make
all the constructs necessary for a design attempt and to test the design attempt in vivo. For
each design attempt, the constructs, termed engineered nucleic acid constructs, which effect
the desired changes to the locus of a host cell or organism, need to be made. This often
requires the custom synthesis of oligonucleotide primers in order to subclone desired nucleic
acid components from a genomic library and/or to effect desired mutations in existing nucleic
acid sequences. Such engineered nucleic acid constructs are then introduced into a host cell
or organism where they either recombine with a locus of the host genome or exist in a stable
vector form. As such, the design of even a limited number of engineered nucleic acid
constructs may require the synthesis of dozens or even hundreds of custom oligonucleotide
primers in order to make the needed engineered nucleic acid constructs using existing
template nucleic acids, such as existing constructs or nucleic acids in a genomic library.
[0009]           Thus, despite advances in the field of synthetic biology, there remains a need
for improved systems, compositions, and methods that provide for the rapid and ordered
assembly of nucleic acid components into engineered nucleic acid constructs. Particularly
needed are systems and methods that reduce the cost and increase the speed of the iterative
trial and error approach that is used in synthetic biology applications, including the
construction of engineered nucleic acid constructs. These and other needs are met by
systems, compositions, and methods of the present disclosure.
3.       SUMMARY
[0010]           The present disclosure addresses the shortcomings of known approaches to
synthetic biology. In the present disclosure, a robust language is provided for describing
nucleic acid requests. These nucleic acid requests are interpreted and expanded into a
plurality of component nucleic acids in a contiguous arrangement.
[0011]           In some embodiments, a database of physically present component
polynucleic acids is searched to see if any of the component nucleic acids in the contiguous
arrangement already exist. In some embodiments, and where possible, the order of individual
component polynucleic acids in the plurality of component polynucleic acids is rearranged,
often several times, to see if such contiguous rearrangements lead to the identification of a
                                                3

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
larger number of component polynucleic acids in the database of physically present
component polynucleic acids. In some embodiments, a contiguous arrangement of the
plurality of component nucleic acids that is best represented by the database of physically
present component polynucleic acids is selected. In some embodiments, primer pairs are
generated for the portions of the selected contiguous arrangement not present in the database.
The portions of the contiguous arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and
the one or more component polynucleotides in the database identified for the selected
contiguous arrangement can be used to rapidly assemble the engineered nucleic acid
construct in a faster, more efficient manner than conventional iterative trial and error
approaches to pursuing a synthetic biology design goal.
[0012]          One aspect provides a method of defining an engineered nucleic acid construct
for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell. A plurality of
nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} is received from a requester through a computer
interface. Here, n is a positive integer greater than 1. In some embodiments, n is an integer
in the range 1 to 100. Each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies a genetic
change to L, for example, a request to insert an exogenous promoter-gene unit at L. Each
nucleic request NRi in the plurality of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} is expanded into a corresponding
component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides. The
type of expansion that is performed in this step depends on the nature of each NRi. In some
embodiments, NRi includes the full nucleic acid sequence of what is to be inserted at L. In
such embodiments, since the nucleic acid sequence is fully described, the expansion step does
not accomplish any actual expansion of the nucleic acid request. In some embodiments, NRi
is a request for a point mutation of a given gene. To ease the work on the request,
advantageously, NRi may use abbreviated notation to identify the gene and the point mutation
that is requested. Such abbreviated notation is described more fully below. In this instance,
the expansion step validates that the name of the gene identified in NRi is a valid gene,
retrieves the nucleic acid sequence for the gene, and makes the requested point mutation.
Once the expansion step is complete, the plurality of {NR 1 , ... , NRI} is represented as a
plurality of component polynucleotides.
[0013]          In some embodiments, the plurality of component polynucleotides is arranged
into a contiguous arrangement ARi using linker nucleic acid sequences to form the
arrangement ARi. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from
a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, this
arranging is done a number of times, either in concurrent or sequential arrangement steps,
                                                   4

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
until a set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous arrangements is formed. This is done because,
typically, several different arrangements of the component polynucleotides, each of which
fully comply with the requirements of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,}, exists. Thus, m is a positive integer
greater than 1, and, in fact, often much larger than 1. For example, m can be 5 or greater in
some embodiments. A score Si is determined for each respective contiguous arrangement
ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}. In some embodiments, the scoring step is done after each
arrangement ARi is made rather than waiting until the set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} has been
defined. In such embodiments, the cycle of arranging and scoring is terminated as soon as a
satisfactory arrangement is found.
[0014]          In some embodiments, for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi, a
contribution to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement is made when one or more source
constructs are identified as being physically present in a freezer store. Each such physically
present source construct encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides. Moreover,
in some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective
component polynucleotide of the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one
or more physically present source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid
sequence that was used for the corresponding component polynucleotide in the arranging to
form ARi. To illustrate, consider the case where there is a component polynucleotide CP
with a 3' linker nucleic acid sequence LB 2 (i.e., 5'-CP-LB 2-3') in ARi. What is desired is a
component polynucleotide CP encoded by the one or more physically present source
constructs with a 3' linker nucleic acid sequence LB 2 (i.e., 5'-CP-LB 2-3').
[00151          In some embodiments, a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
is selected that has a score Si that meets a selection criterion. In some embodiments, ARf
defines the engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, in response to selection
of the ARf, one or more primer pairs is calculated based on the ARf, where each primer pair
in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARf not represented in
any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARf. In such
embodiments, the portions of the contiguous arrangement amplified by the one or more
primer pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically
present source constructs identified for ARf, in the order specified in the ARf, collectively
define the engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, at least portions of the
above-identified method (e.g., the expanding, arranging, repeating, determining, selecting, or
calculating described above) is performed using one or more suitably programmed
computers.
                                                 5

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
[00161          Another aspect provides an apparatus comprising one or more memories and
one or more processors. The one or more memories and the one or more processors are in
electronic communication with each other. The one or more memories tangibly encode a set
of instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a
genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the one or more processors. The set
of instructions comprise instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR1,
    NR,,}, where n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1,
    NR} specifying a genetic change to L. The set of instructions further comprise
instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} into a corresponding component
polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for arranging the plurality
of component polynucleotides into a contiguous arrangement ARi, where the arranging uses
linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides into a contiguous arrangement ARi. In some embodiments, the
linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for
repeating the instructions for arranging until a set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous
arrangements are formed, where m is a positive integer greater than 1. The set of {AR 1 , ...
ARm} contiguous arrangements represent a plurality of different contiguous arrangements of
the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for determining a score Si
for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}. In some embodiments,
for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi, a contribution to the score Si is made when
one or more source constructs are identified as being physically present in a freezer store,
where each of the one or more physically present source constructs encode one or more of the
component polynucleotides. In some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5'
termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component
polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs is bound to
a corresponding linker that was used for the corresponding component polynucleotide in the
instructions for arranging to form ARi. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further
comprise instructions for selecting a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
having a score Si that meets a selection criterion as an optimal contiguous arrangement. In
some embodiments, ARf defines the engineered nucleic acid construct. In some
embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for calculating one or more
                                                6

   WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
primer pairs based upon the final contiguous arrangement ARf, where each primer pair in the
one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARf not represented in any
identified one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present
source constructs identified for the ARf. In such embodiments, the portions of the contiguous
arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARf, in
the order specified in ARf, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[00171          Another aspect provides a method of defining an engineered nucleic acid
construct for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell. The
method comprises receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR" }, where n is a
positive integer greater than 1. Each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies a
genetic change to L. Each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} is expanded into a corresponding
component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides. In
some embodiments, the plurality of component polynucleotides is arranged into a contiguous
arrangement ARi. In some embodiments, this arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into the
ARi. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a
predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, in response to
the arranging, one or more source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically
present in a freezer store are selected. Each of the one or more physically present source
constructs encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides. In some embodiments, a
3' or 5' terminus, or both a 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in
the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present
source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker that was used for the corresponding
component polynucleotide in the arranging to form ARi. In some embodiments, one or more
primer pairs are calculated based upon ARi. In some embodiments, each primer pair is
capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified one or more
physically present source constructs identified for ARi. In such embodiments, the portions of
the contiguous arrangement ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or
more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic
acid construct. In some embodiments, at least portions of the above-identified method (e.g.,
the expanding, arranging, selecting, and/or calculating) is performed using one or more
suitably programmed computers.
                                                7

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[00181           Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an apparatus comprising one
or more memories and one or more processors. The one or more memories and the one or
more processors are in electronic communication with each other. The one or more
memories tangibly encode a set of instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid
construct for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the
one or more processors. In this aspect of the present disclosure, the set of instructions
comprise instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 ,  ... , NR,}, where
n is a positive integer greater than 1. Each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1,   ... , NR"}
specifies a genetic change to L. The set of instructions further comprise instructions for
expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} into a corresponding component polynucleotide
having a nucleic acid sequence, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides.
In some embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for arranging the
plurality of component polynucleotides into a contiguous arrangement ARi. In some
embodiments, the arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component
polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into a contiguous arrangement
ARi. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a
predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, the set of
instructions further comprise instructions for selecting one or more source constructs from a
plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store. Each of the one or more
physically present source constructs encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides.
In some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective
component polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one
or more physically present source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid
that was used for the respective component polynucleotide in the arranging to form ARi. In
some embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for calculating one or
more primer pairs based upon the ARi. Each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is
capable of amplifying a portion of the ARi not represented in any identified one or more
physically present source constructs identified for the ARi. In such embodiments, the
portions of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for the
ARi, in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid
construct.
[0019]           Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of defining a
plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, where k is a positive integer
                                                 8

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
greater than 1. Each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} is designed to
be integrated into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell. The method
comprises receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of
 {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } nucleic acid requests. Each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,.}
specifies a genetic change to L. For each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, n is a positive
integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In the
method, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij in {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1 } is
expanded into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence,
thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the corresponding plurality of
component polynucleotides from the expanding is arranged into a contiguous arrangement
ARi. In some embodiments, this arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine
component polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides into
ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in
 {AR1, ... , ARm} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments, the linker
nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences. For each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more source constructs from a
plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store is selected. Each of the one
or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} encodes
one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides
for the respective ENi. In some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5'
termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component
polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs for a
respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the arranging step above that was used to form ARi.
For each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in
 {AR1, ... , ARm} that represents ENi is calculated. Each primer pair in the one or more primer
pairs for a ARi is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified one
or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi. In such embodiments, the
portions of the contiguous arrangement ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and
the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source
constructs identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered
nucleic acid construct ENi. In some embodiments, at least one of the aforementioned steps
                                                   9

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
(e.g., the expanding, arranging, selecting, and/or calculating) is performed using one or more
suitably programmed computers.
[0020]          Another aspect provides an apparatus comprising one or more memories and
one or more processors. The one or more memories and the one or more processors are in
electronic communication with each other. The one or more memories encode a set of
instructions for defining a plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid constructs,
where k is a positive integer greater than 1, using the one or more processors. Each
engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN} is for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell. The set of instructions comprises instructions for
receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1, ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of {NRi, 1, ... ,
NRi,1} nucleic acid requests. Each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } specifies a
genetic change to L. For each respective ENi in {EN 1,       ... , EN}, n is a positive integer that is
the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1,     ... ,  ENk}. The set of instructions
further comprise instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each
NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic
acid sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for
each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further
comprises instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the expanding into a contiguous
arrangement ARi, where the arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine
component polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides into
ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in
 {ARI, ... , ARm} representing a ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments, the linker
nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further comprises instructions for
selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more source constructs from a
plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, where each of the one or
more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} encode one
or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides for
the respective ENi. In some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini,
of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides
encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi is
bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the respective component
polynucleotide in the arranging to form ARi. In some embodiments, the set of instructions
                                                  10

     WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
further comprise instructions for calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one
or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, where each
primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not
represented in any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for
ARi. In such embodiments, the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs
and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source
constructs identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered
nucleic acid construct ENi.
[0021]            Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an apparatus comprising one
or more memories and one or more processors. The one or more memories and the one or
more processors are in electronic communication with each other. The one or more
memories encode a set of instructions for defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid
constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, where k is an integer greater than 1. Each engineered nucleic
acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} is for integration into a genomic locus L of a target
organism or a host cell. The set of instructions comprise instructions for receiving, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1, ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi, 1,
... NRi,1} in digital alphanumeric format. Each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... ,
NRi,1} specifies a genetic change to L, where, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , .... , ENk}, n is
a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1 , .... , ENk}.
The set of instructions further comprise instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in
 {EN 1, ... , ENk}, each NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } into a corresponding component
polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of
component polynucleotides for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some
embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise instructions for arranging, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides
from the instructions for expanding into a contiguous arrangement ARi, where the arranging
uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of
corresponding component polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of
contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} representing an ENi
in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected
from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, the set
of instructions further comprise instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 ,
.... , ENk}, one or more source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically
present in a freezer store, where each of the one or more physically present source constructs
                                                    11

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
for a respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} encodes one or more of the component
polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides for the respective ENi. In
some embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective
component polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one
or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding
linker nucleic acid that was used for the respective component polynucleotide in the
arranging to form ARi. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further includes
instructions for calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1    . , EN}, one or more primer
pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, where each primer pair in
the one or more primer pairs for an ARi is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not
represented in any identified one or more source constructs identified for ARi. In such
embodiments, the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or
more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic
acid construct ENi.
[0022]            Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for defining a
plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid constructs, where k is an integer greater
than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a
genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell. The method comprises receiving, for
each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,.}
nucleic acid requests in digital alphanumeric format, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1,
... NRi,1} specifying a genetic change to L, where , for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... ,
ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1 , ...
ENk}. The method further comprises expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk},
each NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,} into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a
nucleic acid sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component
polynucleotides for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments, the
method further comprises arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the expanding into a contiguous
arrangement ARi, where the arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine
component polynucleotides in the plurality of corresponding component polynucleotides into
ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARk}, each ARi in
 {AR 1, ... , ARk} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}. In some embodiments, the linker
nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
                                                 12

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
sequences. In some embodiments, the method further comprises selecting, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more source constructs from a plurality of source
constructs physically present in a freezer store, where the one or more physically present
source constructs collectively encode a portion of the ARi corresponding to ENi. In some
embodiments, the method further comprises calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 ,
ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ..., ARk} that represents the
respective ENi, where each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of
amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified one or more physically present
source constructs identified for ARi. In such embodiments, the portions of ARi amplified by
the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or
more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi,
collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi. In some embodiments, the
method further comprises outputting to a non-transitory computer memory, a persistent data
storage, a monitor, or a printer, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more
primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} that represents the respective ENi, and
the one or more source constructs identified by the instructions for calculating for the
respective ENi, where at least a portion of the above-identified method (e.g., the expanding,
arranging, selecting, and/or calculating) is performed using a suitably programmed computer.
[0023]           Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an apparatus comprising one
or more memories and one or more processors. The one or more memories and the one or
more processors are in electronic communication with each other. The one or more
memories encode a set of instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for
integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the one or more
processors. The set of instructions comprise instructions for representing a set of component
polynucleotide slots in either (i) a linear or a near linear contiguous arrangement on a display
or (ii) a vertical or a near vertical arrangement on the display, where each component
polynucleotide slot in the set of component polynucleotide slots is configured to represent a
component polynucleotide when populated. The set of component polynucleotide slots
collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct. Moreover, at least a portion of the
set of component polynucleotide slots is initially unpopulated. The set of instructions further
comprise instructions for receiving a selection of a first component polynucleotide slot in the
set of component polynucleotide slots. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further
comprise instructions for listing, as a table on the display and responsive to receiving the
selection of the first component polynucleotide slot, a first plurality of component
                                                 13

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store that are eligible to populate the first
component polynucleotide slot. The set of instructions further comprise instructions for
permitting a user to populate the first component polynucleotide slot with a component
polynucleotide from the table. The set of instructions further comprise instructions for
receiving a selection of a second component polynucleotide slot in the set of component
polynucleotide slots. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further comprise
instructions for dynamically updating the table on the display, responsive to receiving the
selection of the second component polynucleotide slot, to list a second plurality of component
polynucleotides physically present in the freezer store that are eligible to populate the second
component polynucleotide slot. In some embodiments, the set of instructions further
comprise instructions for permitting a user to populate the second component polynucleotide
slot with a component polynucleotide from the table where the component polynucleotides
used to populate the set of component polynucleotide slots, in the sequential order displayed
in the display, define the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[0024]          Another aspect provides an apparatus comprising one or more memories and
one or more processors, where the one or more memories and the one or more processors are
in electronic communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of
instructions for determining whether a nucleic acid sequence is present in any source
construct in a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, using the one
or more processors. The set of instructions comprises instructions for receiving a first nucleic
acid sequence in electronic alphanumeric format using a display in electronic communication
with the one or more memories. The set of instructions further comprises instructions for
receiving a matching threshold criterion using the display. The set of instructions further
comprises instructions for comparing the first nucleic acid sequence with a sequence of each
respective source construct in the plurality of source constructs, where, when a second
nucleic acid sequence that satisfies the matching threshold criterion is found within the
sequence of a respective source construct, the instructions for comparing further include
instructions for displaying an identity of the respective source construct.
4.      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[00251          Figure 1 shows an exemplary computer system for defining an engineered
nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic locus in accordance with an embodiment
of the present disclosure.
                                                14

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[00261          Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary method for defining an engineered nucleic
acid construct for integration into a genomic locus, in which individual arrangements of
component polynucleotides in a plurality of different arrangements of component
polynucleotides, each such individual arrangement encoding a candidate for the engineered
nucleic acid construct, are scored based on availability of their component polynucleotides in
a freezer store, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[00271          Figure 3 illustrates a graphical user interface for inputting one or more
pluralities of nucleic acid requests, where each of the one or more pluralities of nucleic acid
requests specifies a set of genetic changes that are to be made to a locus, in accordance with
an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0028]           [0026] Figure 4 provides an exemplary plurality of nucleic acid requests,
HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1 , in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure. Figure 4A illustrates a complete set of possible component polynucleotides that
may be searched in a freezer store database for anexemplary arrangement of the plurality of
nucleic acid requests: 5' - LA 1 - pFBA1     - LB 1 -3', 5'  - LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2 -3', 5' - LA 3
- pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5'- LA 4 - ADHI- LB 4 - 3', which encodes the plurality of nucleic acid
requests HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1, in accordance with an embodiment of the
present disclosure. Figure 4B illustrates a complete set of possible subsets of an exemplary
arrangement in a single source construct.
[0029]          Figure 5 illustrates the portions of a final arrangement of component
polynucleotides for an engineered nucleic acid construct that are encoded by matching
component polynucleotides in a freezer store database and the portions of the final
arrangement that are to be built using primer pairs and a nucleic acid library of a target
organism or a host cell in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0030]          Figure 6A illustrates an exemplary freezer store database detailing source
constructs that are physically present in a corresponding freezer store and, for each such
source construct, the component polynucleotide (inserts) within the source construct in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0031]          Figure 6B illustrates another exemplary freezer store database detailing source
constructs that are physically present in a corresponding freezer store and, for each such
source construct, the component polynucleotide (inserts) within the source construct in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                                15

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
[00321            Figure 7 illustrates a library of linker nucleic acid sequences including the
category of each linker nucleic acid sequence in accordance with an embodiment of the
present disclosure.
[00331            Figure 8 illustrates another exemplary freezer store database detailing source
constructs that are physically present in a corresponding freezer store and, for each such
source construct, the component polynucleotide (inserts) within the source construct and
other information in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0034]            Figure 9 provides an exemplary method of preparing an entry vector for
acceptance of a DNA segment to form an assembly vector. In the exemplary method, RY=
RZ=SchI. Digestion with SchI, a Type IIS restriction endonuclease that is capable of
producing blunt ends, allows for isolation of the vector with the linker sites open to be fused
to the DNA segment (D). Blunt-end ligation of D into the entry vector can be performed by
traditional methods using, e.g., T4 DNA ligase.
[00351            Figure 10 presents a schematic of an assembly composition comprising a
plurality of assembly vectors (first, intermediate, and last), each comprising a DNA segment
of interest (Do, D, Dm). The first nucleic acid molecule comprises a first restriction site RAO,
a primer binding segment PA, a DNA segment Do, an annealable linker sequence LBO, and a
second restriction site RBo. The one or more intermediate nucleic acid molecules comprise a
first restriction site RA, a first annealable linker sequence LA, a DNA segment D, a second
annealable linker sequence LB, and a second restriction site RB1 wherein n represents an
integer from one to the number of intermediate nucleic acid molecules; and the last nucleic
acid molecule comprises a first restriction site RAm, an annealable linker sequence LAm, a
DNA segment Dm, a primer binding segment PB, a second restriction site RBm wherein m
represents an integer one greater than the number of intermediate nucleic acid molecules.
[0036]            Figure 11 presents an exemplary method of assembling, i.e., "stitching" a
assembled polynucleotide from four (4) component polynucleotides. Assembly vectors
comprising DNA segments to be assembled are pooled in a single tube and digested with
SapI to release component polynucleotide fragments from the assembly vector backbones.
Following heat inactivation of SapI, the component polynucleotide fragments are subjected to
denaturing conditions, followed by annealing conditions sufficient for hybridization of the
complementary annealable linker pairs. Following primer extension in the presence of DNA
polymerase and dNTPs, primers complementary to PA and PB are added, followed by
traditional PCR amplification. An assembled polynucleotide comprising component
                                                   16

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides Do, D1 , D2 , and D3 assembled in a 5' to 3' direction is produced as a result of
the assembling reaction.
[00371          Figure 12 illustrates an exemplary method for defining an engineered nucleic
acid construct for integration into a genomic locus, in which a single arrangement of
component polynucleotides that encodes a candidate for the engineered nucleic acid construct
is computed and the availability of component polynucleotides in the arrangement in a
freezer store is determined, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0038]          Figure 13 illustrates an exemplary method for defining a plurality of
engineered nucleic acid constructs for integration into a genomic locus, in which several
different pluralities of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR"} are received and, for each
respective plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 ,  ... , NR}, an arrangement of component
polynucleotides that effect the nucleic acid requests of the respective plurality of nucleic acid
requests is formed and the availability of component polynucleotides for the arrangement in a
freezer store is determined, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0039]          Figure 14 illustrates a graphical user interface upon inputting one or more
pluralities of nucleic acid requests, where each of the one or more pluralities of nucleic acid
requests specifies a set of genetic changes that are to be made to a locus, in accordance to an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0040]          Figure 15 illustrates a graphical user interface for identifying component
polynucleotides in a freezer store in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure.
[0041]          Figure 16 illustrates a graphical user interface for identifying component
polynucleotides in a freezer store, in which a first component polynucleotide has been
selected from the freezer store, in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0042]          Figure 17 illustrates a graphical user interface for identifying component
polynucleotides in a freezer store, in which a second component polynucleotide has been
selected from the freezer store and an icon for the second component polynucleotide is
aligned with an icon for a first component polynucleotide, in accordance with an embodiment
of the present disclosure.
[0043]          Figure 18 illustrates a graphical user interface for identifying component
polynucleotides in a freezer store, in which a third component polynucleotide has been
selected from the freezer store and an icon for the third component polynucleotide is aligned
with icons for a first and a second component polynucleotide, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                                17

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
[00441          Figure 19 illustrates a graphical user interface for identifying component
polynucleotides in a freezer store, in which selected component polynucleotides are sent to a
clone manager as a proposed engineered nucleic acid construct, in accordance with an
embodiment of the disclosure.
[00451          Figure 20 illustrates a graphical user interface for searching for polynucleic
acid sequences in a freezer store database that match a query polynucleic acid sequence. A
user pastes or types a polynucleic acid sequence into an interface box and all of the possible
matches that exceed a threshold criterion are displayed.
[0046]          Figure 21 illustrates a graphical user interface for searching polynucleic acid
sequences in a freezer store database that match a query polynucleic acid sequence. After a
user pastes or types the query polynucleic acid sequence into an interface box, an alignment
of all of the possible matches against the query polynucleic acid sequence that exceed a
threshold criterion is displayed.
[00471          Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several
views of the drawings.
5.      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
        5.1     Definitions
[0048]          As used herein, the term "locus" refers to the chromosomal position at which a
gene resides. In addition to the intronic and exonic regions of the gene, a locus can include
regions which regulate the expression of the gene product, e.g., promoter sequences,
terminators, translational regulatory sequences such as ribosome binding sites and internal
ribosome entry sites, enhancers, silencers, insulators, and boundary elements.
[0049]          As used herein, the term "selectable marker" refers to wide variety of
selectable markers that are known in the art (see, for example, Kaufinan, Meth. Enzymol.,
185:487 (1990); Kaufman, Meth. Enzymol., 185:537 (1990); Srivastava and Schlessinger,
Gene, 103:53 (1991); Romanos et al., in DNA Cloning 2: Expression Systems, 2nd Edition,
pages 123-167 (IRL Press 1995); Markie, Methods Mol. Biol., 54:359 (1996); Pfeifer et al.,
Gene, 188:183 (1997); Tucker and Burke, Gene, 199:25 (1997); Hashida-Okado et al., FEBS
Letters, 425:117 (1998)), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety
for their teachings on selectable markers. One type of selectable marker is a drug resistant
marker. A drug resistant marker enables cells to detoxify an exogenous drug that would
otherwise kill the cell. Illustrative examples of drug resistant markers include, but are not
                                                18

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
limited to, those which confer resistance to antibiotics such as ampicillin, tetracycline,
kanamycin, bleomycin, streptomycin, hygromycin, neomycin, ZEOCINTM, and the like. In
other embodiments, the selectable marker is an auxotrophic marker. An auxotrophic marker
allows cells to synthesize an essential component, usually an amino acid, while grown in
media that lacks that essential component. Selectable auxotrophic gene sequences include,
for example, hisD, which allows growth in histidine free media in the presence of histidinol.
Other selectable markers include a bleomycin-resistance gene, a metallothionein gene, a
hygromycin B-phosphotransferase gene, the AURI gene, an adenosine deaminase gene, an
aminoglycoside phosphotransferase gene, a dihydrofolate reductase gene, a thymidine kinase
gene, a xanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase gene, and the like.
[00501           As used herein, the terms "polynucleotide" and "nucleic acid sequence"
interchangeably refer to a polymer composed of nucleotide units as would be understood by
one of skill in the art. Preferred nucleotide units include but are not limited to those
comprising adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U). Useful
modified nucleotide units include but are not limited to those comprising 4-acetylcytidine,
5-(carboxyhydroxylmethyl)uridine, 2-0-methylcytidine, 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl-2
thiouridine, 5-carboxymethylamino-methyluridine, dihydrouridine, 2-0
methylpseudouridine, 2-0-methylguanosine, inosine, N6-isopentyladenosine, 1
methyladenosine, 1-methylpseudouridine, 1-methylguanosine, 1-methylinosine, 2,2
dimethylguanosine, 2-methyladenosine, 2-methylguanosine, 3-methylcytidine, 5
methylcytidine, N6-methyladenosine, 7-methylguanosine, 5-methylaminomethyluridine, 5
methoxyaminomethyl-2-thiouridine, 5-methoxyuridine, 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2
thiouridine, 5-methoxycarbonylmethyluridine, 2-methylthio-N6-isopentyladenosine, uridine
5-oxyacetic acid-methylester, uridine-5-oxyacetic acid, wybutoxosine, wybutosine,
pseudouridine, queuosine, 2-thiocytidine, 5-methyl-2-thiouridine, 2-thiouridine, 4
thiouridine, 5-methyluridine, 2-0-methyl-5-methyluridine, 2-0-methyluridine, and the like.
Polynucleotides include naturally occurring nucleic acids, such as deoxyribonucleic acid
("DNA") and ribonucleic acid ("RNA"), as well as nucleic acid analogs. Nucleic acid
analogs include those that include non-naturally occurring bases, nucleotides that engage in
linkages with other nucleotides other than the naturally occurring phosphodiester bond or that
include bases attached through linkages other than phosphodiester bonds. Thus, nucleotide
analogs include, for example and without limitation, phosphorothioates, phosphorodithioates,
phosphorotriesters, phosphoramidates, boranophosphates, methylphosphonates, chiral-methyl
phosphonates, 2-0-methyl ribonucleotides, peptide-nucleic acids (PNAs), and the like.
                                                19

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
[00511           As used herein, an "engineered nucleic acid construct" refers to a
polynucleotide produced by the methods of polynucleotide assembly described herein. The
assembled polynucleotide can be comprised of the two or more component polynucleotides.
In some embodiments, the assembled polynucleotide comprises 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15 or more component polynucleotides. Assembled polynucleotide length can
range from about 100 to about 20,000 nucleotides, or more. In some embodiments, the
assembled polynucleotide length ranges from about 200 to about 10,000, about 200 to about
8000, about 200 to about 5000, about 200 to about 3000, or about 200 to about 1000
nucleotides. In other embodiments, the assembled polynucleotide length can range from
about 200 to about 2000, about 2000 to about 5000, about 5000 to about 10,000, about
10,000 to about 20,000, or greater than 20,000 nucleotides.
[0052]           Conventional notation is used herein to describe polynucleotide sequences:
the left-hand end of a single-stranded polynucleotide sequence is the 5'-end; the left-hand
direction of a double-stranded polynucleotide sequence is referred to as the 5'-direction.
[0053]           As used herein, a "component polynucleotide" refers to a polynucleotide
sequence that can be assembled together to form an "engineered nucleic acid construct" using
the methods of polynucleotide assembly described herein. A "component polynucleotide",
alternately referred to as "bits" herein, refers to any isolated or isolatable molecule of DNA.
Useful examples include but are not limited to a protein-coding sequence, reporter gene,
fluorescent marker coding sequence, promoter, enhancer, terminator, intron, exon, poly-A
tail, multiple cloning site, nuclear localization signal, mRNA stabilization signal, selectable
marker, integration loci, epitope tag coding sequence, degradation signal, or any other
naturally occurring or synthetic DNA molecule. In some embodiments, the DNA segment
can be of natural origin. Alternatively, a DNA segment can be completely of synthetic
origin, produced in vitro. Furthermore, a DNA segment can comprise any combination of
isolated naturally occurring DNA molecules, or any combination of an isolated naturally
occurring DNA molecule and a synthetic DNA molecule. For example, a DNA segment may
comprise a heterologous promoter operably linked to a protein coding sequence, a protein
coding sequence linked to a poly-A tail, a protein coding sequence linked in-frame with a
epitope tag coding sequence, and the like.
[0054]           As used herein, the term "encode," as used in the context of a construct, for
example a physically present source construct "encoding" a component polynucleotide,
means that the source construct is a nucleic acid molecule that comprises the nucleic acid
sequence which defines the component polynucleotide. For example, where the component
                                                 20

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotide is a promoter, the source construct that "encodes" this component
polynucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of the promoter.
[0055]            "Complementary" refers to the topological compatibility or matching together
of interacting surfaces of two polynucleotides as understood by those of skill in the art. Thus,
two sequences are "complementary" to one another if they are capable of hybridizing to one
another to form a stable anti-parallel, double-stranded nucleic acid structure. A first
polynucleotide is complementary to a second polynucleotide if the nucleotide sequence of the
first polynucleotide is substantially identical to the nucleotide sequence of the polynucleotide
binding partner of the second polynucleotide, or if the first polynucleotide can hybridize to
the second polynucleotide under stringent hybridization conditions. Thus, the polynucleotide
whose sequence 5'-TATAC-3' is complementary to a polynucleotide whose sequence is 5'
GTATA-3'.
[0056]            "Primer" refers to a polynucleotide sequence that is capable of specifically
hybridizing to a polynucleotide template sequence, e.g., a primer binding segment, and is
capable of providing a point of initiation for synthesis of a complementary polynucleotide
under conditions suitable for synthesis, i.e., in the presence of nucleotides and an agent that
catalyzes the synthesis reaction (e.g., a DNA polymerase). The primer is complementary to
the polynucleotide template sequence, but it need not be an exact complement of the
polynucleotide template sequence. For example, a primer can be at least about 80, 85, 90, 95,
96, 97, 98, or 99% identical to the complement of the polynucleotide template sequence. A
primer can be of variable length but generally is at least 15 bases. In some embodiments, the
primer is between 15 and 35 bases long. In some embodiments, the primer is more than 35
bases long. In other embodiments, the primer has a melting temperature (Tm), i.e., the
temperature at which one half of the DNA duplex will dissociate to become single stranded,
of at least 50 0 C. In other embodiments, the primer has a Tm between about 50 0 C and 70 0 C.
In still other embodiments, the primer does not form appreciable DNA or RNA secondary
structures so as to not impact the efficiency of hybridization to the polynucleotide template
sequence.
[00571            As used herein, the term "primer binding segment" is a polynucleotide
sequence that binds to a primer so as to provide a point of initiation for synthesis of a
complementary polynucleotide under conditions suitable for synthesis. In some
embodiments, the primer binding sequence is one of the annealable linkers of the present
invention. A sequence is a primer binding sequence instead of an annealable linker by the
absence of a complementary linker within a given set of assembly vectors or component
                                                21

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides within an assembly composition. In some embodiments, the primer binding
segment can function as a genomic targeting sequence, e.g., an upstream or downstream
genomic targeting sequence.
[0058]           As used herein, the term "linker nucleic acid sequence" and "annealable linker
sequence" are used interchangeably and refer to a polynucleotide sequence that flanks a DNA
segment within an entry vector or assembly vector. In some embodiments, upon excision of
a component polynucleotide from an assembly vector, and denaturation of the component
polynucleotide, an annealable linker is capable of specifically hybridizing to a
complementary annealable linker sequence of an adjacent component polynucleotide in a
polynucleotide assembly reaction, as described herein. In some embodiments, an annealable
linker, upon annealing with a complementary linker strand, can provide a point of initiation
for synthesis of a complementary polynucleotide.
[00591           As used herein, the term "vector" is used in reference to extrachromosomal
nucleic acid molecules capable of replication in a cell and to which an insert sequence can be
operatively linked so as to bring about replication of the insert sequence. Useful examples
include but are not limited to circular DNA molecules such as plasmid constructs, phage
constructs, cosmid vectors, etc., as well as linear nucleic acid constructs (e.g., lambda phage
constructs, bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs), yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs),
etc.). A vector may include expression signals such as a promoter and/or a terminator, a
selectable marker such as a gene conferring resistance to an antibiotic, and one or more
restriction sites into which insert sequences can be cloned. Vectors can have other unique
features (such as the size of DNA insert they can accommodate).
[0060]           As used herein, the term "entry vector" refers to a cloning vector plasmid that
can serve as a parental vector for the preparation of an assembly vector to be used in the
polynucleotide assembly methods provided herein. An entry vector comprises two
annealable linker sequences, or an annealable linker sequence and a primer binding segment,
which flank restriction sites that can be utilized for the introduction of a DNA segment to
form an assembly vector. As used herein, an "assembly vector" refers to an entry vector to
which a DNA segment has been introduced. An assembly vector can be used in the
polynucleotide assembly methods described herein to provide a component polynucleotide to
be assembled into a assembled polynucleotide.
[0061]           As used herein, the term "assembly vector" refers to a vector comprising one
annealable linker sequence, two annealable linker sequences, or an annealable linker
sequence and a primer binding segment, and a DNA segment.
                                                22

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[00621          As used herein, the term "restriction enzyme" or "restriction endonuclease"
refers to a member or members of a classification of catalytic molecules that bind a cognate
sequence of DNA and cleave the DNA molecule at a precise location within that sequence.
Restriction endonucleases include Type IIS restriction endonucleases. This class of enzymes
differs from other restriction endonucleases in that the recognition sequence is separate from
the site of cleavage. Some examples of Type IIS restriction enzymes include AlwI, BsaI,
BbsI, BbuI, BsmAI, BsrI, BsmI, BspMI, Earl, Esp3I, FokI, HgaI, HphI, LguI, MboII, Mn1I,
Plel, SapI, SchI, SfaNi, and the like. Many of these restriction endonucleases are available
commercially and are well known to those skilled in the art.
[0063]          As used herein, the term "genomic targeting sequence" refers to a nucleotide
sequence that is present in the genome of a host cell at a site at which a polynucleotide of the
invention is to be inserted by host cell mediated homologous recombination. The terms
"upstream genomic targeting sequence" and "downstream genomic targeting sequence" refer
to genomic targeting sequences that are located upstream and downstream of each other in
the genome of a host cell. An example of a genomic targeting sequence is a locus.
[0064]          As used herein, the term "chromosomal targeting sequence" refers to a
nucleotide sequence that is present in a chromosome of a host cell at a site at which a
polynucleotide of the invention is to be inserted by host cell mediated homologous
recombination. The terms "upstream chromosomal targeting sequence" and "downstream
chromosomal targeting sequence" refer to chromosomal targeting sequences that are located
upstream and downstream of each other in a chromosome of a host cell. An example of a
genomic targeting sequence is a locus.
[00651          The term "codon substitution" refers to a process of altering a polynucleotide
sequence by changing one or more of the codons encoding one or more amino acids within a
polypeptide, though without altering the sequence of the encoded polypeptide.
         5.2    Methods of Defining a Nucleic Acid Construct
[0066]          In one aspect, provided herein is an exemplary genotype specification
language for describing nucleic acid requests. These nucleic acid requests are interpreted and
expanded into a plurality of component nucleic acids in a contiguous arrangement. The
genotype specification language (hereafter called GSL) is a formal system for precisely
defining a desired genotype with concise and efficient notation. It is designed to be simple
for the user to specify, and easily interpreted by a computer. The language enables a
molecular biologist to communicate a particular engineering construct, and can be compiled
                                                23

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
in a fashion analogous to computer software, down to the raw material needed to assemble
the desired construct. The language can easily interface with graphical tools for input or
output, enabling transmission of ideas between biologists and tools. Importantly, the
language formally separates definitions within the language from the implementation of
assembly strategies, thereby remaining agnostic to the assembly method, yet it enables
parallel development of assembly tools around the specification.
[00671          Provided in Table 1 are four hierarchical levels of the exemplary language.
Conceptually, the language of each level is translated into that of the next level down.
Table 1. Hierarchical design languages
Language Level        Description
Level 3               An abstract design that allows leeway for the compiler to choose parts.
                      For example, a strong constitutive promoter may be specified rather than
                      a particular promoter choice.
Level 2               Specifies concrete components to be used but may allow considerable
                      freedom for the compiler to rearrange the parts during construction.
Level 1               Can be translated unambiguously to a level 0 sequence assuming
                      conventions.
Level 0               Literal DNA sequence, may contain ambiguous bases.
[0068]          GSL is defined as a formal Look-Ahead Left to Right, Rightmost derivation
(LALR) grammar that implements the language hierarchy framework. The grammar allows
the different language levels to coexist. In some embodiments, the language levels are mixed
together in an input file.
                5.2.1   Level 1
[0069]          Many different methods of implementing level 1 in such a manner that it can
be parsed without human intervention by a computer will be appreciated, For instance, in one
implementation of a level 1 design, each input line describes a DNA construct. As such, the
lines represent a delimited list of parts that are concatenated to produce the end result, level 0
DNA. The deliminator between DNA constructs may be a line feed, semicolon, or any other
suitable deliminator. When deliminators other than a line feed or carriage return are used,
multiple DNA constructs may be represented in the same line. In some embodiments, the
deliminator is one of ASCII codes 1 through 255. In some embodiments, when an ASCII
code is selected as the deliminator, that code is not used to describe the constructs. For
example, in embodiments in which ASCII code 37 (%) is chosen as the deliminator, the
percent sign (%) is reserved for use as the deliminator and is not used to describe the DNA
constructs. However, in some embodiments, this is not the case. For instance, in some
embodiments the deliminator can be overridden by preceding the deliminator with another
                                                 24

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
predetermined character such as "A". Thus, when       A%  occurs, it is interpreted as "", but
when "%" occurs without the      "A" preceding it, the "%" is interpreted as a deliminator. In
some embodiments the deliminator is selected from ASCII characters 128 through 255. In
some embodiments, the deliminator is selected from ASCII 123-127. In some embodiments,
the deliminator is selected from ASCII 123-127. In some embodiments, the deliminator is a
combination of selected ASCII character codes (e.g., a predetermined pair of ASCII codes
such as "%$).
[00701           The individual parts may be defined by reference to a library part ID, but more
typically, will be specified relative to a wild type gene in a namespace, for example, the
alcohol dehydrogenase promoter pADHI in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
[00711           GSL provides a number of pre- and postfix operators for slicing and
modifying DNA sequences. This is the essence of defining novel "parts" from existing
genetic material. The prefix operators specify particular parts of a locus from a default
organism gene namespace. Alternative gene name spaces may be accessed with a namespace
qualifier. The postfix operators can be used on both wild type genes and existing parts in
libraries to derive new parts. In-line DNA sequences can be specified as nucleotides or
peptide sequences. Table 1 provides examples of different operators, and Table 3 provides
examples of parts specification syntax. In Table 1, it will be appreciated that the "Operator",
or column 1 symbol value listed, is merely exemplary and that the symbol value can be
mapped onto any ASCII value or combination of ASCII values. Moreover, it will be
appreciated that the GSL disclosed herein can have more operators than shown in Table 1.
Additionally, in some embodiments, the GSL disclosed herein has any two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, or nine, or ten of the operators disclosed in Table 1. Additionally, in some
embodiments, the GSL disclosed herein has any two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, or
nine, or ten of the operators disclosed in Table 1 in addition to one or more additional
operators not listed in Table 1.
Table 1. GSL language operators
Operator Operator Type            Function                                   Example
g             Prefix              Gene locus                                  gADHI
p             Prefix              Promoter part                              pERGI
t             Prefix              Terminator part                            tERGI
o             Prefix              Open reading frame                         oERG1O
f             Prefix              Fusible ORF, no stop codon                  fERGI
m             Prefix              mRNA (ORF + Terminator)                    mERGI
[]            Postfix             Specifies a sub slice of a gene locus       gADH1[1:400]
$             Postfix             Amino acid mutation                        oADH1$A147E
*             Postfix             Nucleotide mutation                        oADH1*G1OC
                                                 25

     WO 2013/075049                                                                PCT/US2012/065708
                Prefix                Invert sequence                            !pERG1O
                Infix                 Namespace qualifier                        Sc.pERGI
[0072]               In Table 2, it will be appreciated that the "Part Specification", or column 1
symbol value listed, is merely exemplary and that the symbol value can be mapped onto any
ASCII value or combination of ASCII values. Moreover, it will be appreciated that the GSL
disclosed herein can have more part specifications than shown in Table 2. Additionally, in
some embodiments, the GSL disclosed herein has any two, three, four, or five of the part
specifications disclosed in Table 2. Additionally, in some embodiments, the GSL disclosed
herein has any two, three, four, or five of the part specifications disclosed in Table 2 in
addition to one or more additional part specifications not listed in Table 1.
        Table 2. GSL part specification syntax
Part                     Part Type             Example
Specification
                         External              @B. BBaT9002
                         reference
                         Alias                 @myPreviouslyDefinedParts
###                      Virtual marker        uHO ; ### ; dHO
 ~       _Heterology                  block    gERG1O[1:100a]; ~; gERG1O[1Ola:-1E]
/../                     DNA sequence          /GATTACA/
/$../                    Protein sequence      /$MVRSLT/
                     5.2.2   Level 2
[0073]               The level 1 operators efficiently describe a literal linear sequence of DNA
elements. Though this can be useful for a very specific design, the majority of designs do not
require a perfectly constrained linear sequence, and a higher level specification allows for
computer assistance in finding the optimal part layout. Convenient shortcuts for commonly
used higher level designs may also be utilized.              Table 3 provides exemplary operators
associated with level 2. The presence of a level 2 operator indicates to the compiler that a
level 2 construct is being specified. Though relatively simple, these operators allow fairly
sophisticated manipulation of gene expression. Combining a deletion with promoter
expression allows overexpression of a construct. For example, deleting the HO locus and
putting a strong promoter in front of ERG 10 can be written as HO^; pGAL1>mERG10. More
than one promoter/gene combination may be combined, e.g. HO^; pGALJ>mERGJO;
pGALJO>mERGJ3. In fact, expression of an existing wild type gene may be titrated by
omitting the explicit locus and replacing the native ERG10 promoter using pADH1>gER G10.
                                                     26

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
Whereas the level 1 $ operator is used for introducing amino acid changes, the level 2 $
operator applied to a locus generates an entire construct for engineering an in vivo allele
swap.
[0074]           In Table 3, it will be appreciated that the "Operator", or column 1 symbol
value listed, is merely exemplary and that the symbol value can be mapped onto any ASCII
value or combination of ASCII values. Moreover, it will be appreciated that the GSL
disclosed herein can have more operators than shown in Table 3.
                 Table 3. Level 2 language operators
Operator                              Function                       Example
                                      Promoter driving gene          pADH1>gERG10
A                                     Gene deletion (delta)          gHOA
$                                     Allele swap                    gADH1$A147E
                 5.2.3  Level 3
[00751           Level 3 extends the level 2 language and introduces more abstract
specifications. The level 2 language allows the compiler some flexibility in design and
layout. The Level 3 language in comparison gives the compiler flexibility in choice of parts
used to implement the design. In the simplest form, the user may choose an abstract
promoter design overexpressing a gene at a neutral locus, for example gNeutralA      ;
pStrong>mERG1O. A more complex request may target overexpression of an entire
pathway. Level 3 examples, in accordance with one embodiment, are provided below.
//  Abstract promoters
pStrong > gADH1
pWeak > gADH1
gNeutral^ ; p[eth,high]> mERG10
//  Generate sets of alternatives
titrate gADH1
overexpress gADH1
// Pathway engineering
pipline from=gPAN6 ; to= gCAB5                 ; expsys=gal
//  Generate combinatorial sets
50 *    ( pl    > mACS2    ; p2    > mADH6     ; p3   > mERG10    ; p4   > mERG12
doe   100 from
        for pl in [pFBA1 ; pHXT3 ; pTDH1 ; pGAL1 ; pGAL3] do
                 for p2 in [pFBA1 ; pHXT3 ; pTDH1 ; pGAL1 ; pGAL3]                     do
                         for locus in [gHO ; gNDT80; gBUD9] do
                                 locusA ; pl > mACS2 ; p2>mADH6
                                                 27

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
// Generate mevalonate pathway overexpression designs
let THMGR = /ATGG/ {#fuse }; gHMG1[1586:~200E]
pipline expsys=gal ; 1*mERG10 ; 1*mERG13 ; 1*mERG12                         ; 3*@THMGR;
         4*FS ; 1*mIDIl 1*mERG20 ; 1*mMVD1 ; 1*ERG9
                 5.2.4   Domain specific languages
[00761           In addition to the specific language described herein, alternative languages for
specific domains may also be utilized. These are typically simpler languages designed for a
specific task. In one exemplary embodiment, these languages are included inline in GSL
between <@ and @> delimiters. In one example, the "Roughage" language is used for
simple gene overexpression tasks inline. Provided below is an example of roughage code
that is translated into pure GSL as part of the compilation process in accordance with one
embodiment of the disclosure.
// Level 1 GSL
uERG9 ; ### ; pMET3         ; gERG9[1:~5001
/7 Inline roughage
<@
HOA
NDT80^ [mKANA]
pHXT3>ERG20 [mKANA] ::pHXT4>ERG19
pYNG2>ADH2 [mURA3]
HAP4A [mURA3] ::pHXT1>ERG7: :pHXT5>ERG19
HO^: :ADH1<pGAL10-pGAL1>ADH2 [mURA3]
pYNG1>ADH7[mTRP1]
pYNG2>ADH1 [mKANA]
@>
                 5.2.5   Implementation
[00771           In some embodiments, the GSL language is implemented using the F#
language (Microsoft) as a traditional compiler accepting a text file description written in GSL
and targeting a number of different output formats. In some embodiments, the language is
separated from a particular DNA assembly strategy. In some embodiments, the method of
DNA assembly is that described in U.S. Patent No. 8,221,982, the contents of which are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The compiler can generate an XML based
format that can be passed directly to the computer-aided manufacturing system described
therein. Alternatively a user may target reagents for gene synthesis or primers for a custom
PCR assembly strategy.
[0078]           An exemplary implementation will not be described. In this nonlimiting
exemplary implementation, the compiler workflow follows a traditional pattern of parsing
input syntax and grammar using the fsyacc and fslex tools from the F# language. From here,
the parse tree is examined for any language elements at level II or above. If these elements
                                                 28

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
are detected, the compiler elects it to use a rewriting strategy for the highest level detected.
For example, if level 3 elements are present, the input GSL is rewritten to translate these into
level 2 constructs. The resulting output GSL is iteratively processed by the compiler until an
input stream of level 1 GSL is reached. A user may wish to inspect the intermediate steps
and can edit the input before proceeding if they wish to override a particular compiler
decision. Once a pure level 1 input is achieved, the compiler proceeds to realize concrete
DNA definitions for each part, checking that the gene names are valid names within
annotation spaces or part spaces. This may require retrieval of DNA parts from registries, for
example, via Synthetic Biology Open Language (SBOL), or reverse translation of protein
sequences into codon optimized DNA. The majority of parts will come from genome
definitions, which consist of a fasta sequence of chromosomes with gene locations marked up
in, for example, a Saccharomyces genome database tabular reference format. A genomic part
may be defined with flexible ends using the ~ slice notation, for example gADHI [~-500:-1].
In some embodiments, the most generous definition of a part is retrieved first; however,
retrieving the longest possible sequence as the final part definition in these cases will depend
on the assembly strategy. Finally, any reagents necessary for construction are generated. In
one example, For the workflow described in United States Patent No. 8,221,982, the level 1
parts are packaged into one or two piece polynucleotides, flanked by linker sequences that
will enable the polynucleotides to be joined into stitches using overlapping linkers. Finally,
those stitches can be combined into larger elements that will be transformed into the target
genome/chassis. In some embodiments, users will construct their component polynucleotides
("RABITs") from one or two PCR products, and the compiler generates all of the necessary
primers for creating these pieces from genomic DNA. This is a relatively complex, task as
the user may make edits to the underlying gene during the construction process, for example
introducing a leading tag or internal mutation. The primer design also takes advantage of the
parts with flexible endings to locate the primers optimally. DNA synthesis is considerably
simpler from a design perspective, requiring just the boundaries of any underlying reagents to
be selected. For example users may choose to assemble a design from 500bp synthetic
pieces.
[00791          In some embodiments, pragmas at the line level and individual part level may
be specified. For example, the #linkers directive allows users to have fine-grained control
over the linker sets that are used in a design. Table 5 provides examples of different in-line
pragmas.
Table 5. In-line pragmas
                                                29

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
   Pragma                                            Description
#fuse           when used between two adjacent DNA slices, the fuse directive requests that a
                seamless construct be made rather than the incorporation of linkers.
#name           when used in line, this specifies a custom name for the given part. In the
                absence of a #name directive, an auto generated name will be used.
#refgenome      When used in line, this directs the compiler to generate any DNA sequences
                from a specific reference genome that must be defined in the lib directory of
                the compiler. This enables particular parts in an assembly to be built from a
                custom genome definition.
#dnasrc         This directive gives a hint for the actual physical source for the DNA, and is
                passed through to the construction phase to assist construction of the part. For
                example, a custom synthesized gene may need to come from a specific location
                rather than a general genomic data source.
#rabitstart     When an in-line DNA sequence is used, the default is to locate this at the
                center of a component polynucleotide (rabbit), using internal primers to edit the
                sequence and introduce the intended DNA sequence. If the user prefers that
                the introduced DNA sequence be at the five prime end of a rabbit, then the
                #rabitstart in-line directive is used. For example, to introduce a 5' methionine
                to a truncated protein sequence, the user would write /$M/ {#rabitstart}
                gYFG1[22:-iE]
#rabitend       Similar to #rabitstart, this directive is used when an in-line sequence should be
                constructed in the 3' terminal primer of a rabbit rather than the default in-line
                strategy.
                 5.2.6   Primer Generation
[0080]           Primer generation may utilize any number of optimization schemes known in
the art. For example, the primer can be designed to have one end anchored, and the other end
is selected to target a particular melting temperature with a preference for a GC base in the
final residue where reasonable. In another scenario, the primer start and end may float, and
dynamic programming is used to select an optimal start and end with tradeoffs for location,
melting temperature, avoiding low complexity DNA sequence, and the like. These
parameters may vary depending on application, but typically oligos less than or equal to 60
bases in length with a melting temperature around 60 degrees Celsius are targeted. Another
application that can be used to design a heterology block designs a sandwich of two
overlapping oligos that introduce a heterologous DNA sequence in between two PCR
products. This can require optimization for two divergent PCR melting points and an internal
hybridization melting temperature.
                 5.2.7 Data services
                                                  30

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[00811           The final annotated assembly containing parts, primers, names and full DNA
definitions may be translated into many different formats, e.g., SBOL, Genbank, CX5,
fasta, and a flat file format, but this is easily extended to new formats. The GSL compiler is
designed to operate as standalone with a minimal set of data. Each reference genome will
require a fasta sequence, a set of gene coordinates (currently specified in an SGD feature-like
format with zero-based coordinates), a codon usage table, and any organism specific
engineering parameters such as the preferred length of flanking sequence for homologous
recombination. Additionally, other data services from parts registries can be used, for
example, the SBOL part registry.
                 5.2.8    Exemplary expansion of a nucleic acid request
[0082]           Provided below is an exemplary serial expansion of a simple GSL design into
parts required for PCR assembly. This is a common design pattern used for introducing
mutations into genes. The initial input is shown in step 1.
[0083]            Step1: Input GSL
[0084]           The input is a request to replace alanine in position 100 of the ADHI gene
with aspartic acid.
gADH1$A100E
[00851           Step 2: Expansion to generate a construct name
[0086]           The first rewrite introduces a naming pragma directive so that subsequent
rewriting steps can refer to the original construct name when generating part names.
#name gADH1$A100E
gADH1$A100E
[00871           Step 3: Translate the mutation request into an engineering design
[0088]           The next rewrite lays out the basic pieces required for introducing a mutation
into the gene. The mutation is introduced as an in-line DNA sequence flanked by enough
upstream sequence to allow homologous recombination and downstream sequence to reach
the end of the gene with a marker introduced in the three prime region after the terminator. A
heterology block is requested using the ~ operator to further rewrite the upstream sequence.
#name gADH1$A100E
gADH1[--403:297] {#name gADH1$A100E.hb} ;-                      ;/GAG/   ;gADH1[301:-200E]
 ;### ;gADH1[1E:-800E] {#name gADH1$A100E.3ds}
                                                  31

   WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[00891           Step 4: Rewrite the heterology block
[0090]           The heterology block is used to adjust the DNA sequence of a coding region
without altering the translated protein. This is intended to encourage homologous
recombination to occur upstream of the mutation site rather than between the mutation and
the 3' end of the gene. Constraints to be imposed may include: maximizing differences with
the original DNA sequence, avoiding any sequence that would be difficult to synthesize, e.g.,
GGGG, avoiding any infrequent codons, and where possible, prefering GC rich sequences
that will anneal efficiently if primer based assembly strategies are used. In this iteration, the
heterology block has been replaced with a concrete DNA sequence and the boundary of the
upstream flanking sequence has been adjusted accordingly. The resulting GSL contains only
level 1 parts and may be translated into concrete reagents without further expansion.
#name gADH1$A100E
gADH1[--403S:261S]{           #name gADH1$A100E.hb
 };/TATGCGGGCATAAAGTGGCTCAATGGCAGCTGCATGGAG/                   ; gADH1 [301S: -20 0E] ;###
 ;gADH1[1E:~800E]{         #name gADH1$A100E.3ds
                 5.2.9  Output
[0091]           The corresponding output for an exemplary construction, for example, on the
assembly platform described in U.S. Patent No. 8,221,982, is shown below. The
specification serially defines the individual component polynucleotides (RABITs) in the
rabitSpec sections. RABITs have upstream and downstream primers and may optionally
include internal "quickchange" primer sets that further break the RABIT into two separate
PCR products. The RABITs are arranged into larger stitches using the stitchSpec sections,
and finally, two stitches are combined in vivo (via homologous recombination in a host, e.g.,
yeast cell) to form the final "megastitch" construct.
<?xml version="1.O" encoding='utf-8'?>
<ryseComponentRequest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
xmlns="http://thumper.amyris.local">
   <rabitSpec name='gADH1$A147E.hb' breed="X" upstreamLink="O"
downstreamLink="2" direction="FWD" id='R1003" creator="platt">
      <dnaElementSpec speciesVariant="CENPK2">
        <upstreamPrimerSpec>
           <tail>GACGGCACGGCCACGCGTTTAAACCGCC</tail>               (SEQ ID NO: 1)
           <body>GGGTATCTCGAAGCACACGAAAC</body>             (SEQ ID NO: 2)
        </upstreamPrimerSpec>
        <downstreamPrimerSpec>
           <tail>AGGTCCGCCGGCGTTGGACGAGCG</tail>              (SEQ ID NO: 3)
           <body>ATTTGCTCGGCATGCCGGTAG</body>             (SEQ ID NO: 4)
        </downstreamPrimerSpec>
                                                32

   WO 2013/075049                                            PCT/US2012/065708
<dnaSequence>GGGTATCTCGAAGCACACGAAACTTTTTCCTTCCTTCATTCACGCACACTACTCTCTAATGA
GCAACGGTATACGGCCTTCCTTCCAGTTACTTGAATTTGAAATAAAAAAAAGTTTGCTGTCTTGCTATCAAGTAT
AAATAGACCTGCAATTATTAATCTTTTGTTTCCTCGTCATTGTTCTCGTTCCCTTTCTTCCTTGTTTCTTTTTCT
GCACAATATTTCAAGCTATACCAAGCATACAATCAACTATCTCATATACAATGTCTATCCCAGAAACTCAAAAAG
GTGTTATCTTCTACGAATCCCACGGTAAGTTGGAATACAAAGATATTCCAGTTCCAAAGCCAAAGGCCAACGAAT
TGTTGATCAACGTTAAATACTCTGGTGTCTGTCACACTGACTTGCACGCTTGGCACGGTGACTGGCCATTGCCAG
TTAAGCTACCATTAGTCGGTGGTCACGAAGGTGCCGGTGTCGTTGTCGGCATGGGTGAAAACGTTAAGGGCTGGA
AGATCGGTGACTACGCCGGTATCAAATGGTTGAACGGTTCTTGTATGGCCTGTGAATACTGTGAATTGGGTAACG
AATCCAACTGTCCTCACGCTGACTTGTCTGGTTACACCCACGACGGTTCTTTCCAACAATACGCTACCGCTGACG
CTGTTCAAGCGGCCCATATCCCCCAGGGCACGGATCTCGAGCAAGTCGCCCCCATCTTGTGTGCTGGTATCACCG
TCTACAAGGCTTTGAAGTCTGCTAACTTGATGGCCGGTCACTGGGTTGCTATCTCCGGTGCTGCTGGTGGTCTAG
GTTCTTTGGCTGTTCAATACGCCAAGGCTATGGGTTACAGAGTCTTGGGTATTGACGGTGGTGAAGGTAAGGAAG
AATTATTCAGATCCATCGGTGGTGAAGTCTTCATTGACTTCACTAAGGAAAAGGACATTGTCGGTGCTGTTCTAA
AGGCCACTGACGGTGGTGCTCACGGTGTCATCAACGTTTCCGTTTCCGAAGCCGCTATTGAAGCTTCTACCAGAT
ACGTTAGAGCTAACGGTACCACCGTTTTGGTCGGTATGCCAGCTGGTGCCAAGTGTTGTTCTGATGTCTTCAACC
AAGTCGTCAAGTCCATCTCTATTGTTGGTTCTTACGTCGGTAACAGAGCTGACACCAGAGAAGCTTTGGACTTCT
TCGCCAGAGGTTTGGTCAAGTCTCCAATCAAGGTTGTCGGCTTGTCTACCTTGCCAGAAATTTACGAAAAGATGG
AAAAGGGTCAAATCGTTGGTAGATACGTTGTTGACACTTCTAAATAAGCGAATTTCTTATGATTTATGATTTTTA
TTATTAAATAAGTTATAAAAAAAATAAGTGTATACAAATTTTAAAGTGACTCTTAGGTTTTAAAACGAAAATTCT
TATTCTTGAGTAACTCTTTCCTGTAGGTCAGGTTGCTTTCTCAGGTATAGCATGAGGTCGCTCTTATTGACCACA
CCTCTACCGGCATGCCGAGCAAAT</dnaSequence>     (SEQ ID NO: 5)
       <quickChangeSpec>
         <forwardPrimerSpec>
            <tail>GCGGCCCATATCCCCCAGGGCACGGATCTCGAG</tail>   (SEQ ID  NO:   6)
            <body>CAAGTCGCCCCCATCTTGTG</body>   (SEQ ID NO: 7)
         </forwardPrimerSpec>
         <reversePrimerSpec>
            <tail>CTCGAGATCCGTGCCCTGGGGGATATGGGCCGC</tail>   (SEQ ID  NO:   8)
            <body>TTGAACAGCGTCAGCGGTAG</body>    (SEQ ID NO: 9)
         </reversePrimerSpec>
       </quickChangeSpec>
     </dnaElementSpec>
   </rabitSpec>
   <rabitSpec name="URA3LO lof2' breed="M" upstreamLink="2"
downstreamLink="9" direction="FWD" id='R1004" creator="platt' />
   <rabitSpec name="gADH1$A147E.3ds" breed="X" upstreamLink="O"
downstreamLink="2" direction="REV" id='R1005" creator="platt">
     <dnaElementSpec speciesVariant="CENPK2">
       <upstreamPrimerSpec>
         <tail>GACGGCACGGCCACGCGTTTAAACCGCC</tail>    (SEQ ID NO: 1)
         <body>TCCTGTATCTATGCAATTGCAATCCAACTAC</body>    (SEQ ID NO:   11)
       </upstreamPrimerSpec>
       <downstreamPrimerSpec>
         <tail>AGGTCCGCCGGCGTTGGACGAGCG</tail>    (SEQ ID NO: 12)
         <body>GCGAATTTCTTATGATTTATGATTTTTATTATTAAA</body>   (SEQ ID  NO:   13)
       </downstreamPrimerSpec>
<dnaSequence>GCGAATTTCTTATGATTTATGATTTTTATTATTAAATAAGTTATAAAAAAAATAAGTGTATA
CAAATTTTAAAGTGACTCTTAGGTTTTAAAACGAAAATTCTTATTCTTGAGTAACTCTTTCCTGTAGGTCAGGTT
GCTTTCTCAGGTATAGCATGAGGTCGCTCTTATTGACCACACCTCTACCGGCATGCCGAGCAAATGCCTGCAAAT
CGCTCCCCATTTCACCCAATTGTAGATATGCTAACTCCAGCAATGAGTTGATGAATCTCGGTGTGTATTTTATGT
CCTCAGAGGACAACACCTGTTGTAATCGTTCTTCCACACGGATCCACAGCCTAGCCTTCAGTTGGGCTCTATCTT
CATCGTCATTCATTGCATCTACTAGCCCCTTACCTGAGCTTCAAGACGTTATATCGCTTTTATGTATCATGATCT
TATCTTGAGATATGAATACATAAATATATTTACTCAAGTGTATACGTGCATGCTTTTTTTACGGCAGCATTTTTT
TTTCAACTCTGATCGCCCCTTTACTGCTCCCTCCGCCCAAATTCCATTGCAGTTCAAATGTATACTGAAAAAAAC
CCCATTGCTATTGTTAAACAGTGAACTCTCTTTTTGCCCAATAATAACATTATAACAAGTAACTACCAGCACCAT
AACACCGTGTCCTATCCTGGTATTAATTACTACTTGAAGAACGACTACATCGCTTTTTGCAACTACAATTAGAAC
GCTCCGCCCCTTCCTTTTGACGTCGTATAAGTGTAGTTGGATTGCAATTGCATAGATACAGGA</dnaSequenc
e>   (SEQ ID NO: 14)
     </dnaElementSpec>
                                      33

    WO 2013/075049                                                    PCT/US2012/065708
   </rabitSpec>
   <rabitSpec name="URA3LO 2of2' breed="M" upstreamLink="2"
downstreamLink="9" direction="REV" id="R1006" creator="platt' />
   <stitchSpec id="S1001" creator="platt">
      <rabitRef rabitSpec="R1003" />
      <rabitRef rabitSpec="R1004" />
   </stitchSpec>
   <stitchSpec id="S1002" creator="platt">
      <rabitRef rabitSpec="R1005" />
      <rabitRef rabitSpec="R1006" />
   </stitchSpec>
   <megastitchSpec id="M1000" creator="platt">
      <stitchRef stitchSpec='S1001" />
      <stitchRef stitchSpec='S1002" />
   </megastitchSpec>
</ryseComponentRequest>
[00921         The same input GSL can be used to create a Genbank format that is suitable
for importing into the ApE tool ("A Plasmid Editor," created by Wayne Davis, University of
Utah). The output inside ApE is shown below.
LOCUS                        ape ape output 4042 bp ds-DNA         linear           5-JUL
2012
DEFINITION
ACCESSION
VERSION
SOURCE
   ORGANISM
COMMENT
COMMENT        ApEinfo:methylated:1
FEATURES                  Location/Qualifiers
       miscfeature        1..28
                          /label=Linker_0
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=#FF0000
                          /ApEinforevcolor=#D00000
       misc feature       29..678
                          /label=gADH1[~-403S:261S]
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=#0000FF
                          /ApEinforevcolor=#0000F0
       miscfeature        679..717
                          /label=TATGCGGGCATAAAGTGGCTCAATGGCAGCTGCATGGAG
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=green
                          /ApEinforevcolor=green
       misc feature       718..1666
                          /label=gADH1[301S:~200E]
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=#0000FF
                          /ApEinforevcolor=#0000F0
       misc feature       1667..1690
                          /label=Linker_2
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=#FF0000
                          /ApEinforevcolor=#D00000
       miscfeature        1691..3190
                          /label=URA3 marker
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=yellow
                          /ApEinforevcolor=yellow
       misc feature       complement(3191..3214)
                          /label=Linker_2
                          /ApEinfofwdcolor=#FF0000
                                            34

   WO 2013/075049                                             PCT/US2012/065708
                       /ApEinforevcolor=#D00000
     misc feature      3215..4014
                       /label=gADH1[1E:~800E]
                       /ApEinfofwdcolor=#0000FF
                       /ApEinforevcolor=#0000F0
     miscfeature       complement(4015..4042)
                       /label=Linker_0
                       /ApEinfofwdcolor=#FF0000
                       /ApEinforevcolor=#D00000
ORIGIN
         1 GACGGCACGG CCACGCGTTT AAACCGCCTC TTTTCTCTCT CCCCCGTTGT TGTCTCACCA
        61 TATCCGCAAT GACAAAAAAA TGATGGAAGA CACTAAAGGA AAAAATTAAC GACAAAGACA
       121  GCACCAACAG ATGTCGTTGT TCCAGAGCTG  ATGAGGGGTA TCTCGAAGCA  CACGAAACTT
       181  TTTCCTTCCT TCATTCACGC ACACTACTCT  CTAATGAGCA ACGGTATACG  GCCTTCCTTC
       241  CAGTTACTTG AATTTGAAAT AAAAAAAAGT  TTGCTGTCTT GCTATCAAGT  ATAAATAGAC
       301  CTGCAATTAT TAATCTTTTG TTTCCTCGTC  ATTGTTCTCG TTCCCTTTCT  TCCTTGTTTC
       361  TTTTTCTGCA CAATATTTCA AGCTATACCA  AGCATACAAT CAACTATCTC  ATATACAATG
       421  TCTATCCCAG AAACTCAAAA AGGTGTTATC  TTCTACGAAT CCCACGGTAA  GTTGGAATAC
       481  AAAGATATTC CAGTTCCAAA GCCAAAGGCC  AACGAATTGT TGATCAACGT  TAAATACTCT
       541 GGTGTCTGTC ACACTGACTT GCACGCTTGG CACGGTGACT GGCCATTGCC AGTTAAGCTA
       601 CCATTAGTCG GTGGTCACGA AGGTGCCGGT GTCGTTGTCG GCATGGGTGA AAACGTTAAG
       661 GGCTGGAAGA TCGGTGACTA TGCGGGCATA AAGTGGCTCA ATGGCAGCTG CATGGAGTGT
       721 GAATACTGTG  AATTGGGTAA CGAATCCAAC TGTCCTCACG CTGACTTGTC TGGTTACACC
       781 CACGACGGTT CTTTCCAACA ATACGCTACC GCTGACGCTG TTCAAGCCGC TCACATTCCT
       841 CAAGGTACCG ACTTGGCCCA AGTCGCCCCC ATCTTGTGTG CTGGTATCAC CGTCTACAAG
       901 GCTTTGAAGT CTGCTAACTT GATGGCCGGT CACTGGGTTG CTATCTCCGG TGCTGCTGGT
       961  GGTCTAGGTT CTTTGGCTGT TCAATACGCC  AAGGCTATGG GTTACAGAGT  CTTGGGTATT
     1021   GACGGTGGTG AAGGTAAGGA AGAATTATTC  AGATCCATCG GTGGTGAAGT  CTTCATTGAC
     1081   TTCACTAAGG AAAAGGACAT TGTCGGTGCT  GTTCTAAAGG CCACTGACGG  TGGTGCTCAC
     1141   GGTGTCATCA ACGTTTCCGT TTCCGAAGCC  GCTATTGAAG CTTCTACCAG  ATACGTTAGA
     1201 GCTAACGGTA CCACCGTTTT GGTCGGTATG CCAGCTGGTG CCAAGTGTTG TTCTGATGTC
     1261   TTCAACCAAG TCGTCAAGTC CATCTCTATT  GTTGGTTCTT ACGTCGGTAA  CAGAGCTGAC
     1321   ACCAGAGAAG CTTTGGACTT CTTCGCCAGA  GGTTTGGTCA AGTCTCCAAT  CAAGGTTGTC
     1381   GGCTTGTCTA CCTTGCCAGA AATTTACGAA  AAGATGGAAA AGGGTCAAAT  CGTTGGTAGA
     1441   TACGTTGTTG ACACTTCTAA ATAAGCGAAT  TTCTTATGAT TTATGATTTT  TATTATTAAA
     1501   TAAGTTATAA AAAAAATAAG TGTATACAAA  TTTTAAAGTG ACTCTTAGGT  TTTAAAACGA
     1561   AAATTCTTAT TCTTGAGTAA CTCTTTCCTG  TAGGTCAGGT TGCTTTCTCA  GGTATAGCAT
     1621 GAGGTCGCTC TTATTGACCA CACCTCTACC GGCATGCCGA GCAAATCGCT     CGTCCAACGC
     1681 CGGCGGACCT GTTCATCATC TCATGGATCT GCACATGAAC    AAACACCAGA  GTCAAACGAC
     1741 GTTGAAATTG AGGCTACTGC GCCAATTGAT GACAATACAG    ACGATGATAA  CAAACCGAAG
     1801 TTATCTGATG TAGAAAAGGA TTAAAGATGC TAAGAGATAG    TGATGATATT  TCATAAATAA
     1861   TGTAATTCTA TATATGTTAA TTACCTTTTT  TGCGAGGCAT ATTTATGGTG  AAGGATAAGT
     1921   TTTGACCATC AAAGAAGGTT AATGTGGCTG  TGGTTTCAGG GTCCATAAAG  CTTTTCAATT
     1981   CATCTTTTTT TTTTTTGTTC TTTTTTTTGA  TTCCGGTTTC TTTGAAATTT  TTTTGATTCG
     2041   GTAATCTCCG AGCAGAAGGA AGAACGAAGG  AAGGAGCACA GACTTAGATT  GGTATATATA
     2101   CGCATATGTG GTGTTGAAGA AACATGAAAT  TGCCCAGTAT TCTTAACCCA  ACTGCACAGA
     2161   ACAAAAACCT GCAGGAAACG AAGATAAATC  ATGTCGAAAG CTACATATAA  GGAACGTGCT
     2221   GCTACTCATC CTAGTCCTGT TGCTGCCAAG  CTATTTAATA TCATGCACGA  AAAGCAAACA
     2281   AACTTGTGTG CTTCATTGGA TGTTCGTACC  ACCAAGGAAT TACTGGAGTT  AGTTGAAGCA
     2341   TTAGGTCCCA AAATTTGTTT ACTAAAAACA  CATGTGGATA TCTTGACTGA  TTTTTCCATG
     2401   GAGGGCACAG TTAAGCCGCT AAAGGCATTA  TCCGCCAAGT ACAATTTTTT  ACTCTTCGAA
     2461   GACAGAAAAT TTGCTGACAT TGGTAATACA  GTCAAATTGC AGTACTCTGC  GGGTGTATAC
     2521   AGAATAGCAG AATGGGCAGA CATTACGAAT  GCACACGGTG TGGTGGGCCC  AGGTATTGTT
     2581   AGCGGTTTGA AGCAGGCGGC GGAAGAAGTA  ACAAAGGAAC CTAGAGGCCT  TTTGATGTTA
     2641   GCAGAATTGT CATGCAAGGG CTCCCTAGCT  ACTGGAGAAT ATACTAAGGG  TACTGTTGAC
     2701   ATTGCGAAGA GCGACAAAGA TTTTGTTATC  GGCTTTATTG CTCAAAGAGA  CATGGGTGGA
     2761   AGAGATGAAG GTTACGATTG GTTGATTATG  ACACCCGGTG TGGGTTTAGA  TGACAAGGGA
     2821   GACGCATTGG GTCAACAGTA TAGAACCGTG  GATGATGTGG TCTCTACAGG  ATCTGACATT
     2881   ATTATTGTTG GAAGAGGACT ATTTGCAAAG  GGAAGGGATG CTAAGGTAGA  GGGTGAACGT
     2941   TACAGAAAAG CAGGCTGGGA AGCATATTTG  AGAAGATGCG GCCAGCAAAA  CTAAAAAACT
     3001   GTATTATAAG TAAATGCATG TATACTAAAC  TCACAAATTA GAGCTTCAAT  TTAATTATAT
                                       35

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
       3061   CAGTTATTAC    CCGGGAATCT     CGGTCGTAAT   GATTTCTATA    ATGACGAAAA    AAAAAAAATT
       3121  GGAAAGAAAA     AGCTTCATGG     CCTTTATAAA   AAGGAACTAT    CCAATACCTC    GCCAGAACCA
       3181  AGTAACAGTA     AGGTCCGCCG     GCGTTGGACG   AGCGGCGAAT    TTCTTATGAT    TTATGATTTT
       3241  TATTATTAAA     TAAGTTATAA     AAAAAATAAG   TGTATACAAA    TTTTAAAGTG    ACTCTTAGGT
       3301  TTTAAAACGA     AAATTCTTAT     TCTTGAGTAA   CTCTTTCCTG    TAGGTCAGGT    TGCTTTCTCA
       3361 GGTATAGCAT GAGGTCGCTC TTATTGACCA CACCTCTACC               GGCATGCCGA GCAAATGCCT
       3421  GCAAATCGCT     CCCCATTTCA     CCCAATTGTA   GATATGCTAA    CTCCAGCAAT    GAGTTGATGA
       3481  ATCTCGGTGT     GTATTTTATG     TCCTCAGAGG   ACAACACCTG    TTGTAATCGT    TCTTCCACAC
       3541  GGATCCACAG     CCTAGCCTTC     AGTTGGGCTC   TATCTTCATC    GTCATTCATT    GCATCTACTA
       3601  GCCCCTTACC     TGAGCTTCAA     GACGTTATAT   CGCTTTTATG    TATCATGATC    TTATCTTGAG
       3661  ATATGAATAC     ATAAATATAT     TTACTCAAGT   GTATACGTGC    ATGCTTTTTT    TACGGCAGCA
       3721  TTTTTTTTTC     AACTCTGATC     GCCCCTTTAC   TGCTCCCTCC    GCCCAAATTC    CATTGCAGTT
       3781   CAAATGTATA    CTGAAAAAAA     CCCCATTGCT   ATTGTTAAAC    AGTGAACTCT    CTTTTTGCCC
       3841  AATAATAACA     TTATAACAAG     TAACTACCAG   CACCATAACA    CCGTGTCCTA    TCCTGGTATT
       3901  AATTACTACT     TGAAGAACGA     CTACATCGCT   TTTTGCAACT    ACAATTAGAA    CGCTCCGCCC
       3961   CTTCCTTTTG    ACGTCGTATA     AGTGTAGTTG   GATTGCAATT    GCATAGATAC    AGGAGGCGGT
       4021 TTAAACGCGT GGCCGTGCCG          TC   (SEQ  ID NO:    15)
//
        5.3     Methods of Polynucleotide Assembly
[0093]          In another aspect, the present disclosure provides rapid, robust, and high
throughput methods for the ordered assembly of a plurality of component polynucleotides
into one or more assembled polynucleotides, also termed engineered nucleic acid constructs.
[0094]          The systems, compositions and methods provided herein allow for rapid and
ordered assembly, or "stitching," of component polynucleotides into assembled
polynucleotides, termed engineered nucleic acid constructs. Thus, in one aspect, provided
herein is a user-friendly interface for the computer-implemented design and assembly of
nucleic acid constructs. The systems, compositions and methods provided herein enable a
molecular biologist to engineer a desired nucleic acid construct to introduce into a host cell
genome. In particular, the systems and methods provide for assembly into a single assembled
polynucleotide of a number of functional DNA elements, including but not limited to protein
coding sequences, reporter genes, fluorescent marker coding sequences, promoters,
enhancers, terminators, introns, exons, poly-A tails, multiple cloning sites, nuclear
localization signals, mRNA stabilization signals, selectable markers, integration loci, epitope
tag coding sequences, and degradation signals. The methods can be used for the assembly of
any type of assembled polynucleotide, including but not limited to synthetic genes,
constructs, cloning vectors, expression vectors, chromosomes, genomic integration
constructs, genomes, and DNA libraries. Furthermore, the methods can be used to assemble
DNA segments in a single reaction without need for manipulation and characterization of
intermediate products.
[00951          In some embodiments, the disclosed systems, compositions and methods are
particularly advantageous because they make use of available resources to reduce the cost of
                                                36

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
synthesizing new engineered nucleic acid constructs. For instance, if component
polynucleotides that form part of a desired engineered nucleic acid construct are already
available in a freezer store, an optimal combination of such component polynucleotides are
selected and suitable primer pairs are calculated for the missing portions of the engineered
nucleic acid construct, i.e., those not already available in a freezer store. This minimizes the
design of new primer pairs and subcloning from a genomic library, or other nucleic acid
source, that needs to be performed in order to synthesize the desired engineered nucleic acid
construct thereby increasing the speed at which such an engineered nucleic acid construct
may be made while at the same time reducing costs. Using the disclosed systems,
compositions and methods, a high throughput scheme for making engineered nucleic acid
constructs is realized.
[0096]           In some embodiments, the methods include those disclosed in United States
Patent No. 8,110,360, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some
embodiments, the disclosed methods utilize circular nucleic acid vectors, termed assembly
vectors, that each comprise a DNA segment, D, flanked by an annealable linker sequence
(e.g., LA or LB), a pair of annealable linker sequences (e.g., LA and LB), or an annealable
linker sequence and a primer binding segment (e.g., LA and PB or LB and PA), and a pair of
restriction sites, RA and RB (FIG. 9, where the sites Sapl illustrates both RA and RB).
[00971           Restriction endonuclease digestion of a plurality of assembly vectors at
restriction sites RA and RB generates a plurality of component polynucleotides comprising
the elements 5'-LA-D-3', 5'-D-LB-3', 5'-LA-D-LB-3', 5'-LA-D-PB-3', or 5'-LB-D-PA-3'
(FIG. 10). In the disclosed methods, annealable linker sequences LA and LB provide the
component polynucleotides with complementary termini that are utilized in a splice overlap
extension assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR) to assemble
the component polynucleotides into an assembled polynucleotide with an ordered sequence.
[0098]           In some embodiments, provided herein are methods of assembling a plurality
of component polynucleotides into one or more assembled polynucleotides, comprising the
steps of:
                 (a) digesting an assembly composition with one or more restriction
         endonucleases to generate a components composition, the assembly composition
         comprising:
                          (i)     one or more first nucleic acid molecules, wherein each first
                 nucleic acid molecule is circular and comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a first
                 restriction site RAO, any primer binding segment selected from the group PA,
                                                 37

   WO 2013/075049                                                               PCT/US2012/065708
                 any DNA segment selected from the group Do, an annealable linker sequence
                 LBo, and a second restriction site RBo;
                          (ii)    one or more intermediate nucleic acid molecules wherein each
                 intermediate nucleic acid molecule n is circular and comprises, in a 5' to 3'
                 orientation, a first restriction site RA, a first annealable linker sequence LA,
                 any DNA segment selected from the group D, a second annealable linker
                 sequence LB, and a second restriction site RB, and wherein n represents an
                 integer from one to the number of intermediate nucleic acid molecules; and
                          (iii)   one or more last nucleic acid molecules, wherein each last
                 nucleic acid molecule is circular and comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a first
                 restriction site RAm, an annealable linker sequence LAm, a DNA segment
                 selected from the group Dm, any primer binding segment selected from the
                 group PB, a second restriction site RBm wherein m represents an integer one
                 greater than the number of intermediate nucleic acid molecules; whereupon
                 cleavage of restriction sites RAO through RBm and denaturation of the resulting
                 linear nucleic acid molecules, each annealable linker sequence LB(p_1) is
                 capable of hybridizing to the complement of annealable linker sequence LAp,
                 wherein n is an integer that varies from 1 to (m- 1), wherein p represents an
                 integer from 1 to m, and wherein each group Do,... D.... and Dm consists of
                 one or more DNA segments;
        wherein the one or more restriction endonucleases are capable of cleaving the
        restriction sites RAO through RBm; and
                 (b) contacting the components composition with DNA polymerase,
        deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates and one or more first primers and one or more
        second primers, under conditions suitable for denaturation of the nucleic acid
        molecules, annealing of annealable linker sequence LB(p_1) to annealable linker
        sequence LAp, and extension therefrom; wherein each said first primer is capable of
        hybridizing to one of said primer binding segments selected from the group PA and
        each said second primer is capable of hybridizing to one of said primer binding
        segments selected from the group PB; and subjecting the components composition to
        polymerase chain reaction,
where a polynucleotide is assembled which comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, one DNA
segment selected from each of the groups Do,... D,... and Dm. In the method, p represents
the integers from 1 to m.
                                                   38

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
[0099]           In the example illustrated in FIG. 11, the assembly composition from which
the assembled polynucleotide is generated comprises four input assembly vectors, denoted
"first," "intermediate 1 (inti)," "intermediate 2 (int 2)," and "last." Each assembly vector
comprises a DNA segment flanked either by an annealable linker sequence and a primer
binding segment, or by two annealable linker sequences. Specifically, DNA segment Do is
flanked by 5' primer binding segment PA and 3' annealable linker sequence LBO. DNA
segment Di is flanked by 5' and 3' annealable linker sequences LA 1 and LB 1 , and DNA
segment D 2 is flanked by 5' and 3' annealable linker sequences LA 2 and LB 2 . DNA segment
D 3 is flanked by 3' primer binding segment PB and 5' annealable linker sequence LA 3. The
5'-PA-D-LB-3', 5'-LA-D-LB-3', or 5'-LA-D-PB-3' elements in the assembly vectors are
further flanked by SapI restriction endonuclease sites.
[00100]          In the first step of the assembly reaction shown in FIG. 11, the assembly
composition is digested with SapI, resulting in the excision of component polynucleotides,
comprising the elements 5'-PA-D-LB-3' , 5'LA-D-LB-3', or 5'-LA-D-PB-3', from the
assembly vector backbones into a components composition. Because Sap I is a Type IIS
restriction endonuclease, its recognition site is distal to its cleavage site, and cleavage occurs
outside of its recognition sequence. This property makes Type IIS restriction endonucleases
particularly useful in the assembly of a polynucleotide according to the methods provided
herein, since polynucleotides can be assembled which do not comprise a restriction-site scar,
which may otherwise result from cleavage of restriction sites RA and RB with a non-TypeIIS
restriction endonuclease. Referring to Figure 10, the Type IIS recognition site is 5' of the
corresponding cleavage site for each of RAO, RA, and RAm, and 3' of its cleavage site RBo,
RA, and RAm. Thus, restriction sites RAO through RBm are oriented so that cleavage by one
or more Type IIS restriction endonucleases capable of cleaving RAO through RBm results in
separation of RAO from Do, LBO from RBo, RA, from LA, LB, from RB, RAm from LAm,
and Dm from RBm, wherein resultant linearized nucleic acid molecules comprising Do, LBo,
RA, LB, LAm or Dm do not comprise any of RAo through RBm. As a consequence, the
resulting component polynucleotides do not include any trace of either the restriction
enzyme's recognition or cleavage sites. As a result, the inventive methods of polynucleotide
assembly can be used to transform host cells multiple times without the introduction of
sequence repeats which may cause genetic instability.
[00101]          Subsequently, the restriction endonuclease is optionally inactivated. If
inactivation is desired, any method known in the art for inactivating endonuclease enzyme
activity may be employed, including column or gel-based purification methods. One
                                                 39

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
convenient method is heat inactivation, e.g., at 650 for 20 minutes, which requires little or no
manipulation of the components composition outside of the reaction tube.
[00102]          Assembly of the component polynucleotides into an assembled polynucleotide
is enabled by sequence duplexes formed by overlapping strands of complementary termini
among the component polynucleotides. Specifically, the annealable linker sequences are
designed such that annealable linker sequence LBo can hybridize to the complement of
annealable linker sequence LA 1 , annealable linker sequence LB1 can hybridize to the
complement of annealable linker sequence LA 2, and annealable linker sequence LB 2 can
hybridize to the complement of annealable linker sequence LA 3 . Thus, in the second step of
the assembly reaction, the component polynucleotides are subjected to denaturing conditions
(e.g., heat) to generate single-stranded component polynucleotides, which concomitant with
or subsequent to the denaturation step of the assembly reaction are contacted with a
thermostable DNA polymerase and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates.
[00103]          The thermostable DNA polymerase can be any thermostable DNA polymerase
deemed suitable by those of skill in the art. Thermostable DNA polymerases suitable for use
in the present methods include but are not limited to Thermus thermophilus (Tth) DNA
polymerase, Thermus aquaticus(Taq) DNA polymerase, Thermotoga neopolitana(Tne)
DNA polymerase, Thermotoga maritima (Tma) DNA polymerase, Thermococcus litoralis
(Tli or VENT TM) DNA polymerase, Pyrococcusfuriosus(Pfu or DEEPVENT TM) DNA
polymerase, Pyrococcus woosii (Pwo) DNA polymerase, Bacillus sterothermophilus(Bst)
DNA polymerase, Sulfolobus acidocaldarius(SAC) DNA polymerase, Thermoplasma
acidophilum (Tac) DNA polymerase, Thermusflavus (Tfl/Tub) DNA polymerase, Thermus
ruber (Tru) DNA polymerase, Thermus brockianus (DYNAZYME TM ) DNA polymerase,
Methanobacteriumthermoautotrophicum(Mth) DNA polymerase, and mutants, variants, and
derivatives thereof. Thermostable DNA polymerases having high fidelity (e.g., proofreading
properties) and low error rates are preferred. In certain embodiments, the DNA polymerase is
PHUSION TMDNA Polymerase (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA). In other embodiments,
the DNA Polymerase is PFUULTRA TM II Fusion DNA Polymerase (Strategene / Agilent, La
Jolla, California).
[00104]          The assembly reaction is then subjected to conditions that allow for strand
elongation from the 3'-hydroxyl portions of the overlapping annealable linker sequences,
during which the thermostable DNA polymerase fills in the portion between the overlapping
annealable linker sequences. The assembly reaction is subjected to a limited number of
repeating cycles of denaturation / annealing / extension (e.g., for 5-15 cycles) during which a
                                               40

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
substantial amount of double-stranded assembled polynucleotides are formed. During this
cycling, the component polynucleotides act as both primers and template to generate a full
length template for the assembled polynucleotide. In certain embodiments, the annealing and
extension steps of the PCR can both be performed at 72 'C.
[001051         In contrast to the annealable linker sequences LA and LB, the primer binding
segments PA and PB are designed to not overlap with each other or any of the annealable
linker sequences or DNA segments, but rather serve as binding sites for primers used to
amplify the full length assembled polynucleotide. Thus, in steps 4 and 5 of the assembly
reaction, primers complementary to primer binding segments PA and PB are added, and the
composition is subjected to traditional PCR amplification conditions. The PCR amplification
conditions can be any PCR amplification conditions deemed suitable by those of skill in the
art, including those described in PCR Technology: Principlesand Applicationsfor DNA
Amplification, ed. HA Erlich, Stockton Press, New York, N.Y. (1989); PCR Protocols:A
Guide to Methods and Applications, eds. Innis, Gelfland, Snisky, and White, Academic Press,
San Diego, Calif. (1990); Mattila et al. (1991) Nucleic Acids Res. 19: 4967; Eckert, K. A. and
Kunkel, T. A. (1991) PCR Methods and Applications 1: 17; and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,202 and
4,965,188, each of which are incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments, the
PCR step of the assembly reaction comprises about 35 cycles of denaturation, annealing, and
extension in the presence of primers complementary to primer binding segments PA and PB.
In certain embodiments, the annealing and extension steps of the PCR can both be performed
at 720. However, one of skill in the art will understand that optimal conditions for successful
amplification will depend on the thermostable DNA polymerase and the annealable linker
sequences utilized, and these conditions may be adjusted accordingly.
[00106]         Optionally, the assembled polynucleotide can be purified by any technique
apparent to one of skill in the art, e.g., gel electrophoresis purification methods and used for a
variety of purposes. For example, the assembled polynucleotide can be inserted into an
expression vector backbone for sequence verification.
[001071         In other embodiments, the systems and methods also provide for the assembly
of an assembled polynucleotide from a plurality of component polynucleotides not
originating from a circular assembly vector. For example, linear polynucleotides, including
DNA segments obtained by standard procedures known in the art, such as for example, PCR
amplification, chemical synthesis, and the like, can be assembled using the aforementioned
methods of assembly. In some embodiments, the linear polynucleotides comprise nucleic
acid sequences that encode genes or genetic elements of interest (e.g., promoters, terminators,
                                                  41

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
selectable markers, integration loci, epitope tags, localization signals, degradation signals,
fluorescent markers, multiple cloning sites). In some embodiments, these nucleic acid
sequences are flanked by one or two annealable linker sequences, LA and/or LB, or by an
annealable linker sequence and a primer binding segment (e.g., LA and PB or LB and PA).
[00108]         In some embodiments, the linear polynucleotides are added to the assembly
reaction at any stage prior to the SOE/PCR reaction or host cell mediated homologous
recombination for assembly into the assembled polynucleotide. Thus, in some embodiments,
the assembly methods are used to assemble: (1) linear component polynucleotides derived
from assembly vectors comprising one or two annealable linker sequences, or an annealable
linker sequence and a primer binding segment, and generated by digestion of the assembly
vectors; (2) vectorless linear DNA fragments flanked by one or two annealable linker
sequences, or by an annealable linker sequence and a primer binding segment; and (3)
combinations thereof.
[00109]         Accordingly, in some embodiments, provided herein are methods of
assembling a plurality of component polynucleotides into one or more assembled
polynucleotides, comprising the steps of:
                (a) providing a components composition comprising:
                        (i)     one or more first nucleic acid molecules, wherein each first
                nucleic acid molecule is linear and comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, any
                primer binding segment selected from the group PA, any DNA segment
                selected from the group Do, and an annealable linker sequence LBo;
                        (ii)    one or more intermediate nucleic acid molecules wherein each
                intermediate nucleic acid molecule n is linear and comprises, in a 5' to 3'
                orientation, a first annealable linker sequence LA, any DNA segment selected
                from the group D, and a second annealable linker sequence LB, wherein n
                represents an integer from one to the number of intermediate nucleic acid
                molecules; and
                        (iii)   one or more last nucleic acid molecules, wherein each last
                nucleic acid molecule is linear and comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, an
                annealable linker sequence LAm, a DNA segment selected from the group Dm,
                and any primer binding segment selected from the group PB, wherein m
                represents an integer one greater than the number of intermediate nucleic acid
                molecules; whereupon denaturation of the resulting linear nucleic acid
                molecules, each annealable linker sequence LB(p_1) is capable of hybridizing to
                                                42

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
                 the complement of annealable linker sequence LAp, wherein n is an integer
                 that varies from 1 to (m- 1), wherein p represents an integer from 1 to m, and
                 wherein each group Do,... D.... and Dm consists of one or more DNA
                 segments;
                 and
                 (b) contacting the components composition with DNA polymerase,
         deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates and one or more first primers and one or more
         second primers, under conditions suitable for denaturation of the nucleic acid
         molecules, annealing of annealable linker sequence LB(p_1) to annealable linker
         sequence LAp, and extension therefrom; wherein each said first primer is capable of
         hybridizing to one of said primer binding segments selected from the group PA and
         each said second primer is capable of hybridizing to one of said primer binding
         segments selected from the group PB; and subjecting the components composition to
         polymerase chain reaction,
where a polynucleotide is assembled which comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, one DNA
segment selected from each of the groups Do,... D,... and Dm. In the method, p represents
the integers from 1 to m.
[00110]          In other embodiments, the methods of polynucleotide assembly provided
herein comprise transforming a host cell with a plurality of linear polynucleotides, for
example polynucleotides generated by standard procedures known in the art, such as PCR
amplification, chemical synthesis, and the like, or by the methods of polynucleotide assembly
described herein, and allowing the host cell to generate one or more assembled
polynucleotides in vivo by homologous recombination. In a particular embodiment, the host
cell combines the plurality of linear polynucleotides into a single combined polynucleotide by
homologous recombination. Host cell transformants comprising the combined
polynucleotides are selected by virtue of expressing a selectable marker that is generated in
the process of combining the linear polynucleotides.
[00111]          In some embodiments, one or more linear polynucleotides to be assembled in
vivo comprises an annealable linker sequence LB that is homologous to an annealable linker
sequence LA of another linear polynucleotide to be assembled, and that is of sufficient length
to initiate host mediated homologous recombination. The host cell recombines the
component polynucleotides at the regions of homology between the annealable linker
sequences to form an assembled polynucleotide. Host cells comprising the assembled
polynucleotide can be readily identified based on a selectable marker encoded by a DNA
                                                43

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
segment of the assembled polynucleotide. In some embodiments, the assembled
polynucleotide comprises an upstream chromosomal targeting sequence and a downstream
chromosomal targeting sequence, wherein both chromosomal targeting sequences are of
sufficient length to initiate host mediated homologous recombination of the assembled
polynucleotide with a target loci on a chromosome of the host cell.
[00112]          The method is particularly useful for inserting relatively large pieces of
polynucleotide into a target polynucleotide by homologous recombination. For chromosomal
integration to occur, the combined polynucleotide must comprise an upstream genomic
targeting sequence located 5' or 3' of the DNA segment and a downstream genomic targeting
sequence located 3' or 5' of the coding sequence of the DNA segment, respectively. Genomic
integration as used herein includes chromosomal integration, i.e., integration of a
polynucleotide into a chromosome of a host cell. Suitable chromosomal integration sites in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae include but are not limited to the NDT80, HO, GAL2, and GALl
GAL 1O-GAL7 locus. The method can also be useful for generating host cells comprising an
extrachromosomally maintained polynucleotide, e.g., vectors and expression plasmids. The
stability of either a chromosomally integrated or an extrachromosomally maintained
combined polynucleotide is increased when the combined polynucleotide does not comprise
identical annealable linker sequences or DNA segments arranged as direct repeats that can
otherwise initiate additional homologous recombination events resulting in the excision of
segments of the component polynucleotide. Therefore, in some embodiments, the assembled
polynucleotides comprise unique annealable linker sequences and DNA segments. In other
embodiments, the assembled polynucleotides contain one or more identical annealable linker
sequences or DNA segments that upon combination of the assembled polynucleotides are
arranged as inverted repeats in the combined polynucleotide.
[00113]          In other embodiments, the systems and methods provided herein for defining
engineered nucleic acid constructs find use, and are compatible with, methods of assembly of
component polynucleotides into an assembled polynucleotide via chain reaction cloning
using a thermostable ligase, for example, as described for example, in U.S. Patent No.
6,143,527, and Pachuk et al., Gene 243:19-25 (2000), each of which is hereby incorporated
by reference in its entirety.
[00114]          In brief, chain reaction cloning utilizes the specificity of Watson-Crick base
pairing and the amplification capability of thermostable DNA ligases such as Ampligase*
(Epicentre Technologies, Madison, WI). The method involves the use of two or more
oligonucleotides called "bridge oligonucleotides." Each bridge oligonucleotide is designed to
                                                 44

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
be complementary to the ends of two DNA molecules to be ligated. The oligonucleotides
overlap the ligation junction, for example, by approximately 10-40 bases on each side, and
ensure that the two single-stranded nucleic acid molecules are aligned correctly. Individual
double-stranded nucleic acid molecules to be ligated can include, for example, component
polynucleotides flanked by one or two full or partial annealable linker sequences, LA and/or
LB, or by a full or partial annealable linker sequence and a full or partial primer binding
segment (e.g., LA and PB or LB and PA). When utilizing chain reaction cloning as a method
of polynucleotide assembly, complementarity between LA and LB is not required, and in
certain embodiments, such complementarity is avoided so as to reduce competition for
hybridization of the annealable linker or primer binding segment to the appropriate bridging
oligonucleotides. The DNA molecules to be ligated are incubated with the bridge
oligonucleotides and a thermostable DNA ligase, and heated, for example, to 94'C to
denature the double-stranded DNA. The sample is then cooled to a temperature that enables
each bridge oligonucleotide to anneal to its two components in the single-stranded DNA
molecules. The bridge oligonucleotide acts to bring the two single-stranded DNA termini
into close proximity, where they can become a substrate for ligation. The DNA ligase joins
the two nucleic acid molecules into a single, larger, composite nucleic acid molecule. To
avoid non-specific annealing of oligonucleotides, the annealing temperature is not dropped
below the melting temperature (Tm) of the oligonucleotides. In some embodiments, all of the
oligonucleotides in a reaction are designed to have a similar Tm. The temperature is then
brought up to 66'C, the optimal temperature for Ampligase*. The nucleic acid molecules are
subsequently denatured so that the composite molecule formed by the ligated nucleic acid
molecules and the template cease to hybridize to each. Each composite molecule then serves
as a template for orienting unligated, single-stranded nucleic acid molecules. In subsequent
cycles of the reaction, both the bridge oligonucleotide and product molecules act as templates
for hybridization and ligation. After several cycles, composite nucleic acid molecules are
generated from smaller nucleic acid molecules.
[001151         In other embodiments, the systems and methods provided herein for defining
engineered nucleic acid constructs find use, and are compatible with, methods of DNA
assembly reviewed by Ellis et al., Integr. Biol. 3:109-118 (2011), including but not limited to,
Overlap Extension PCR (Horton et al., Gene 77:61-68 (1989)); In-Fusion TM (Sleight et al.,
Nucliec Acids Res. 3 8:2624-2636 (2010)); Sequence and Ligation Independent Cloning
(SLIC) (Li and Elledge, Nat. Methods4:251-256 (2007)); Gibson Assembly (Gibson et al.,
Nat. Methods 6:343-345 (2009); Gibson et al., Nat. Methods 7:901-903 (2010)); Uracil
                                               45

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
Specific Excision Reagent (USER) (Nour-Eldin et al., Methods Mol. Biol.643:185-200
(2010); Smith et al., PCR Methods Appl., 2:328-332 (1993)); Circular Polymerase Extension
Cloning (CPEC) (Quan and Tian, PLoS One 4:e6441 (2009); Bryskin and Matsumura,
Bio Techniques 48:463-465 (2010)); and Transformation Assisted Recombination (TAR)
(Larionov et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93:491-496 (1996); Itaya et al., Nat.
Methods5:41-43 (2008)), the contents of each are which are hereby incorporated by reference
in their entireties.
         5.4     Exemplary System for Polynucleotide Assembly
[00116]          The systems and methods described in Section 5.3 provide for the
advantageous construction of engineered nucleic acid constructs. Detailed in this section are
advantageous systems for obtaining each of the component polynucleotides necessary to
construct such engineered nucleic acid constructs.
[001171          In some embodiments, the disclosed systems are particularly advantageous
because they make use of existing component polynucleotides bound to linker nucleic acid
sequences in an available freezer store when such existing component polynucleotides are
available. The disclosed systems will rearrange the component polynucleotides, in silico, in
order to discover a contiguous arrangement of component polynucleotides that will carry out
the nucleic acid requests associated with an engineered nucleic acid construct. In some
embodiments, the disclosed systems concomitantly choose linker nucleic acid sequences that
the arrangement dictates, utilizing component polynucleotides available in the freezer store.
In some embodiments, primers for the missing component polynucleotides, i.e., those not
available in a freezer store, and their concomitant linker nucleic acid sequences, are then
designed for synthesis. In this way, all the component polynucleotides, including the
appropriate linker nucleic acid sequences linked to such component polynucleotides are
prepared in the most economical fashion by exploiting the resources of the available freezer
store. The component polynucleotides bound to linkers in the freezer store that match the
component polynucleotides bound to linkers in the arrangement are retrieved from the freezer
store. In some embodiments, the missing component polynucleotides and their linkers are
synthesized using the calculated primer pairs.
[00118]          Fig. 1 details just such an exemplary system 11 for use in defining an
engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism
or a host cell. It will be appreciated that system 11 may be a scientific apparatus or a general
purpose computer system. The system preferably comprises a computer system 10 having:
                                                46

   WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
   e           a central processing unit 22;
   e           a main non-volatile (non-transitory) storage unit 14, for example a hard disk
       drive, for storing software and data, the storage unit 14 controlled by storage
       controller 12;
   e           a system memory 36, preferably high speed random-access memory (RAM),
       for storing system control programs, data, and application programs, comprising
       programs and data loaded from non-volatile storage unit 14; system memory 36 may
       also include read-only memory (ROM);
   e           a user interface 32, comprising one or more input devices (e.g., keyboard 28, a
       mouse) and a display 26 or other output device;
   e           optionally, a network interface card 20 (communications circuitry) for
       connecting to any wired or wireless communication network 34 (e.g., a wide area
       network such as the Internet);
   e           a power source 24 to power the aforementioned elements; and
   *           an internal bus 30 for interconnecting the aforementioned elements of the
       system.
[00119]        Operation of computer 10 is controlled primarily by operating system 40,
which is executed by central processing unit 22. Operating system 40 can be stored in system
memory 36. In a typical implementation, system memory 36 also includes:
   *           a file system 42 for controlling access to the various files and data structures;
   e           an identification of a target organism or a host cell 44 into which an
       engineered nucleic acid construct will be integrated;
   e           an engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46 for assembling one or more
       engineered nucleic acid constructs in accordance with the present disclosure;
   e           the sequences of one or more engineered nucleic constructs 48 that have been
       constructed by engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46 in accordance with the
       present disclosure;
   e           optionally, a freezer store database 62 that details the source constructs that
       are physically present in a corresponding freezer store;
   e           optionally, a library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 that are available for
       linking component nucleotides in accordance with an embodiment of the present
       disclosure;
                                                47

    WO 2013/075049                                                                PCT/US2012/065708
     e           optionally, an arrangement scoring module 66 for scoring an arrangement of
         component nucleotides in accordance with the present disclosure; and
     *           optionally, a primer pair calculation module 68 for computing primer pairs in
         accordance with the present disclosure.
[00120]          As illustrated in Fig. 1, computer 10 comprises data such as engineered
nucleic acid constructs 48 as well as associated data for such constructs 48 (e.g., nucleic acid
request 50, component polynucleotide sequences 52, scores for contiguous arrangements 56,
identity of physically present constructs 58, and identity of primer pairs 60), freezer store
database 62, and library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64. Such data can be stored in any
form of data storage system including, but not limited to, a flat file, a relational database
(SQL), or an on-line analytical processing (OLAP) database (MDX and/or variants thereof).
In some embodiments, engineered nucleic acid constructs 48 as well as associated data for
such constructs 48, freezer store database 62, and library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64
is stored in a single database. In other embodiments, engineered nucleic acid constructs 48 as
well as associated data for such constructs 48, freezer store database 62, and library of linker
nucleic acid sequences 64 in fact are stored in a plurality of databases that may or may not all
be hosted by the same computer 10. In such embodiments, some components of engineered
nucleic acid constructs 48 as well as associated data for such constructs 48, freezer store
database 62, and library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 are stored on computer systems
that are not illustrated by Fig. 1 but that are addressable by wide area network 34.
         In some embodiments, computer 10 calculates engineered nucleic acid constructs 48
for at least two engineered nucleic acid constructs 48, at least three engineered nucleic acid
constructs 48, at least four engineered nucleic acid constructs 48, at least five engineered
nucleic acid constructs 48, at least fifteen engineered nucleic acid constructs 48, or at least
fifty engineered nucleic acid constructs 48. In some embodiments, freezer store database 62
includes at least 2, at least 5, at least 8, at least 10, at least twenty-five, at least fifty, at least
one hundred, at least two hundred, at least one thousand, at least five thousand, at least
twenty-five thousand or at least 50 thousand different source constructs.
         In some embodiments, engineered nucleic acid constructs 48 as well as associated
data for such constructs 48, freezer store database 62, and library of linker nucleic acid
sequences 64 and related software modules illustrated in Figure 1 (e.g. engineered nucleic
acid assembly module 46, arrangement scoring module 6, and primer pair calculation module
68) are on a single computer (e.g., computer 10) and in other embodiments they are hosted by
                                                    48

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
several computers (not shown). In fact, all possible arrangements of engineered nucleic acid
constructs 48 as well as associated data for such constructs 48, freezer store database 62, and
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 and the modules illustrated in Figure 1 on one or
more computers are within the scope of the present disclosure so long as these components
are addressable with respect to each other across computer network 34 or by other electronic
means. Thus, the present disclosure fully encompasses a broad array of computer systems.
         5.5     Exemplary Method for Polynucleotide Assembly - Multiple
                 Arrangements
[00121]          Methods for polynucleotide assembly are provided. Like the systems of
Section 5.4, the methods disclosed in this section allow for the efficient construction of
engineered nucleic acid constructs using the resources of a freezer store. More specifically,
referring to Figure 2, a method for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for
integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell is disclosed. Exemplary
target organisms include, but are not limited to, yeast, E. coli, or baculovirus.
[00122]          Certain of the steps are performed by various modules in memory 36. For
example, in one embodiment, all the steps disclosed in Figure 2 are directed by an engineered
nucleic acid assembly module 46, with specific input for step 208 from an arrangement
scoring module 66 and specific input for step 214 from a primer pair calculation module 68.
However, it will be appreciated that the steps described in Figure 2 can be encoded in a single
module or any combination of modules.
[00123]          Step 202. In step 202, a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR1, ... , NR} are
received, where n is a positive integer greater than 1. Each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
... NR,,} specifies a genetic change to locus L of a target organism or a host cell. In some
embodiments, engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46 provides an input screen, such as
input screen 302 for the input of {NR 1 , ... , NR,}. Examples of {NR 1 , ... , NR"} are
illustrated in Figure 3. For example, the {NR 1,      ... , NRI} "HOA: :pSLN1>SKN7" for the
target organism yeast specifies the insertion of an exogenous copy of SKN7 under the SLN 1
promoter at the yeast HO locus.
[00124]          Similarly, the {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} '"GAL2A: : pTDH3>STE14" for the target
organism yeast specifies the insertion of an exogenous copy of STE 14 under the pTDH3
promoter at the GAL2 locus and the {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} "GAL2A: : pTDH3>ACE2" for the
target organism yeast specifies the insertion of an exogenous copy of ACE2 under the
pTDH3 promoter at the GAL2 locus.
                                                   49

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[001251         The plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} may place more than
one component polynucleotide at a locus. This is denoted herein by "::" to separate the
elements. For example, "HO^::pSLN1>ADH1::pFBA1>ADH2" specifies that two different
genes, ADHI and ADH2, are placed at the HO locus under different promoters. In some
embodiments, {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} specifies one or more genetic changes to locus L, two or more
genetic changes to locus L, three or more genetic changes to locus L, four or more genetic
changes to locus L, five or more genetic changes to locus L, between 5 and 10 genetic
changes to locus L, between 5 and 40 changes to locus L, or more than 40 changes to locus L.
In some embodiments, {NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies between 2 and 12 nucleic acid requests
(change to locus L), between 2 and 100 nucleic acid requests, or more than 20 nucleic acid
requests. However, regardless of the number of changes to locus L (nucleic acid requests) in
 {NR1, ... , NR}, in typical embodiments, only one locus L is specified by the plurality of
nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR,,}. That is, the genetic changes are directed to only one
locus in the genome of the target organism. Multiple deletions, insertions, and other genetic
changes disclosed herein can be requested at this one locus L, but only one locus is specified.
This is because the end result of the exemplary methods provided herein are one or more
engineered nucleic acid constructs that, in preferred embodiments, include insertion
sequences for recombining with the target locus by homologous recombination.
[00126]         A nucleic acid request NRi may specify an amino acid substitution. For
instance, gGPR1 $A640C specifies the GPR1 gene with an amino acid substitution at position
640 from alanine (A) to cysteine (C). A nucleic acid request NRi may specify a nucleic acid
substitution. For example, gADH1 *A200G specifies a point mutation at base pair 200 in the
open reading frame, numbered from one, from an adenosine to a guanine. A nucleic acid
request NRi may specify a slice of a desired gene part. This is denoted herein as "[]". The
slice follows the gene name specification and specifies a "from" and "to" coordinate
separated by a colon. For example gYNG2[1:660] requests the first 660 bases of the open
reading frame of the YNG2 gene.
[001271         For convenience, a coordinate may be specified relative to the first or last base
of the open reading frame. By default, everything is relative to the first base, but an 'S' or
'E' can be used to explicitly request and coordinate relative to the particular start or end.
Relative to the start -1 is the first base preceding the open reading frame and negative
coordinates in general specify upstream locations. Positive coordinates are downstream of
the first base. Relative to the end, negative coordinates are upstream of the final base in the
open reading frame (e.g. in the open reading frame and positive coordinates are downstream
                                                 50

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
or in the three prime UTR). For example, gADHi[1:-4E] specifies the open reading frame of
ADHI omitting the final stop codon. gADHi[1E:200E] specifies the downstream 200 base
pairs of the ADHI gene, (e.g. its terminator sequence). gADH1[-500:-1] or gADHI[-50OS:
1S] specify the promoter sequence.
[00128]          For many designs, the precise end of a slice is less important than finding a
point that will result in reliable construction, and so a coordinate may be preceded with a ~ to
indicate an approximate preference. For example gADHI[~-500:-1] takes approximately 500
bases upstream of the ADHI gene and the final decision for what constitutes the request NRi
is based on an optimal construction decision e.g. avoiding low complexity DNA sequence.
[00129]          The notation "!" can be used generally with any part to indicate that it should
be inverted relative to its naturally occurring (locus) orientation. For example, the expression
!gADH 1; pGAL 1; gADH2 specifies that the bidirectional gall yeast promoter is used to drive
two genes one of which must point in the reverse direction relative to the other and the
promoter.
[00130]          In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in the plurality of nucleic acid
requests specifies insertion of an insertion sequence at L. In some such embodiments, the
insertion sequence comprises a promoter and a gene the expression of which is driven by the
promoter. In some such embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a divergent
promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter. In some
embodiments, the divergent promoter is a back-to-back divergent promoter, an overlapping
divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter. In some embodiments, the
insertion sequence comprises a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a
codon substitution, a nucleic acid substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a
deletion mutation. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a fusable open
reading frame without a stop codon.
[00131]          In some embodiments, the insertion sequence specifies a protein-coding
sequence, a reporter gene, a fluorescent marker coding sequence, a promoter, an enhancer, a
terminator, an intron, an exon, a poly-A tail, multiple cloning sites, a nuclear localization
signal, an mRNA stabilization signal, a selectable marker, an integration loci, an epitope tag
coding sequence, or a degradation signal. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence
specifies a DNA segment of natural origin. Alternatively, the insertion sequence specifies a
DNA segment that can be completely of synthetic origin, produced in vitro. Furthermore, an
insertion sequence can comprise any combination of isolated naturally occurring DNA
molecules, or any combination of an isolated naturally occurring DNA molecule and a
                                                 51

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
synthetic DNA molecule. For example, an insertion sequence may comprise a heterologous
promoter operably linked to a protein coding sequence, a protein coding sequence linked to a
poly-A tail, a protein coding sequence linked in-frame with a epitope tag coding sequence,
and the like.
[00132]         In some embodiments, the nucleic acid request specifies that the entire
genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some such embodiments, the
nucleic acid request specifies that a promoter and a gene at L is to be replaced by the insertion
sequence. In some such embodiments, the nucleic acid request specifies that a divergent
promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter at L is to be
replaced by the insertion sequence. In some such embodiments, the divergent promoter is a
back-to-back divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face
divergent promoter. In some such embodiments, the nucleic acid request specifies that a
promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L is to be
replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid request specifies
that a fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is to be replaced by the insertion
sequence. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence includes a first copy of a gene in a
3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5' to 3' orientation, and a bi-directional
promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
[00133]         Figure 3 illustrates that, in some embodiments, the plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NR 1 , ... , NR} is in a data input construct. In some embodiments, the data input
construct further comprises one or more pragmas to be used in performing the disclosed
methods. In some embodiments, a pragma in the one or more pragmas specifies the identity
of a predetermined library 64 of linker nucleic acid sequences that is to be used in the
assembly of an engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, a pragma in the one
or more pragmas specifies whether the engineered nucleic acid construct is to be (i) a single
construct or, (ii) a two part construct comprising a first PCR product having a first part of a
selectable marker and a second PCR product, having a second part of the selectable marker,
wherein the first PCR product, running in the 5' to 3' direction, combines with the second
PCR product, running in the 3' to 5' direction, to form the engineered nucleic acid construct
with the selectable marker. In some embodiments, a pragma in the one or more pragmas
specifies a selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence to be incorporated into each
contiguous arrangement ARi generated by the methods disclosed herein. In some
embodiments, a pragma is between a first nucleic acid request and a second nucleic acid
                                                 52

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
request in the data input construct, and the pragma specifies that a linker nucleic acid
sequence not be placed between a first component polynucleotide specified by the first
nucleic acid request and a second component polynucleotide specified by the second nucleic
acid request in each contiguous arrangement ARi generated by the methods disclosed herein.
Such a pragma is useful instances where, for example, no nucleic acid linker is desired
between a promoter and the gene the promoter is intended to express. Thus, in one example,
the first component polynucleotide comprises a promoter and the second component
polynucleotide comprises a gene. In some embodiments, a pragma in the one or more
pragmas specifies a reference genome to be used during expansion step 204, described below,
to generate the corresponding component polynucleotide for a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 ,
... , NRI}.
[00134]           In some embodiments, an identity of a selectable marker is received with
 {NR 1 , ... , NRI}. This selectable marker is included in the engineered nucleic acid construct
for purposes of validating successful integration of the engineered nucleic acid construct into
the genome of the target organism or host cell. In some embodiments, a default selectable
marker is used when no selectable marker is explicitly included in the received request that
includes {NR 1 , ... , NR,,}. In some embodiments, an identity of a selectable marker is
determined without human intervention from a predetermined list of selectable markers when
no selectable marker is explicitly included in the received request that includes {NR 1 , ... ,
NRI}. In some embodiments, where the received request does not include a selectable
marker, the selectable marker is identified using any of the above-identified techniques
during step 206 below.
[001351           Step 204. In step 204, each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} is expanded into a
corresponding component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component
polynucleotides. Expansion is necessary, for example, in instances where a ~ was used in an
NRi to indicate an approximate preference. For example gADHI[~-500:-1] takes
approximately 500 bases upstream of the ADHI gene and the final decision for what
constitutes the request NRi is based on an optimal construction decision, e.g. avoiding low
complexity DNA sequence. In step 204, such decisions are made as part of the expansion of
the NRi to an actual polynucleotide sequence.
[00136]           To illustrate expansion, consider the case of the plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NR 1 , ... , NR 1}: "HO^::pSLN1>ADH1::pFBA1>ADH2" for the target organism
yeast. Here, expansion step 204 expands the plurality of nucleic acid requests into
component polynucleotides that allow for homologous recombination of
                                                 53

   WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
pSLN1>ADH1::pFBA1>ADH2 into the HO locus. Thus, in this example, expansion step
204 expands HO^ into upstream and downstream integration sequences for homologous
recombination with HO, pSLN1 into a component polynucleotide that encodes pSLN1,
ADHI into a component polynucleotide that encodes ADHI, pFBA1 into a component
polynucleotide that encodes pFBA1, and ADH2 into a component polynucleotide that
encodes ADH2.
[001371            In some embodiments, step 204 comprises expanding a first nucleic acid
request in {NR 1 , ... , NR} into a first component polynucleotide and a second component
polynucleotide, where the first component polynucleotide is a promoter and the second
component polynucleotide is a gene. In various embodiments, the expansion from nucleic
acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} to component polynucleotide is a one-to-one expansion, one
to-many expansion, or a many-to-one expansion. An example of a one-to-one expansion is
the expansion of one nucleic acid request into a single corresponding component
polynucleotide. An example of a one-to-many expansion is the breakdown of a single
nucleic acid request into two or more component polynucleotides. An example of a many-to
one expansion is the taking one or more nucleic acid requests and encoding the requests in a
single component polynucleotide.
[00138]            In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies a
point mutation in a gene at genomic locus L and the expansion of this nucleic acid request in
step 204 comprises obtaining a nucleic acid sequence of the gene and modifying the nucleic
acid sequence of the gene to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides for {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
[00139]            In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies that
an exogenous gene is to be inserted at L and the expansion of this nucleic acid request
comprises obtaining a sequence of the exogenous gene from a database of nucleic acid
sequences to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides
for {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
[00140]            In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request references a gene that is to be
mutated, deleted from, or integrated in L and the expansion of step 204 comprises validating
that the gene exists in an electronic gene database. In some embodiments, the expansion of
step 204 comprises obtaining a nucleic acid segment specified by a nucleic acid request NRi
in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} from an electronic database of nucleic acid sequences and incorporating
the nucleic acid segment into a component polynucleotide associated with the nucleic acid
                                                54

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
request NRi. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid segment is a portion of a gene, a
promoter, a terminator, or a gene.
[00141]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRi specifies a nucleic acid
segment having an approximate start point or an approximate end point and the expansion of
step 204 defines an exact start point or an exact endpoint for the nucleic acid segment for
incorporation into the component polynucleotide corresponding to NRi based on one or more
endpoint selection criteria. In some embodiments, the endpoint selection criterion is avoiding
low complexity DNA sequence or avoiding a restriction site.
[00142]         In some embodiments, the expansion of step 204 comprises obtaining a
nucleic acid segment specified by a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} and inverting
the nucleic acid segment relative to a naturally occurring orientation of the nucleic acid
segment prior to incorporation of the nucleic acid segment into a component polynucleotide
associated with the nucleic acid request NRi.
[00143]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies
an inline sequence to be incorporated into a nucleic acid sequence corresponding to NRi
during step 204, and step 204 comprises inserting the inline sequence into the nucleic acid
sequence corresponding to NRi thereby forming a component polynucleotide associated with
NRi.
[00144]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies
a nucleic acid segment within a gene that is to be rewritten with one or more synonymous
codons before incorporation into a component polynucleotide corresponding to NRi during
step 204, and step 204 comprises replacing the nucleic acid segment with the one or more
synonymous codons.
[001451         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} specifies
that a nucleic acid segment is to be rewritten with synonymous codons, before incorporation
into a component polynucleotide corresponding to the nucleic acid request NRi, so that the
nucleic acid segment is maximally dissimilar relative to a naturally occurring instance of the
nucleic acid segment and step 204 comprises rewriting the nucleic acid segment with
synonymous codons so that the nucleic acid segment is maximally dissimilar relative to a
naturally occurring instance of the nucleic acid segment and incorporating the rewritten
nucleic acid segment in a component polynucleotide corresponding to the nucleic acid
request NRi.
[00146]         In some embodiments, expanding step 204 comprises an iteration between (i)
expansion of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} to a parse tree and (ii) using the parse tree to rewrite {NR 1 ,
                                                 55

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
NR,,} in simpler form, until no NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} can be rewritten in simpler form.
Then, any of the above-identified expansion operations are performed on any of the {NR 1 ,
... NRI} written out in simpler form. Parse trees and related compiler design principles are
disclosed in Modern CompilerDesign, Grune et al., John Wiley & Sons Ltd., New York,
2001, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[001471         Step 206. In step 206, the plurality of component polynucleotides that were
expanded from the plurality of nucleic acid requests are arranged into a contiguous
arrangement ARi. In typical embodiments, annealable linker nucleic acid sequences, 64, are
used to combine the component polynucleotides corresponding to the plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI} into the contiguous arrangement ARi. In some embodiments, the
linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences. In typical embodiments, such selection of linker nucleic acid sequences is limited
to the design criterion that any given linker nucleic acid sequence in the library of linker
nucleic acid sequences 64 only be used once in any given engineered nucleic acid construct.
It will be appreciated that the predetermined library of annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences 64 is a virtual library, not an actual library of nucleic acid sequences.
Nevertheless, the virtual library contains predetermined annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences that are designed to advantageously combine component polynucleotides into an
engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, such annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences provide the component polynucleotides with complementary termini. In some
embodimenst, the complementary termini are utilized in a splice overlap extension assembly
reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction to assemble the component polynucleotides
into an assembled polynucleotide with an ordered sequence. The general properties of such
annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are disclosed in section 5.15 below.
[00148]         In some embodiments, consistent with the properties of annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences disclosed in section 5.15 below, the predetermined library of linkers
64 has a structure illustrated in Figure 7. The exemplary library of linkers 64 includes
categories 702 of linkers. An example of one such category 702 is high G-C content.
Annealable linker nucleic acid sequences in this category have a high G-C content, i.e., the
number of guanine and cytosine nucleotides in the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence as
a percentage of the total number of bases in the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence.
Annealable linker nucleic acid sequences that have a high G-C content are generally useful in
the methods of the invention because a high G-C content generally provides for a high Tm,
which in turn may provide for more specific priming during an assembly reaction and for
                                                56

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
time and process savings by allowing combination of the annealing and extension steps of
SOE/PCR. This category of annealable linker nucleic acid sequences is disclosed in more
detail in section 5.15 below.
[00149]          Another exemplary category 702 of annealable linker nucleic acid sequences
is high A-T content. Annealable linker nucleic acid sequences in this category have a high
A-T content, i.e., the number of adenine and thymine nucleotides in the annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence as a percentage of the total number of bases in the annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence. A high A-T content may provide for reduced propensity of the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence to form substantial secondary structures, which may
be of particular concern when the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is used to assemble
component polynucleotides comprising a promoter and a protein coding sequence into a
assembled polynucleotide in which the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is positioned
between the promoter and the protein coding sequence. This category of annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences is disclosed in more detail in section 5.15 below.
[001501          For each category 702 of annealable linker nucleic acid sequence, there is a set
of 3' linkers (LA linkers) and a corresponding set of 5' linkers (LB linkers). The 5' linkers
(LA) are designed for the 5' end of a component polynucleotide where the 3' linkers (LB) are
designed for the 3' end of a component polynucleotide. Each linker is assigned a number.
For instance, referring to Figure 7, category 702-1 includes the 702-1-A set of 5' linkers
 {704-1-LA 1 , 704-1-LA 2, ... , 704-1-LA} and the 702-1-B set of 3' linkers{704-1-LBI, 704
1-LB 2, ... , 704-1-LB,,}, category 702-2 includes the 702-2-A set of 5' linkers {704-2-LA 1 ,
704-2-LA 2 , ... , 704-2-LAm} and the 702-2-B set of 3' linkers {704-2-LB 1, 704-2-LB 2,
704-2-LBm}, and so forth.
[001511          Referring to Figure 7, in some embodiments, the library of linker nucleic acid
sequences 64 has one category. In some embodiments, the library of linker nucleic acid
sequences 64 has two categories, (e.g., A-T rich and G-C rich). In some embodiments, the
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 has three categories. In some embodiments, the
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 has four or more categories, five or more
categories, six or more categories, ten or more categories, or one hundred or more categories.
In some embodiments, there are one or more, two or more, three or more, four or more, five
or more, ten or more, or twenty or more 5' LA linkers 704 in a given category 702. In some
embodiments, there are one or more, two or more, three or more, four or more, five or more,
ten or more, or twenty or more 5' LB linkers 704 in a given category 702. In some
                                               57

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
embodiments, there is the same number of 5' LA linkers 704 as 5' LB linkers 704 in any
given category 702 in the library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64.
[00152]          In some embodiments, the library 64 of linker nucleic acid sequences consists
of 100 linker nucleic acid sequences 704 or less. In some embodiments, the predetermined
library of linker nucleic acid sequences consists of 50 linker nucleic acid sequences 704 or
less. In some embodiments, the predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences
consists of 20 linker nucleic acid sequences 704 or less. In some embodiments, the library 64
of linker nucleic acid sequences consists of 100 linker nucleic acid sequences 704 or less per
category 702. In some embodiments, the predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences consists of 50 linker nucleic acid sequences 704 or less per category 702. In some
embodiments, the predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences consists of 20 linker
nucleic acid sequences 704 or less per category 702.
[00153]          Advantageously, in some embodiments, for a given category 702-X, each
linker 704-X-LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the
complement of 704-X-LAi+ 1 . For instance, in such embodiments, 704-1-LB 1 is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of 704-1-LA 2, 704-2-LB 1 is capable of hybridizing to the
complement of 704-2-LA 2, and so forth.
[00154]          In alternative embodiments, for a given category 702-X, each linker 704-X
LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement
of 704-X-LAi _1. For instance, in such embodiments, 704-1-LB 2 is capable of hybridizing to
the complement of 704-1-LA 1 , 704-2-LB 2 is capable of hybridizing to the complement of
704-2-LA 1 , and so forth. For ease of reference herein, the embodiment in which, for a given
category 702-X, each linker 704-X-LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is
capable of hybridizing to the complement of 704-X-LAi+ 1 will be presented. Those of skill
in the art will appreciate that in any such example, there exists a corresponding example
based upon the principle that for a given category 702-X, each linker 704-X-LBi, upon
denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of 704-X
LAi _1. Such alternative examples and embodiments are within the scope of the present
disclosure.
[001551          Consider the case where an arrangement ARi specifies that component
polynucleotides CN1 and CN2 are to be contiguously linked together such that CN1 is
directly upstream of CN1 and CN2 is a promoter for CN2. Because CN1 is a promoter for
CN2, a category 702-1 of linker nucleic acid sequences is chosen for the 3' end of CN1 and
the 5' end of CN2. To satisfy other design constraints, category 702-2 of linker nucleic acid
                                               58

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
sequences is chosen for the 5' end of CN1 and the 3' end of CN2. One of the many
arrangements that would satisfy these design criteria is:
   5' - (704-2-LA1 ) - CN1 - (704-1-LB 1) - 3' , 5' - (704-1-LA 2 )     -   CN2 - (704-2-LB 2) - 3'
because 704-1-LB 1 is capable of hybridizing to the complement of 704-1-LA 2 to form the
construct:
               5' - (704-2-LA1 ) - CN1 - (704-1-LB1 ) - CN2 - (704-2-LB 2) - 3'.
[00156]          More generally, in the instance where there is only a single category 702 of
annealable linker nucleic acid sequences, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprises, in a 5'
to 3' orientation,
                                   A = an ordered set {X1 , ...  X
         where,
                         t is a positive integer greater than 1,
                         each i is an integer in the set of integers{1, ... ,t
                         each Xi comprises 5' - LAi - NAi - LBi - 3',
                         each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the predetermined library
         64 of linker nucleic acid sequences,
                         each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides,
                         each LBi, for i less than t, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is
capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAj+1, thereby forming the nucleic acid
sequence:
                            5' - LA1 - NA,     ... ,LB 1-  NA - LB-       3'.
[001571          The more complex embodiment in which there are multiple categories of
linker nucleic acid sequences used in an arrangement merely alters the requirement that each
LBi, for i less than t, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to
the complement of LAi- 1 to specify that each LBi of a respective category 702, for i less than
t, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of
LA+Ii in the same respective category 702. Such annealable linker nucleic acid sequences,
and their ability to assemble the component polynucleotides into an assembled
polynucleotide with the specified ordered sequence by a splice overlap extension assembly
                                                    59

   WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR), are disclosed in United States
Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as well as
section 5.15, below. Such assembly methods can be used to assemble any number of
component polynucleotides into one or more assembled polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the methods provided herein result in the assembly of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, or more component polynucleotides into one or more assembled
polynucleotides.
[00158]         In some embodiments, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprises:
                         A = an ordered set {X1 ,    ... X
                         B  = NAo - LBO, and
                         C  = LAt+i - NAt+1,
        where,
                t is a positive integer greater than 1,
                each i is an integer in the set of integers{1, ... ,t
                each Xi comprises 5' - LAi - NAi - LBi - 3',
                each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the predetermined library 64 of
linker nucleic acid sequences,
                each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides identified in step 204,
                each LBi, for i less than t, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is
capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAI1, thereby forming the nucleic acid
sequence:
                           5' - LA1 - NA,    ... ,LBN-1 - NAN - LBN - 3',
                LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the predetermined library of linker
nucleic acid sequences,
                NAo and NAti are each component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3'
orientation,
                                            A, B, C, and
        where,
                LBO, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to
the complement of LA 1 , and
                                                  60

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
                  LBt, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to
 the complement of LA       11, so that the nucleic acid construct comprises the nucleic acid
 sequence:
                         5' - NAo - LBo, .. ,LBt_1 - NAt - LBt - NAt11 - 3'.
[001591          In some embodiments, upon denaturation of Xi in A, each LBi, for i less than t,
is capable of selectively hybridizing to the complement of LAi. 1 compared to each other linker
nucleic acid sequence LAy or LBy, or their complements, in A, where each y is an integer,
other than i, in the set of integers { 1.,       t}. In some embodiments, an LAi or an LBi of an Xi
in A is at least 24 nucleotides in length and has a melting temperature of at least 60 0 C.
[00160]          In some embodiments, a contiguous arrangement ARi comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation,
                                     D = an ordered set {Q1,     ... Q
          where,
                  a is a positive integer greater than 1,
                  each i is an integer in the set of integers { 1, ... , a
                  each  Qi comprises      5' - RAi - LAi - NAi - LBi - RBi - 3',
                  each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence from the predetermined library of
          linker nucleic acid sequences,
                  each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides, and
                  each LBi, for i less than a, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon
 cleavage of each restriction site RAi and RBi, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of
 LAi. 1, thereby forming the engineered nucleic acid construct comprising the nucleic acid
 sequence:
                              5' - LA1 - NA,        ... ,LBa- - NAa - LBa - 3'.
[00161]          In some embodiments, a contiguous arrangement ARi in the set of {AR 1 ,
ARm} contiguous arrangements comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
                           D  =  an ordered set {Q1, ... , Qa},
                           E  = RAo - NAo - LBo - RBo, and
                           F =  RAa+1   -  LAa+1  -    NAa+1- RBa+I,
          where,
                                                        61

   WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
                 a is a positive integer greater than 1,
                 each i is an integer in the set of integers { 1, ... , a
                 each  Qi comprises   5' - RAi - LAi - NAi - LBi - RBi - 3',
                 each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence from the predetermined library of
         linker nucleic acid sequences,
                 each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides, and
                 each LBi, for i less than a, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon
cleavage of each restriction site RA and RBi, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of
LAi- 1, thereby forming the engineered nucleic acid construct comprising the nucleic acid
sequence:
                            5' - LAI - NAi,        LBa-i - NAa - LBa - 3',
                 LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence from the predetermined library of linker
nucleic acid sequences,
                 restriction sites RAO, RBo, RAa+1 and RBa+1 are each independently cleavable
by one or more type IIS restriction endonucleases,
                 restriction sites RAO and RBo are oriented so that cleavage of RAO and RBo
separates their respective recognition and cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic acid
molecule that comprises NAo - LBO,
                 restriction sites RAa+1 and RBa+1 are oriented so that cleavage of RAa+1 and
RBa-1 separates their respective recognition and cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic acid
molecule that comprises NAa+1 - LBa-1, and
                 NAo and NAa+1 are each component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3'
orientation,
                                                  D, E, F, and
                 where
                          LBO, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon cleavage of
RBo, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAI, and
                                                  62

      WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
                           LB, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon cleavage of
  RBa, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAa+, so that the nucleic acid construct
  comprises the nucleic acid sequence:
                        5' - NAo - LBo,         ,LBa-i- NAa - LBa - NAa+1 - 3'.
 [00162]         In some embodiments, upon denaturation of Qi in D and upon cleavage of each
restriction site RAi and RBi in D, each LBi, for i less than a, is capable of selectively
hybridizing to the complement of LAiti compared to each of the other linker nucleic acid
sequences LAy or LBy, or their complements, in D, wherein each y is an integer, other than i,
in the set of integers { 1.,     a}. In some embodiments, an LAi or an LBi in a    Qi in D is at
least 24 nucleotides in length and has a melting temperature of at least 60 0 C. In some
embodiments, each RA and each RBi in Q is cleavable by SapI or LguI restriction
endonuclease. In some embodiments, each restriction site RAi and each restriction site RBi is
independently cleavable by one or more type IIS restriction endonucleases, where each of
restriction site RAi and each restriction site RBi is oriented so that cleavage of a respective
restriction site RA and a respective restriction site RBi separates their recognition and
cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic acid molecule LAi - NAi - LBi.
  [00163]         It will be appreciated that, in many instances, the actual order of the
  component polynucleotides is not important. For instance, unless otherwise specified by a
  requesting molecular biologist, the nucleic acid requests:
                           HO^::pFBA1>ADH2: :pSLN1>ADH1, and
                           HO^::pSLN1>ADH1::pFBA1>ADH2
  are equivalent in that, in either case, pFBA>ADH2 and pSLN1>ADH1 are inserted at the HO
  locus. As this example demonstrates, any of several different linker 704 pairs from the
  library of linker nucleic acid sequence 64 can be used to form a valid arrangement of
  HO^::pFBA1>ADH2: :pSLN1>ADH1. To illustrate, expansion of HO^::pFBA1>ADH2:
  pSLN1>ADH1 at step 204 results in the component polynucleotides: 5'-HO insertion
  sequence, pFBA1, ADH2, pSLN1, ADHI, and the 3-HO insertion sequence. One valid
  arrangement of these component polynucleotides would order pFBA1>ADH2 before
  pSLN1>ADH1 and another valid arrangement would order pSLN1>ADH1 before
  pFBA1>ADH2. Focusing on the former exemplary arrangement pFBA1>ADH2 before
                                                   63

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
pSLN1>ADH1, step 206 could use linker nucleic acid sequences from the library of nucleic
acid sequence 64 to specify 5' - LA 1 - pFBAl- LB 1 - 3', 5' - LA 2 - ADH2 - LB 2 - 3', 5'
LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5' - LA 4 - ADHI - LB 4 - 3', where the HO insertion sequences are
not considered in the example. For ease of disclosure and understanding, the assumption is
made in this example that the library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64 either has a single
category 702 or that all the linkers used in the exemplary arrangement are of the same
category 702 so that the more simple notation LAx, LBx may be used to denote the linkers
rather than the more complex notation 704-X-LAm, 704-X-LBm. Thus, in this example, the
respective complementary termini LB 1 , LA,1+ are utilized in a splice overlap extension
assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR) to assemble the
component polynucleotides, with linkers not added, into an engineered nucleic acid with an
ordered sequence 5' - LA 1 - pFBAl- LB1 - ADH2 - LB 2 - pSLN1- LB 3 - ADHI - LB 4
3'.
[00164]           Alternatively, in the other valid arrangement, pSLN1>ADH1 precedes
pFBA1>ADH2, and step 206 uses the linker nucleic acid sequences from the library of
nucleic acid sequence 64 to define 5' - LA 1 - pSLN1- LB1 - 3', 5' - LA 2 - ADHI - LB 2
3', 5' - LA 3 - pFBAl- LB 3 -3', 5'     - LA 4 - ADH2    - LB 4 -3'. In this alternative, the
respective complementary termini LB 1 , LA,1+ are utilized in a splice overlap extension
assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR) to assemble the
component polynucleotides into an engineered nucleic acid with an ordered sequence 5'
LA 1 - pSLN1- LB1 - ADHI - LB 2 - pFBA 1- LB 3 - ADH2- LB 4 - 3'. It will be appreciated
that the first and last component polynucleotides in the arrangement may also include linkers
so that they anneal with the HO insertion sequences. Thus, the above example is given
merely to depict how several different valid arrangements may arise rather than to provide a
complete sequence of an engineered nucleic acid with all attendant linkers.
[001651           While only two valid arrangements are provided in the example above, the
number of valid arrangements that will achieve the specifications of the plurality of nucleic
acid requests received in step 202 can be extensive, particularly when there are a number of
component polynucleotides that need not be placed in a particular order. The number of
permutations of n distinct component polynucleotides, whose order does not matter is n * (n
1) * (n - 2) * ... * 2 * 1, which number is called "n factorial" and written "n!". Thus, consider
an example in which an arrangement has 15 component nucleotides, for which 5 of the
component nucleotides can be arranged in any order. In this case, there would be 5 * (5 - 1) *
(5 - 2) * 2 * 1 = 120 different possible arrangements of the component nucleotides, each of
                                                  64

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
which would validly accomplish the plurality of nucleic acid requests received in step 202.
As this example demonstrates, in some embodiments, there are 2 or more, 3 or more, 4 or
more, 10 or more, 1000 or more or even 10,000 possible valid arrangements of the
component polynucleotides that encode the plurality of nucleic acid requests.
[00166]          One example where component nucleotides can be arranged in any order
arises when several different genes are to be inserted into a given locus, each under a
different promoter. Typically, the order of such genes is not important as long as each
respective inserted gene is driven by the promoter requested for the respective gene.
Moreover, in typical embodiments, a selectable marker is added to an engineered construct to
facilitate identification of clones that contain the engineered construct. The location of this
selectable marker typically does not matter so long as it does not interrupt the relationship
between a gene and its regulatory elements (e.g., promoter, terminator, enhancer, etc.).
Where such a selectable marker is used, 5' and 3' linkers from the library of linker nucleic
acid sequences are added to the ends of the selectable marker as was the case for the
component polynucleotides of step 204.
[001671          In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide is identical to a
second component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides from
expansion step 204. In such embodiments, a contiguous arrangement that would cause the
first component polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide to run in the same
direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct is barred. This is accomplished by running
one of the two polynucleotides in the 5' to 3' direction and the other of the two
polynucleotides in the 3' to 5' direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[00168]          In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide has a high degree of
sequence similarity to a second component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides from expansion step 204. For example, the first component poynucleotide
can be at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identical to the second component
polynucleotide. In some embodiments, the first component polynucleotide comprises at least
100 contiguous nucleotides having at least 7 0%, 7 5%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identity to the
second polynucleotide. In such embodiments, a contiguous arrangement that would cause the
first component polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide to run in the same
direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct is barred. This is accomplished by running
one of the two polynucleotides in the 5' to 3' direction and the other of the two
polynucleotides in the 3' to 5' direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
                                                 65

   WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[001691         In some embodiments, the arranging of step 206 comprises inserting a
selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence into a contiguous arrangement ARi. In
some such embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a first PCR product
having a first part of the selectable marker and a second PCR product, having a second part of
the selectable marker, where the first PCR product, running in the 5' to 3' direction,
combines with the second PCR product, running in the 3' to 5' direction, to form the
engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker. Advantageous methods for
such constructs are disclosed in are disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,221,982, which is
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[001701         Step 208. In step 208, a score Si is determined for ARi. To accomplish this, a
query of a freezer store database 62 is made to determine whether a corresponding freezer
store includes all or a portion of ARi. For example, consider the example in which the
plurality of nucleic acid requests is HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1 and the
arrangement generated in step 206 comprises the component polynucleotides 5' - LA 1
pFBA1 - LBI - 3', 5'- LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2 - 3', 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5' - LA 4
ADHI- LB 4 - 3', where each LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of LAji 1 , and where HO insertion sequences are not
considered solely to simplify the example. A query is made of the freezer store database 62
to determine whether any of the component polynucleotides are present as source constructs.
[001711         An exemplary illustration of the architecture of a freezer store database 62 is
provided in Figure 6A. Freezer store database 62 comprises information about a plurality of
source constructs 602. Each source construct 602 comprises one or more component
polynucleotides 604. In typical embodiments, each source construct 602 is in circular vector
form. An exemplary embodiment of a source construct 602 is an assembly vector. Assembly
vectors are described in Section 5.14, below.
[00172]         In typical embodiments, each respective source construct 602 in the freezer
store indexed by freezer store database 62 contains a selectable marker and this selectable
marker must match the selectable marker that has been selected for the engineered nucleic
acid construct in order for the component polynucleotides within the respective source
construct to be evaluated against the component polynucleotides of the ARi.
[00173]         In typical embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of
each respective component polynucleotide 604 in the one or more component
polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs 602 is
bound to a corresponding linker in the library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64.
                                               66

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
[00174]          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in
ARi, (ii) a 3' or 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that
was used for the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi, and (iii) the
selectable marker for the source construct 602 that contains the component polynucleotide
604 is the same selectable marker that is specified for the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[001751          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in
ARi, (ii) the 3' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that was
used for the 3' terminus of the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi,
(iii) the 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that was used
for the 5' terminus of the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi, and
(iv) the selectable marker for the source construct 602 that contains the component
polynucleotide 604 is the same selectable marker that is specified for the engineered nucleic
acid construct.
[00176]          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in ARi
and (ii) a 3' or 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that was
used for the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi.
[001771          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in
ARi, (ii) a 3' or 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that
was used for the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi, (iii) the
selectable marker for the source construct 602 that contains the component polynucleotide
604 is the same selectable marker that is specified for the engineered nucleic acid construct,
and (iv) the orientation (5' to 3' or 3' to 5') of the component polynucleotide 604 in the
source construct 602 matches the orientation of the component polynucleotide in ARi.
[00178]          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in
                                                 67

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
ARi, (ii) the 3' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that was
used for the 3' terminus of the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi,
(iii) the 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that was used
for the 5' terminus of the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi, (iv)
the selectable marker for the source construct 602 that contains the component polynucleotide
604 is the same selectable marker that is specified for the engineered nucleic acid construct,
and (v) the orientation (5' to 3' or 3' to 5') of the component polynucleotide 604 in the source
construct 602 matches the orientation of the component polynucleotide in ARi.
[001791          In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in a source construct
602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in ARi when (i) the sequence of the
component polynucleotide 604 matches the sequence of the component polynucleotide in
ARi, (ii) a 3' or 5' terminus of the component polynucleotide 604 is bound to a linker that
was used for the respective component polynucleotide in step 206 to form ARi, and (iii) the
orientation (5' to 3' or 3' to 5') of the component polynucleotide 604 in the source construct
602 matches the orientation of the component polynucleotide in ARi.
[00180]          Thus, in typical embodiments, information beyond that which is illustrated in
Figure 6A is stored for each source construct 602. In some embodiments, the selectable
marker of each source construct 602 is stored in the freezer store database 62. In some
embodiments, the 5' and 3' linker of each component polynucleotide 604 is stored in freezer
store database 62. In some embodiments, the full nucleic acid sequence of each component
polynucleotide 604 and any attached linkers is stored in freezer store database 62. In some
embodiments, the quantity of each source construct 602 existing in the freezer store is stored
in the freezer store database 62.
[001811          Figure 8 provides a snapshot of representative source constructs 602 and the
information that is stored for each source construct 602 in an exemplary embodiment. In the
exemplary embodiment, freezer store database 62 includes a unique identifier 802 and a name
804 for each source construct 602. For each source construct 602 in this exemplary
embodiment, freezer store database 62 also includes an identity 806 of a linker, from the
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64, that is used for the source construct insert. For
each source construct 602 in this exemplary embodiment, freezer store database 62 also
includes the direction (5' to 3' or 3' to 5') of the source construct insert. For each source
construct 602 in this exemplary embodiment, freezer store database 62 includes the breed 810
(e.g., GST) and the source 812 (e.g., S. cerevisiae,E. coli, etc.) of the source construct 602.
For each source construct 602 in this exemplary embodiment, freezer store database 62
                                                 68

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
includes a name of the insert 812 (component polynucleotide) and a status (e.g., available,
requested) 818 of the source construct 602. For each source construct 602 in this exemplary
embodiment, freezer store database 62 includes an available concentration 820 of the source
construct 602 in the associated freezer store. For each source construct 602 in this exemplary
embodiment, freezer store database 62 optionally includes a popularity of the source
construct, for instance, represented by positive and/or negative votes 822 by users of the
source construct 602.
[00182]         Each of the source constructs 602 indexed by freezer store database 62 is
physically present in a collection of freezers that are each proximately located with respect to
each other and that are each owned by the same entity. In some embodiments, the collection
of freezers is deemed to be proximately located when they are in the same building, same
campus, or within five miles of each other. In some embodiments, the collection of freezers
is deemed to be proximately located when it is possible to retrieve any source construct
identified in the freezer store database within thirty minutes, within twenty minutes, within
10 minutes, within five minutes, or within one minute.
[001831         In some embodiments, the freezer store database 602 comprises information
for 1000 or more source constructs 602 and the corresponding freezer store contains 1000 or
more source constructs. In some embodiments, the freezer store database 602 comprises
information for 10,000 or more source constructs 602 and the corresponding freezer store
contains 10,000 or more source constructs. In some embodiments, the freezer store database
602 comprises information for 50,000 or more source constructs 602 and the corresponding
freezer store contains 50,000 or more source constructs. In some embodiments, the freezer
store database 602 comprises information for 100,000 or more source constructs 602 and the
corresponding freezer store contains 100,000 or more constructs. In some embodiments, the
freezer store database 602 comprises information for 500,000 or more source constructs 602
and the corresponding freezer store contains 500,000 or more constructs.
[00184]         As illustrated in Figure 6A, each source construct 602 comprise one or more
component polynucleotides 604. Each such component polynucleotide 604 may or may not
correspond to a component polynucleotide identified in expansion step 604. For instance,
consider the case where expansion step 602 specifies the component polynucleotide 5' - LA 1
- pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3', where the nucleic acid sequences are shown added to the component
polynucleotide. It is possible that none of the component polynucleotides 604 in freezer store
database 62 will match 5' - LA 1 - pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3'. Moreover, it is possible that a
component polynucleotide 604 in freezer store database 62 contains the promoter pFBA1 but
                                                69

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
not the linkers 5' - LA 1 and - LB 1 - 3'. For instance, the component polynucleotide 604 that
contains pFBA1 may in fact be 5' - LA 2 - pFBA1 - LB 2 - 3'. In this case, the component
polynucleotide 5' - LA 2 - pFBA1 - LB 2 - 3' will not be considered a match to 5' - LA 1
pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3' because the linkers do not match up.
[001851          In the form illustrated in Figure 6A, each of the component polynucleotides
604 for a given source construct 602 are listed sequentially in their contiguous 5' to 3' order.
Thus, referring to source construct 602, the construct comprises 5'- component
polynucleotide 1-1 - component polynucleotide 1-2 - component polynucleotide 1-A - 3'.
[00186]          To exhaustively query the freezer store database 62 for presence of component
polynucleotides, a number of different queries are made. In some embodiments, these
queries are performed in any order. In some embodiments, these queries are performed
simultaneously, concurrently or sequentially. In some embodiment, only a subset of these
queries are made. Figure 4A and 4B collectively list out an exhaustive set of queries that
could be made for the exemplary ARi 5' - LA 1 - pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3', 5' - LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2
- 3', 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5' - LA 4 - ADHI- LB 4 - 3' which encodes the plurality
of nucleic acid requests HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1.               Among the queries that are
made are queries for the absence or presence of each of 5' - LA 1 - pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3', 5'
LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2 - 3', 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5' - LA 4 - ADHI- LB 4 - 3' in source
constructs in the freezer store database 62. These component polynucleotides are illustrated
in Figure 4A. This can be tested, for example, by a first query in which a determination is
made as to whether the sequence 5' - LA 1 - pFBA1 - LB 1 - 3' is found in any source
construct in database 62, a second query in which a determination is made as to whether the
sequence 5' - LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2 - 3' is found in any source construct in database 62, a third
query in which a determination is made as to whether the sequence 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3
3' is found in any source construct in database 62, a fourth query in which a determination is
made as to whether the sequence 5' - LA 4 - ADHI- LB 4 - 3' is found in any source
construct in database 62. If one or more of these four sequences are in the freezer store
database 62, they likely are each in a different assembly vector. Assembly vectors are
described in further detail in Section 5.14 below. Assembly vectors are a form of source
construct in accordance with the present disclosure. As discussed above, in typical
embodiments, a component polynucleotide 604 in freezer store database 602 is not deemed a
match to a query component polynucleotide in ARi unless they use the same 3' and 5' linkers.
[001871          In some optional embodiments, in addition to querying for the presence of
single component polynucleotides in source constructs in the freezer store database 62,
                                                 70

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
queries are made for all possible subsets of the arrangement ARi in a single source construct
602 represented in freezer store database 62. These component polynucleotides are
illustrated in Figure 4B. For instance, in the example presented, in addition to making a
query for the presence of each single component polynucleotide, a query is made to
determine if any of the component polynucleotides found Figure 4B are in the freezer store
database 62. As Figures 4A and 4B collectively show, in the case where there are four
component polynucleotides collectively representing the plurality of nucleic acid requests
where each respective component polynucleotide is bound by linkers, a total of 4 * (4 -1) * 2
* 1 queries are made. More generally, in the case of n component polynucleotides
collectively representing the plurality of nucleic acid requests where each respective
polynucleotide request is bound by at least one linker at its 5' or 3' end, a total of 4 * (4 -1) *
2 * 1 queries are made, which number is called "n factorial" and written "n!". Source
constructs 602 that encode more than one component polynucleotide are referred to as stitch
vectors. Stich vectors are otherwise identical to assembly vectors accept that they include
two or more component polynucleotides in contiguous order, where the two or more
component polynucleotides are each separated by a linker from the library of nucleic acid
sequences 64.
[00188]          In some embodiments, the 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of
each respective component polynucleotide in a stitch vector is bound to a corresponding
linker from the predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. For instance, consider
the case where a stitch vector comprises component polynucleotides A and B. In a preferred
embodiment, component polynucleotides would be encoded as LAx-A-LBx-B-LBx-,.
[00189]          In some embodiments, a contribution to the score Si is made for the
arrangement ARi when one or more source constructs are identified as being physically
present in a freezer store, where the one or more physically present source constructs
collectively encode all or a portion of ARi. For instance, consider a first use case in which an
arrangement ARi comprises twenty component polynucleotides. Upon querying the freezer
store database 62, a determination is made that four of the twenty component polynucleotides
are physically present in the freezer store database 62 and that each of the four component
polynucleotides use linker nucleic acid sequences specified for the four component
polynucleotides by the ARi. In this case, the arrangement ARi receives a score of four
arbitrary units. Each arbitrary unit is for one of the four component polynucleotides that are
physically present in the freezer store database 62. Alternatively, suppose that upon querying
the freezer store database 62, the determination is made that ten of the twenty component
                                                71

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides are physically present in the freezer store database 62 and that each of these
ten component polynucleotides use linker nucleic acid sequences specified for the ten
component polynucleotides by the ARi. The arrangement would receive a score of ten
arbitrary units.
[00190]          Other scoring methods in which a contribution is made to the score Si for an
arrangement ARi when one or more source constructs 602 that encode all or a portion of ARi
are identified as being physically present in a freezer store are possible. For example, a
lookup table may include a score to be added to Si for the occurrence of any given component
polynucleotide of step 204 in the one or more source constructs. For instance, consider the
case in which a first source construct comprises a first component polynucleotide and a
second source construct comprises a second component polynucleotide. To determine the
contribution made by the first component polynucleotide, a lookup table is consulted to
retrieve the value of the first component polynucleotide. To determine the contribution made
by the second component polynucleotide, a lookup table is consulted to retrieve the value of
the second component polynucleotide. Consider the case in which the first component
polynucleotide has a value of three arbitrary units and the second component polynucleotide
has a value of seven arbitrary units. In this case, the total contribution of the first and second
component polynucleotides is ten arbitrary units.
[00191]          In another scoring method in accordance with the present disclosure, the score
of a component polynucleotide is determined by a length of the component polynucleotide
relative to the length of the engineered nucleic acid. For instance, consider the case in which
a component polynucleotide is thirty percent of the total length of the engineered nucleic acid
construct. In this instance, the component polynucleotide, when present in a qualifying
source construct represented in freezer store database 62, will contribute a sufficient number
of arbitrary units to achieve 30 percent of a perfect score. In some embodiments, the source
construct is qualifying when it uses the same selectable marker specified for the engineered
nucleic acid construct and when the specified component polynucleotide uses the same
linkers called for the specified component polynucleotide in ARi.
[00192]          In light of the present disclosure, those of skill in the art will appreciate that a
broad range of scoring schemes in which a contribution is made to Si when one or more
component polynucleotides 604 are present in source constructs in a freezer store are possible
and all such scoring schemes are within the scope of the present invention. The disclosed
scoring schemes are simply meant to illustrate some of the many possible scoring schemes.
                                                 72

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[001931         In some embodiments, the 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of
each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides
encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs is bound to a corresponding
linker from the predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. This facilitates the
construction of the engineered nucleic acid construct through splice overlap extension
assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR), as disclosed in United
States Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[00194]         In some embodiments, step 208 comprises determining whether a source
construct having all or a subset of the plurality of component polynucleotides, in the
contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi, is present in the freezer store,
and a contribution the source construct makes to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement
ARi is dependent upon a number of component polynucleotides in the source construct that
are in the contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi.
[001951         In some embodiments, step 208 determines a score Si for a contiguous
arrangement ARi by (i) identifying a first source construct in the freezer store, the first source
construct having a first subset of the plurality of component polynucleotides, in the
contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi, (ii) identifying a second
source construct in the freezer store, the second source construct having a second subset of
the plurality of component polynucleotides, in the contiguous order specified by the
contiguous arrangement ARi, where there is no overlap between the first subset and the
second subset. A first contribution to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement ARi is
based upon a number of component polynucleotides in the first source construct that are in
the contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi and a second contribution
to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement ARi is based upon a number of component
polynucleotides in the second source construct that are in the contiguous order specified by
the contiguous arrangement ARi.
[00196]         In some embodiments, step 208 determines a score Si for a contiguous
arrangement ARi by identifying a set of {C1 , ... , CQ} source constructs in the freezer store,
where q is a positive integer greater than 1, for a contiguous arrangement ARi in the set of
contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each respective source construct Ci in {C1,
CQ} having a corresponding subset Si of component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides identified in the expansion step 204, in the contiguous order
specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi, where the corresponding subset Si of
component polynucleotides is not found in any other source construct in {C1 ,        CQ}. In
                                                73

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
other words, the component polynucleotides in any given source construct Ci in {C1 , ... , C}
are not found in any other source construct in {C1,   ... , Cq}. In such embodiments, a
contribution to the score Si for ARi from each respective Ci in {C1 , ... , C} is based upon a
number of component polynucleotides in Ci that are in a contiguous order specified by ARi.
[001971         In some embodiments, the one or more physically present source constructs
selected for ARi collectively encode a portion of ARi. In some embodiments, the one or more
component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified
for ARi is less than 90 percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi. In some
embodiments, the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically
present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 80 percent of a nucleic acid sequence
defined by ARi. In some embodiments, the one or more component polynucleotides in the
one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 60 percent,
less than 50 percent, less than 40 percent, less than 30 percent, less than 20 percent or less
than 10 percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi. In some embodiments, the one or
more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi is more than 10 percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi. In
some embodiments, the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more
physically present source constructs identified for ARi is more than 20 percent, more than 30
percent, more than 40 percent, more than percent,        more than 60 percent or more than 80
percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi.
[00198]         Step 210. In step 210, a determination is made as to whether a threshold
number of arrangements have been evaluated. In some embodiments, a threshold number of
arrangements have been evaluated when all possible arrangements of the component
polynucleotides have been scored. It will be appreciated that, in some instances, the order of
some of the component polynucleotides must remain fixed. For instance, the component
polynucleotide encoding a promoter for a gene is to immediately precede the component
polynucleotide for the gene itself. However, as discussed above, in many instances such as
where multiple genes are being inserted into a locus, component polynucleotides may be
arranged in several different ways. Thus, in the embodiment that requires that each possible
arrangement be evaluated, these component polynucleotides are permuted through each
possible arrangement to construct the set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} arrangements and each possible
arrangement is scored in successive or concurrent instances of steps 206 and 208.
[00199]         In some embodiments, arrangements of the component polynucleotides that
would cause a repeat sequence of greater than a predetermined number of bases to arise in the
                                                74

   WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
engineered nucleic acid construct are barred. In some embodiments, this threshold number is
ten nucleic acids, eleven nucleic acids, twelve nucleic acids, thirteen nucleic acids, fourteen
nucleic acids, fifteen nucleic acids, sixteen nucleic acids, seventeen nucleic acids, eighteen
nucleic acids, nineteen nucleic acids, twenty nucleic acids, twenty-one nucleic acids, twenty
two nucleic acids, twenty-three nucleic acids, twenty-four nucleic acids, or twenty-five
nucleic acids or more.
[00200]         In some embodiments, a threshold number of arrangements has been evaluated
when five or more, ten or more, twenty or more, thirty or more, forty or more, fifty or more,
one hundred or more, two hundred or more, three hundred or more, four hundred or more,
five hundred or more, or one thousand or more different arrangements have been evaluated.
[00201]         In some embodiments, repetition of steps 206 and 208 or any other form of
execution of these steps 206 and 208 (e.g., concurrent, etc.) results in a set of contiguous
arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}. In some embodiment the threshold number of arrangements
has been evaluated (created) when the set of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
consists of each possible unique complete contiguous arrangement of the component
polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides. In such embodiments,
contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides that place component
polynucleotides in positions that will not construct the plurality of nucleic acid requests are
not considered possible arrangements. For instance, arrangements that would cause a
component polynucleotide encoding a promoter to be somewhere other than at the 5' end of
the component polynucleotide encoding the gene to be expressed by the promoter are not
considered allowed. In some embodiments, the threshold number of arrangements has been
evaluated (created) when the set of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm} consists of a
randomized subset of all possible unique complete contiguous arrangements of the
component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, this threshold number is ten percent multiplied by the number of possible
unique complete contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality
of component polynucleotides, aside from those arrangements that are barred because they
would not enact the plurality of nucleic acid requests. In some embodiments, this threshold
number is twenty percent, thirty percent, forty percent, fifty percent, sixty percent, seventy
percent, eighty percent or ninety percent multiplied by the number of possible unique
complete contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides, aside from those arrangements that are barred because they
would not enact the plurality of nucleic acid requests.
                                                75

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
[00202]         Step 212. In step 212, a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
having a score Si that meets a selection criterion is selected as an optimal contiguous
arrangement. In some embodiments, the selection criterion is achieving a maximum score
and the arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that has a maximum score, determined in an
instance of step 208, relative to the scores of all other arrangements in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} is
selected as the optimal contiguous arrangement. In some embodiments, the selection
criterion is exceeding a threshold score and any arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} having
a score determined in an instance of step 208 that exceeds this threshold score is selected as
the optimal contiguous arrangement. In some embodiments, the selection criterion is
achieving a minimum score and the arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that has a minimum
score, determined in an instance of step 208, relative to the scores of all other arrangements in
 {ARI, ... , ARm} is selected as the optimal contiguous arrangement. In some embodiments,
the selection criterion is falling below a threshold score and any arrangement ARi in {AR 1 ,
... ARm} having a score determined in an instance of step 208 that falls below this threshold
score is selected as the optimal contiguous arrangement.
[00203]         In some embodiments, step 212 is done after each instance of step 208, rather
than after step 210 as shown in Figure 2, and the selection criterion is identification of the
first ARi to have a score that exceeds a first predetermined threshold or falls below a second
predetermined threshold.
[00204]         Step 214. In step 214, one or more primer pairs are calculated based upon the
final contiguous arrangement ARf. Each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is
capable of amplifying a portion of ARf not represented in any identified one or more
physically present source constructs identified for ARf.
[002051         In Figure 5, element 502 represents the final contiguous arrangement ARf,
encoding an engineered nucleic acid. Consider the case in which there were three source
constructs identified for ARf in the instance of step 208 in which the score for ARf was
computed and that each of these three source constructs encodes one component nucleotide
identified in step 204 for the plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI}. Referring to
Figure 5, the three source constructs encode the hashed portions 504 of the final contiguous
arrangement ARf 502. That is, each hashed portion 504 is a component nucleotide identified
in step 204. Thus, what remains unrepresented in ARf 502 are the regions 506.
[00206]         In step 214, primer pairs 508 are calculated in order to encode portions 506.
For example, unrepresented portions 506 may each be of sufficient size such that only a
single pair of primers 508 is needed for each unrepresented portion. This is the case
                                                76

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
illustrated in Figure 5. However, it is possible that each unrepresented portion 506 requires
two or more pairs of primers, three or more pairs of primers, four or more pairs of primers in
order to amplify such portions 506 from a library of DNA that includes the genomic locus of
the target organism to which the plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR} is directed.
[002071          Furthermore, since portions 506 need to combined with hashed portions 504,
the arrangement ARf includes linker nucleic acid sequences from the library of linker nucleic
acid sequences 64 for the portions 506 that will allow for such recombination to occur. It will
be appreciated that portions 506 represent component polynucleotides that could not be found
in the freezer store database 62 with the linker nucleic acid sequences specified by ARf. In
typical embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences used for portions 506 is limited to the
design criterion that any given linker nucleic acid sequence in the library of linker nucleic
acid sequences 64 only be used once in any given engineered nucleic acid construct. By
adhering to this design criterion, it is possible to recombine portions 506 with hashed portions
504 using a splice overlap extension assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain
reaction (SOE/PCR), as disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Accordingly, in some embodiments, step 214
comprises encoding a linker nucleic acid sequence specified for ARf by the instance of step
206 that made arrangement ARf into a primer in the one or more primer pairs calculated for
ARf. In some embodiments, step 214 comprises encoding each respective linker nucleic acid
sequence specified for portions 506 of ARf by the instance of step 206 that made arrangement
ARf into the corresponding more primer pairs calculated for ARf.
[00208]          In some embodiments, at least one design rule is used to identify suitable
primers in the one or more primer pairs. In some embodiments, the at least one design rule is
(i) avoidance of hair pin termini, (ii) avoidance of self-dimerization, (iii) primer length
between 17 and 28 bases, (v) percent G+C content between fifty and sixty percent, (vi)
melting temperature between 55 0 C and 80'C, or (vii) avoidance of runs of three or more Cs
or Gs at the 3' terminus. In some embodiments, any combination of 2, 3, 4, or 5 of the
following design rules is used to identify suitable primers in the one or more primer pairs: (i)
avoidance of hair pin termini, (ii) avoidance of self-dimerization, (iii) primer length between
17 and 28 bases, (v) percent G+C content between fifty and sixty percent, (vi) melting
temperature between 55 0 C and 80'C, or (vii) avoidance of runs of three or more Cs or Gs at
the 3' terminus.
[00209]          As illustrated in Figure 5, the portions 504 of the contiguous arrangement ARf
amplified by the one or more primer pairs 508 and the one or more component
                                                 77

   WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides 506 in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for
ARf, in the order specified in the contiguous arrangement ARf, collectively define the
engineered nucleic acid construct.
[00210]         In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a first
PCR product having a first part of a selectable marker, and a second PCR product having a
second part of a selectable marker, where the first PCR product, oriented in a 5' to 3'
direction, combines with the second PCR product, oriented in a 3' to 5' direction, to form the
engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker, and where the one or more
primer pairs computed for the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a first primer pair
and a second primer pair, where the first primer pair defines the termini of the first PCR
product and the second primer pair defines the termini of the second PCR product.
[00211]         Upon completion of step 214, all the components necessary for making an
engineered nucleic acid construct are formed. This typically includes an identification of one
or more source constructs in the freezer stores and a set of primer pairs that can be used
against a genomic library that includes locus L to synthesize the missing source constructs.
[00212]         In some embodiments, the selecting step 212 further comprises selecting a
plurality of contiguous arrangements in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, including ARf, where each
contiguous arrangement ARi in the plurality of contiguous arrangements has a score Si that
meets a selection criterion. This embodiment differs from what was presented above in the
sense that multiple arrangements are selected for further processing, rather than just one, and
multiple instances of the engineered nucleic acid constructs are defined. Such an
embodiment is desirable, for instance, in high priority situations in which several different
versions of the engineered nucleic acid construct are tested in vivo to identify one that works
the best. In such embodiments, step 214 further comprises calculating, for each respective
contiguous arrangement ARi in the plurality of contiguous arrangements, one or more primer
pairs based upon the respective contiguous arrangement, the one or more primer pairs
collectively capable of amplifying the portions of the respective contiguous arrangement ARi
not represented in any identified one or more component polynucleotides in the physically
present source constructs identified for ARi, where the portions of the contiguous
arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in
the order specified in the contiguous arrangement ARi, collectively define an instance of the
engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, the plurality of contiguous
arrangements comprises two contiguous arrangements, three contiguous arrangements, four
                                              78

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
contiguous arrangements, five contiguous arrangements, six contiguous arrangements, ten
contiguous arrangements, twenty contiguous arrangements, thirty contiguous arrangements,
forty contiguous arrangements, or fifty contiguous arrangements.
[00213]          It will be appreciated that the aforementioned steps, as summarized in Figure
2, are in silico steps. In some embodiments, the method further comprises outputting the
nucleic acid construct to a tangible memory, a computer monitor, or some other non
transitory memory or device. For instance, a manifest of primer pairs and component
polynucleotides in the freezer store necessary to synthesize the engineered nucleic acid
construct is outputted to a tangible memory, a computer monitor or some other non-transitory
memory or device. In some embodiments, the method further comprises actual physical
synthesis of the engineered nucleic acid construct. For example, the engineered nucleic acid
construct can be synthesized by a splice overlap extension assembly reaction followed by
polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR), as disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,221,982,
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Next, the engineered nucleic acid
construct can be contacted with the genome of the target organism or host cell under
conditions suitable for homologous recombination, thereby achieving the plurality of {NR 1 ,
... NR,,} nucleic acid requests at L.
[00214]          It will also be appreciated that while the foregoing exemplary method for
defining an engineered nucleic acid construct having multiple arrangements comprises steps
202, 204, 206, 208, 212, and 214 as illustrated in Figure 2, other methods are provided herein
which comprise only a subset of the foregoing steps. For example, in other aspects, provided
herein are methods for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct comprising steps 202
and 204; comprising steps 202, 204 and 206; comprising steps 202, 204, 206 and 208; or
comprising steps 202, 204, 206, 208 and 212.
        5.6      Additional Exemplary Method for Polynucleotide Assembly - Single
                 Arrangement
[002151          Section 5.5 discloses methods in which several different contiguous
arrangements of component polynucleotides, each effecting a common plurality of nucleic
acid requests 50 {NR 1 , ... , NRI}, are evaluated. In some embodiments, referring to Figure
12, only a single arrangement that effects a plurality of nucleic acid requests 50 {NR 1 , ... ,
NR,,} is evaluated. Several of the steps in the method disclosed in Figure 12 are identical to
corresponding steps in Figure 2. Thus, it will be appreciated that the disclosure for such
corresponding steps presented above in Section 5.5 is equally applicable to the equivalent
                                                 79

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
steps in the methods summarized in Figure 12 and disclosed in this section. Thus, for the
sake of brevity and ease of understanding the disclosure, such teachings will not be repeated
in this Section. Steps in the method illustrated in Figure 12 that correspond to steps in Figure
2 are given the same number as the step found in Figure 12, with the exception that the steps
are denoted with the prime "'symbol.
[002161         Step 202'. In step 202', a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR} are
received, where n is a positive integer greater than 1. Each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
... NR} specifies a genetic change to L. In some embodiments, an identity of a selectable
marker is received with the plurality of nucleic acid requests in step 202'. In some
embodiments, an identity of the selectable marker is determined without human intervention
from a predetermined list of selectable markers in step 206' and the selectable marker is
included in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[002171         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies
insertion of an insertion sequence at L. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence
comprises a promoter and a gene to be expressed by the promoter. In some embodiments, the
insertion sequence comprises a divergent promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven
by the divergent promoter. In some embodiments, the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
In some embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an
open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid substitution, a point mutation, an
insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence
comprises a fusable open reading frame without a stop codon.
[00218]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies that
the entire genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments,
the nucleic acid request specifies that a promoter and a gene at L are to be replaced by the
insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid request specifies that a divergent
promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter at L are to be
replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the divergent promoter is a back
to-back divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent
promoter.
[00219]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies that
a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L is to be
replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 ,
                                               80

   WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
    NR,,} specifies that a fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is to be replaced by
the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence includes a first copy of
a gene in a 3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5' to 3' orientation, and a
bi-directional promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
[00220]         Step 204'. In step 204', each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} is expanded into a
corresponding component polynucleotide 52, thereby forming a plurality of component
polynucleotides. In some embodiments, the expanding step 204' comprises expanding a first
nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR} into a first component polynucleotide and a second
component polynucleotide, where the first component polynucleotide is a promoter and the
second component polynucleotide is a gene.
[00221]         Step 206'. In step 206', the plurality of component polynucleotides are
arranged into a contiguous arrangement ARi, where the arranging uses linker nucleic acid
sequences 64 to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
polynucleotides into the contiguous arrangement. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic
acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In
some embodiments, the arranging 206' comprises inserting a selectable marker having a
nucleic acid sequence into the contiguous arrangement ARi. In some embodiments, the
arranging comprises barring an ARi that would cause a repeat sequence of greater than a
predetermined number of bases to arise in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[00222]         In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide is identical to a
second component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides and the
arranging of step 206' addresses this by barring a contiguous arrangement that would cause
the first component polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide to run in the
same direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[00223]         In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide shares a high degree
of sequence similarity (e.g., at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95%) to a second
component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the first component polynucleotide comprises at least 100 contiguous
nucleotides having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identity to the second
polynucleotide. In some such embodiments, the arranging of step 206' addresses this by
barring a contiguous arrangement that would cause the first component polynucleotide and
the second component polynucleotide to run in the same direction in the engineered nucleic
acid construct.
                                                81

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[00224]         Step 1208. In step 1208, one or more source constructs, from a plurality of
source constructs physically present in a freezer store, are selected. Each of the one or more
physically present source constructs encode one or more of the component polynucleotides.
A 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component
polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more
physically present source constructs is bound to a respective corresponding linker that was
used for the corresponding component polynucleotide in step 206'to form the arrangement.
[002251         For example, consider the case in which the plurality of nucleic acid requests
is HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1 and the contiguous arrangement generated in step
206' comprises the component polynucleotides 5' - LA1 - pFBA1 - LB1 - 3', 5' - LA 2
ADH2- LB 2 - 3', 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB3 - 3', 5' - LA 4 - ADHI- LB 4 - 3', where each
LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement
of LAin, and where HO insertion sequences are not considered solely to simplify the
example. A query is made of the freezer store database 62 to determine whether any of the
component polynucleotides are present as source constructs.
[00226]         An exemplary illustration of the architecture of a freezer store database 62 is
provided in Figure 6A. Freezer store database 62 comprises information about a plurality of
source constructs 602. Each source construct 602 comprises one or more component
polynucleotides 604. In typical embodiments, each source construct 602 is in circular vector
form. An exemplary embodiment of a source construct 602 is an assembly vector. Assembly
vectors are described in Section 5.14, below.
[002271         In typical embodiments, each respective source construct 602 in the freezer
store indexed by freezer store database 62 contains a selectable marker and this selectable
marker must match the selectable marker that has been selected for the engineered nucleic
acid construct in order for the component polynucleotides within the respective source
construct to be evaluated against the component polynucleotides of the ARi.
[00228]         In typical embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus of each respective component
polynucleotide 604 in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or
more physically present source constructs 602 is bound to a corresponding linker in the
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64. Examples of when a component polynucleotide
604 in a source construct 602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in the ARi
are addressed in Section 5.5 in conjunction with step 208 of the methods disclosed therein.
[00229]         Step 1210. In step 1210, one or more primer pairs are calculated based upon
the ARi. Each primer pair is capable of amplifying a portion of the ARi not represented in
                                               82

   WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for the ARi. The
portions of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for the
ARi, in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid
construct. Methods by which such primer pairs are computed are addressed in Section 5.5 in
conjunction with step 214 of the methods disclosed therein.
[00230]         In some embodiments, the calculating step 1210 comprises encoding a linker
nucleic acid sequence specified for the ARi into one or more primers in the one or more
primer pairs calculated for the ARi. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences
are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences.
[00231]         In some embodiments, the calculating step 1210 comprises applying at least
one design rule to identify primers in the one or more primer pairs. In some embodiments,
the at least one design rule is (i) avoidance of hairpin termini, (ii) avoidance of self
dimerization, (iii) a primer length between 17 and 28 bases, (iv) a percent G+C content
between fifty and sixty percent, (v) a melting temperature between 55 0 C and 80'C, or (vi)
avoidance of runs of three or more cytosine or guanines at the 3' terminus of a primer.
[00232]         In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a first
PCR product having a first part of a selectable marker, and a second PCR product having a
second part of a selectable marker, where the first PCR product, oriented in a 5' to 3'
direction, combines with the second PCR product, oriented in a 3' to 5' direction, to form the
engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker, and where the one or more
primer pairs computed for the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a first primer pair
and a second primer pair, where the first primer pair defines the termini of the first PCR
product and the second primer pair defines the termini of the second PCR product.
[00233]         Upon completion of step 1210, all the components necessary for making an
engineered nucleic acid construct are formed. This typically includes an identification of one
or more source constructs in the freezer stores and a set of primer pairs that can be used
against a genomic library that includes locus L to synthesize the missing component
polynucleic acids and their linkers.
[00234]         It will be appreciated that the aforementioned steps, as summarized in Figure
12, are in silico steps. In some embodiments, the method further comprises outputting the
engineered nucleic acid construct to a tangible memory, a computer monitor, or some other
non-transitory memory or device. For instance, a manifest of primer pairs and component
polynucleotides in the freezer store necessary to synthesize the engineered nucleic acid
                                                83

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
construct is outputted to a tangible memory, a computer monitor or some other non-transitory
memory or device. In some embodiments, the method further comprises actual physical
synthesis of the engineered nucleic acid construct. For example, the engineered nucleic acid
construct can be synthesized by a splice overlap extension assembly reaction followed by
polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR), as disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,221,982,
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as well as section 5.15, below. Next,
the engineered nucleic acid construct can be contacted with the genome of the target
organism or host cell under conditions suitable for homologous recombination, thereby
achieving the plurality of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} nucleic acid requests at L.
[002351             It will also be appreciated that while the foregoing exemplary method for
defining an engineered nucleic acid construct having a single arrangement comprises steps
202', 204', 206', 1208, and 1210 as illustrated in Figure 12, other methods are provided
herein which comprise only a subset of the foregoing steps. For example, in other aspects,
provided herein are methods for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct comprising
steps 202' and 204'; comprising steps 202', 204' and 206'; or comprising steps 202', 204',
206' and 1208.
          5.7       Additional Exemplary Method for Polynucleotide Assembly - Single
                    Arrangement
[00236]             Section 5.5 discloses methods in which several different contiguous
arrangements, each effecting a common plurality of nucleic acid requests 50 {NR 1 , ... , NR},
are evaluated. Section 5.6 discloses methods in which a single contiguous arrangement is
made for a single plurality of nucleic acid requests 50 {NR 1 , ... , NR"}. In some
embodiments, referring to Figure 13, several different pluralities of nucleic acid requests 50
 {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} are received and, for each respective plurality of nucleic acid requests 50
 {NR 1 , ... , NRI}, an arrangement of component polynucleotides that effect the nucleic acid
requests of the respective plurality of nucleic acid requests is evaluated.
[002371             Several of the steps in the method disclosed in Figure 13 are identical to
corresponding steps in Figure 2. Thus, it will be appreciated that the disclosure for such
corresponding steps presented above in Section 5.5 is equally applicable to the equivalent
steps in the methods summarized in Figure 13 and disclosed in this section. Thus, for the
sake of brevity and ease of understanding the disclosure, such teachings will not be repeated
in this section. Steps in the method illustrated in Figure 13 that correspond to steps in Figure
                                                    84

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
2 are given the same number as the step found in Figure 13, with the exception that the steps
are denoted with the double prime """symbol.
[002381         Step 202". In step 202", a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,.}
corresponding to a request to make an engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in a plurality of
engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk} is received. Each nucleic acid request
NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1} specifies a genetic change to L. In some embodiments, an identity
of a selectable marker is received with the plurality of nucleic acid requests in step 202". In
some embodiments, an identity of the selectable marker is determined without human
intervention from a predetermined list of selectable markers in step 206" and the selectable
marker is included in the corresponding engineered nucleic acid construct that is made for the
plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. }.
[00239]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1,
NRi,1} specifies insertion of an insertion sequence at L. In some embodiments, the insertion
sequence comprises a promoter and a gene to be expressed by the promoter. In some
embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a divergent promoter and a first gene and a
second gene driven by the divergent promoter. In some embodiments, the divergent
promoter is a back-to-back divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face
to-face divergent promoter. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a
promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation. In some
embodiments, the insertion sequence comprises a fusable open reading frame without a stop
codon.
[00240]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1, ... , NR,.}
specifies that the entire genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some
embodiments, the nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } specifies that a promoter
and a gene at L are to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the
nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } specifies that a divergent promoter and a first
gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter at L are to be replaced by the
insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
[00241]         In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1, ... , NRi,.}
specifies that a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a
nucleic acid substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L
is to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, a nucleic acid request
                                                  85

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
NRi,j in {NRi, ... , NRi,.} specifies that a fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is
to be replaced by the insertion sequence. In some embodiments, the insertion sequence
includes a first copy of a gene in a 3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5'
to 3' orientation, and a bi-directional promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
[00242]         Step 204". In step 204", each NRij in {NRi, ... , NRi,1 } is expanded into a
plurality of component polynucleotides, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of
component polynucleotides. In some embodiments, the expanding step 204" comprises
expanding a first nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } into a first component
polynucleotide and a second component polynucleotide, where the first component
polynucleotide is a promoter and the second component polynucleotide is a gene.
[00243]         Step 206". In step 206", the corresponding plurality of component
polynucleotides of the last instance of step 204" are arranged into a contiguous arrangement
ARi using linker nucleic acid sequences to combine the component polynucleotides in the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides into the contiguous arrangement ARi.
In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined
library of linker nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, the arranging 206" comprises
inserting a selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence into the contiguous arrangement
ARi. In some embodiments, the arranging comprises barring an ARi that would cause a
repeat sequence of greater than a predetermined number of bases to arise in the engineered
nucleic acid construct.
[00244]         In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide is identical to a
second component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides and the
arranging of step 206" addresses this by barring a contiguous arrangement that would cause
the first component polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide to run in the
same direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
[002451         In some embodiments, a first component polynucleotide shares a high degree
of sequence similarity (e.g., at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95%) to a second
component polynucleotide in the plurality of component polynucleotides. In some
embodiments, the first component polynucleotide comprises at least 100 contiguous
nucleotides having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% identity to the second
polynucleotide. In some such embodiments, the arranging of step 206" addresses this by
barring a contiguous arrangement that would cause the first component polynucleotide and
the second component polynucleotide to run in the same direction in the engineered nucleic
acid construct.
                                                86

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[00246]          In some embodiments, multiple arrangements are computed for a plurality of
nucleic acid requests {NRi,1, ... , NRi, 1} corresponding to a request to make an engineered
nucleic acid construct ENi in a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 ,
ENk}. For example, in one embodiment, for at least one NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI}, the
arranging step 206" comprises arranging the plurality of corresponding component
polynucleotides corresponding to NRi from the expanding step 204" into a set of temporary
contiguous arrangements {TAR1 , ... , TAR} where, for each TARi in {TAR1 , ... , TARz}, the
arranging step 206" uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component
polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into TARi. In some
embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of
linker nucleic acid sequences. Then, a score Sk is determined for each respective TARk in
 {TAR 1, ... , TARz}, where, for each respective TARkin {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, the
corresponding score Sk is determined by a method comprising (a) selecting one or more
source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
where the one or more source constructs collectively encode all a portion of TARk (e.g., one
or more component polynucleotides identified for TAR, one or more component
polynucleotides identified for TARk in which a 3' or 5' terminus is bound to a linker
identified in step 206 for the one or more component polynucleotides, etc.) and (b)
calculating Sk based on an amount of TARk represented by the one or more source constructs.
The contiguous arrangement TARf in {TAR1, ... , TARm} having a score Sf that meets a
selection criterion is selected as the optimal contiguous arrangement, where the selected
TARf is deemed to be the contiguous arrangement ARi for ENi. Methods that can be used for
scoring and exemplary selection criterion are disclosed in steps 208 and 212 of Section 5.5
and can be used for the embodiments described in this section. In this way, {AR 1 , ..., ARk}
are formed, where each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is for a different NRmin {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
[002471          Step 1308. In step 1308, a determination is made as to whether the plurality of
nucleic acid requests, for each ENi in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs
 {EN 1, ..., ENk}, has been received and/or processed. It will be appreciated that the query of
step 1308 is but one of many possible methods of processing the plurality of nucleic acid
requests for each ENi in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}.
In alternative embodiments, multiple instances of steps 202", 204", and 206" are run
simultaneously or concurrently, each set of instances 202", 204", and 206" for a different ENi
in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , EN}. In still other
embodiments, multiple instances of steps 202" are run, each for a different ENi in the
                                                 87

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, then multiple instances of
steps 204" are run, each for a different ENi in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid
constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, and finally multiple instances of steps 206" are run, each for a
different ENi in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , EN}.
[00248]            The net result of steps 202", 204", and 206" and 1308 is that, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1, ... , ENk}, the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides
from the corresponding instance of step 204" is arranged into a contiguous arrangement ARi,
where the arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component
polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides into the
corresponding ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm},
each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In some embodiments,
the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic
acid sequences.
[00249]            Step 1310. In step 1310, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or
more source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer
store are selected. Each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides in
the plurality of component polynucleotides for the respective ENi. A 3' or 5' terminus, or
both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the corresponding instance of the arranging step
206" to form the ARi that corresponds to the ENi.
[002501            For example, consider the case in which the plurality of nucleic acid requests
 {NRi,1 , ... , NRi, 1} is HO^::pFBA1>ADH2::pSLN1>ADH1 and the corresponding contiguous
arrangement ARi generated in step 206" comprises the component polynucleotides 5' - LA 1
pFBA1 - LBI - 3', 5' - LA 2 - ADH2- LB 2 - 3', 5' - LA 3 - pSLN1- LB 3 - 3', 5' - LA 4
ADHI- LB 4 - 3', where each LBi, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of LAi,, and where HO insertion sequences are not
considered solely to simplify the example. A query is made of the freezer store database 62
to determine whether any of the component polynucleotides are present as source constructs.
[002511            An exemplary illustration of the architecture of a freezer store database 62 is
provided in Figure 6A. Freezer store database 62 comprises information about a plurality of
source constructs 602. Each source construct 602 comprises one or more component
                                                  88

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotides 604. In typical embodiments, each source construct 602 is in circular vector
form. An exemplary embodiment of a source construct 602 is an assembly vector. Assembly
vectors are described in Section 5.14, below.
[00252]         In typical embodiments, each respective source construct 602 in the freezer
store indexed by freezer store database 62 contains a selectable marker and this selectable
marker must match the selectable marker that has been selected for the engineered nucleic
acid construct in order for the component polynucleotides within the respective source
construct to be evaluated against the component polynucleotides of the ARi.
[00253]         In typical embodiments, a 3' or 5' terminus of each respective component
polynucleotide 604 in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or
more physically present source constructs 602 is bound to a corresponding linker in the
library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64. Examples of when a component polynucleotide
604 in a source construct 602 is considered a match to a component polynucleotide in the ARi
are addressed in Section 5.5 in conjunction with step 208 of the methods disclosed therein.
[00254]         Step 1312. In step 1312, one or more primer pairs is calculated based upon
ARi, where each primer pair is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any
identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi. The portions
of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for the
ARi, in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid
construct.one or more primer pairs are calculated based upon the ARi. Each primer pair is
capable of amplifying a portion of the ARi not represented in any identified one or more
physically present source constructs identified for the ARi. The portions of the ARi amplified
by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or
more physically present source constructs identified for the ARi, in the order specified by the
ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi. Methods by which such
primer pairs are computed are addressed in Section 5.5 in conjunction with step 214 of the
methods disclosed therein.
[002551         In some embodiments, the calculating step 1312 comprises encoding a linker
nucleic acid sequence specified for the ARi into one or more primers in the one or more
primer pairs calculated for the ARi. In some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences
are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences.
[00256]         In some embodiments, the calculating step 1312 comprises applying at least
one design rule to identify primers in the one or more primer pairs. In some embodiments,
                                              89

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
the at least one design rule is (i) avoidance of hairpin termini, (ii) avoidance of self
dimerization, (iii) a primer length between 17 and 28 bases, (iv) a percent G+C content
between fifty and sixty percent, (v) a melting temperature between 55'C and 80'C, or (vi)
avoidance of runs of three or more cytosine or guanines at the 3' terminus of a primer.
[002571            In some embodiments, an engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {ENi,
ENk} comprises a first PCR product having a first part of a selectable marker, and a second
PCR product having a second part of a selectable marker, where the first PCR product,
oriented in a 5' to 3' direction, combines with the second PCR product, oriented in a 3' to 5'
direction, to form the engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker, and where
the one or more primer pairs computed for the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises a
first primer pair and a second primer pair, where the first primer pair defines the termini of
the first PCR product and the second primer pair defines the termini of the second PCR
product.
[00258]            Upon completion of step 1312, all the components necessary for making each
engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs
 {EN 1 , ... , ENk} are provided. This typically includes an identification of one or more source
constructs in the freezer stores and a set of primer pairs that can be used against a genomic
library that includes locus L to synthesize the missing component polynucleotides.
[002591            It will be appreciated that the aforementioned steps, as summarized in Figure
13, are in silico steps. In some embodiments, the method further comprises outputting the
plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}to a tangible memory, a
computer monitor, or some other non-transitory memory or device. For instance, a manifest
of primer pairs and component polynucleotides in the freezer store necessary to synthesize
each engineered nucleic acid constructs in the plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs
 {EN1 , ..., EN} is outputted to a tangible memory, a computer monitor, or some other non
transitory memory or device. In some embodiments, the method further comprises actual
physical synthesis of each of the engineered nucleic acid constructs. For example, each of
the engineered nucleic acid constructs can be synthesized by a splice overlap extension
assembly reaction followed by polymerase chain reaction (SOE/PCR), as disclosed in United
States Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as well
as section 5.15, below. Next, each of the engineered nucleic acid constructs can be contacted
with the genome of the target organism or host cell under conditions suitable for homologous
recombination.
                                                   90

   WO 2013/075049                                                               PCT/US2012/065708
[00260]         In some embodiments, the method disclosed in Figure 13 and described in this
section further comprises synthesizing, for each respective ENi in {EN 1        .  , ENk}, ENi, as
defined by the ARi in {AR1        .   , ARm}  that represents ENi, using the one or more primer
pairs calculated for ARi in step 1312 and the one or more physically present source constructs
selected for ARi in step 1310. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
transforming each respective ENi in {EN 1         .  , ENk} synthesized in the above synthesizing
step into a different host cell. In some embodiments, the method further comprises selecting
a plurality of host cells, where each host cell in the plurality of host cells comprises an ENi in
 {EN 1  .  , ENk} such that the plurality of host cells represents at least ten percent, at least
twenty percent, at least thirty percent, at least forty percent, at fifty sixty percent, at least sixty
percent, at least seventy percent, at least eighty percent, at least ninety percent, or at least at
least ninety-five percent of {EN 1       . , EN}. In some embodiments, an engineered nucleic
acid construct ENi in {EN 1     .   ,  ENk} comprises a selectable marker having a nucleic acid
sequence and the host cell into which the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi is
transformed is selected by propagating the transformed host cell on selectable media
corresponding to the selectable marker.
[00261]         In some embodiments, the plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid
constructs comprises one hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and the transforming
step described above is performed within two weeks of completion of the instances of the
expanding step 204". In some embodiments, the plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises two hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and the
transforming is performed within three weeks of completion of the instances of the expanding
step 204". In some embodiments, the plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid
constructs comprises three hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and the transforming
step is performed within three weeks of completion of the instances of the expanding step
204". In some embodiments, the plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid
constructs comprises four hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and the transforming
step is performed within three weeks of completion of the instances of the expanding step
204". In some embodiments, the plurality of {EN 1 , ... , EN} engineered nucleic acid
constructs comprises five hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and the transforming
step is performed within three weeks of completion of the instances of the expanding step
204".
[00262]         It will be appreciated that while the foregoing exemplary method for defining
an engineered nucleic acid construct having a single arrangement comprises steps 202", 204",
                                                    91

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
206", 1308, 1310, and 1312 as illustrated in Figure 13, other methods are provided herein
which comprise only a subset of the foregoing steps. For example, in other aspects, provided
herein are methods for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct comprising steps
202"and 204"; comprising steps 202", 204", and 206"; comprising steps 202", 204", 206",
and 1308; or comprising steps 202", 204", 206", 1308, and 1310.
         5.8      Graphical User Interface for Designing Engineered Nucleic Acid
                  Constructs
[00263]           Figure 3 further illustrates a graphical user interface 300 for designing
engineered nucleic acids. Referring to Figure 1, in some embodiment interface 300 is served
by engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46 to a client across wide area network 34 (e.g.,
the Internet). Thus, the present disclosure provides an apparatus comprising one or more
memories and one or more processors, where the one or more memories and the one or more
processors are in electronic communication with each other, the one or more memories
encoding a set of instructions for defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs
 {EN1 , ... , ENk}, where k is an integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct
ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host
cell.
[00264]           The set of instructions comprise instructions for receiving, for each respective
ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi,1,    ... , NRi,1 }
in digital alphanumeric format, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,}
specifying a genetic change to L, where, for each respective ENi in {EN 1        . , ENk}, n is a
positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1      . , EN}.
Examples of a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1} in digital alphanumeric
format are examples 304-1 through 304-14 of Figure 3. For instance, referring to Figure 3,
the first plurality of nucleic acid requests 304-1 (pACT1>PTC1) specifies driving the PTCl
gene using the pATC promoter. Thus, a first engineered nucleic acid construct is made that
effects these nucleic acid requests. Next, the second plurality of nucleic acid requests 304-2
specifies insertion of the SKN7 gene, driven by the pSLN1 promoter, into the HO locus.
Thus, a second engineered nucleic acid construct is made that effects these nucleic acid
requests. Advantageously, referring to Figure 3, all a user needs to do is paste these requests
into box 302. Once this is accomplished, the user interface 300 appears as illustrated in
Figure 14. Upon pressing the "Submit Genotypes" button 306, each plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } is then processed using any of the methods disclosed in sections
                                                  92

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
5.6, 5.7 or 5.7, above. An exemplary method by each plurality of nucleic acid requests
 {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1 } is presented in this section below.
[002651           In accordance with this exemplary method, the set of instructions further
comprises instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, each NRij
in {NRi, ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. Suitable methods for accomplishing this expansion are
described in section 5.5, step 204.
[00266]           In accordance with this exemplary method, the set of instructions further
comprises instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the instructions for expanding
into a contiguous arrangement ARi, where the instructions for arranging use linker nucleic
acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of corresponding
component polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements
 {AR1, ... , ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}. In
some embodiments, the linker nucleic acid sequences are selected from a predetermined
library of linker nucleic acid sequences. Suitable methods for accomplishing this arranging
are described in section 5.5, step 206.
[002671           In accordance with this exemplary method, the set of instructions further
comprise instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 .    , ENk}, one or more
source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
where each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in
 {EN 1, ... , ENk} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and where a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the
3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the arranging to form ARi. Suitable methods for
accomplishing this selecting are described in section 5.6, step 1208.
[00268]           In accordance with this exemplary method, the set of instructions further
comprise instructions for calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 .      , ENk}, one or
more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, where each
primer pair in the one or more primer pairs for an ARi is capable of amplifying a portion of
ARi not represented in any identified one or more source constructs identified for ARi, where
                                                    93

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in
the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi.
Suitable methods for accomplishing this calculating are described in section 5.6, step 1210.
[00269]          In an optional step in accordance with this exemplary method, the set of
instructions further comprises instructions for outputting to a non-volatile computer memory,
a non-transitory computer memory, a persistent data storage, a monitor, or a printer, for each
respective ENi in {EN   1.   , EN}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR1 ,
.... ARk} that represents ENi, and an identity of each of the one or more source constructs
identified by the instructions for calculating for Ei.
[002701          In some embodiments, for each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,}, the instructions for
arranging comprise instructions for arranging the plurality of corresponding component
polynucleotides corresponding to a NRi from the instructions for expanding into a set of
temporary contiguous arrangements {TAR 1 , ... , TARz} where z is a positive integer greater
than 1 and where, for each TARi in {TAR1 , ... , TARz}, the instructions for arranging use
linker nucleic acid sequences from the predetermined library 64 of linker nucleic acid
sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
polynucleotides into TARi. Then, a score Sk is determined for each respective TARk in
 {TAR 1, ... , TARz}, where, for each respective TARkin {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, the
corresponding score Sk is determined by a method comprising selecting one or more source
constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, where
the one or more constructs collectively encode all a portion of TAR, and (b) calculating Sk
based on an amount of TARk represented by the one or more source constructs, and (iii)
selecting the contiguous arrangement TARf in {TAR1 , ... , TARz} having a score Sf that
meets a selection criterion as the optimal contiguous arrangement, where the selected TARf is
deemed to be the contiguous arrangement ARi for ENi. In this way the set {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is
formed, where each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is for a different NRm in {NR 1, ... , NRI}. In
some embodiments, k is ten or greater, k is one hundred or greater, or k is one thousand or
greater.
         5.9     Additional Graphical User Interface for Designing Engineered Nucleic
                 Acid Constructs
[002711          Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an additional graphical user
interface for designing engineered nucleic acid constructs. In one such embodiment of the
                                                94

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
present disclosure, an apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more
processors is provided, where the one or more memories and the one or more processors are
in electronic communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of
instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell, using the one or more processors. In some
embodiments, the graphical user interface and the set of instructions, is encoded by or
directed or otherwise controlled by engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46.
[00272]          Referring to Figure 15, the set of instructions comprises instructions for listing
as a table 1502 on a display 26, where the display 26 is in electronic communication with the
one or more processors 22 as illustrated in Figure 2. Table 1502 comprises a first plurality of
component polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store. In practice, table 1502 is
populated by all or a portion of the component polynucleotides in freezer store database 62.
Advantageously, as illustrated in Figure 15, information is provided for each respective
component polynucleotide 52, such as the identity 802 of the respective component
polynucleotide, the name 804 of the respective component polynucleotide, an identity of a 5'
linker nucleic acid sequence 806-A, from the library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64, that
is bound to the 5' end of the respective component polynucleotide, an identity of a 3' linker
nucleic acid sequence 806-B, from the library of linker nucleic acid sequences 64, that is
bound to the 3' end of the respective component polynucleotide, a direction 808 (5' to 3' or
3' to 5') of the respective component polynucleotide 52, a breed 810 of the respective
component polynucleotide, a status 1502 of the respective component polynucleotide, the
creator 1504 of the respective component polynucleotide, the creation date 1506 of the
respective component polynucleotide, a source 812 of the respective component
polynucleotide, and any selection tags 1510 that are encoded by the respective component
polynucleotide.
[00273]          The set of instructions further comprises instructions for receiving a first
selection of a first component polynucleotide from the table by a user. For instance, the user
may select component polynucleotide 51-1 by clicking on the row associated with this
component polynucleotide.
[00274]          Referring to Figure 16, the set of instructions further comprises instructions
for displaying, responsive to the first selection, an icon 1602 on the display for the first
component polynucleotide, where the icon for the first component polynucleotide specifies an
identity of a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of a 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence bound to the first component polynucleotide, where the 5' linker nucleic acid
                                                 95

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
sequence and the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence are present in the electronic library of linker
nucleic acid sequences 64 that is stored in non- transitory form in the one or more memories.
For instance, consider the case in which a user selects component polynucleotide 52-1
illustrated in Figure 15 by clicking on the row associated with this component polynucleotide.
In this instance, responsive to the selection, component polynucleotide 52-1 is displayed as
icon 1602-1 on the display. Icon 1602-1 details the 5' and the 3' linker nucleic acid
sequences of component polynucleotide 51-1, "01" and "1", respectively, from the library of
linker nucleic acid sequences 64. In some embodiments, a component polynucleotide does
not have a bound 5' linker nucleic acid sequence. In such instances, no 5' linker nucleic acid
sequence is displayed in the icon 1602 for the component polynucleotide. In some
embodiments, a component polynucleotide does not have a bound 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence. In such instances, no 3' linker nucleic acid sequence is displayed in the icon 1602
for the component polynucleotide.
[002751          The set of instructions further comprises instructions for updating the table on
the display, responsive to the first selection, to provide a second plurality of component
polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store. Each component polynucleotide in the
updated table comprises a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or a 3' linker nucleic acid sequence
that, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement
of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or the complement of the 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence of the previously selected first component polynucleotide. For example, turning to
Figure 16, icon 1602-1 indicates that the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence is "3'-1". Thus,
component polynucleotides 52 in the freezer store database 62 that include the 5' linker
nucleic acid sequence "5'-1" will be listed in the updated table 1502. This is because "3'-1"
stands for lB and "5'-1" stands for 1A, and "5'-1", upon denaturation to single stranded
form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of "3'-1", thereby joining the two
component polynucleotides.
[00276]          The set of instructions further comprises instructions for receiving a second
selection of a second component polynucleotide from the table by a user and instructions for
displaying, responsive to the second selection, an icon on the display for the second
component polynucleotide, where the icon for the second component polynucleotide specifies
an identity of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of the 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence bound to the second component polynucleotide. When the 5' linker nucleic acid
sequence of the second component polynucleotide, upon denaturation to single stranded
form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the 3' linker of the first component
                                                 96

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the right of the first icon on the display, and
when the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence of the second component polynucleotide upon
denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the 5'
linker of the first component polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the left of the first
icon on the display. Figure 16 illustrates. Component polynucleotide 1604-1 of Figure 16,
gHppFMD, includes a 5'-1 linker nucleic sequence and a 3'-A linker nucleic acid sequence.
The 5'- 1 linker nucleic sequence, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of "3'-1". Thus, as illustrated in Figure 17, when component
polynucleotide 1604-1 of Figure 16 is selected, an icon 1602-2 for gHppFMD is depicted to
the right of icon 1602-1. The defined engineered nucleic acid construct comprises the first
component polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide.
[002771          The above-identified process can be repeated. For instance, in response to the
second selection, the table is once again updated to include the component polynucleotides,
from freezer store database 62, that have at least one linker nucleic acid sequence that, upon
denaturation to the single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of an
exposed 5' or 3' linker nucleic acid sequence in the growing chain of component
polynucleotides depicted as icons 1602. As illustrated in Figure 17, one such linker nucleic
acid is "5'-A" because, upon denaturation to the single stranded form, it is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of exposed 3'-A of icon 1602-2 of Figure 17. Thus, upon
selection of, for example, component polynucleotide 1702-1
"ATGGGTgPSgcgGTcyc 1 [13 6S:-1 E]" of Figure 17, the component polynucleotide is added
as icon 1602-3 to the 3' end of the growing chain of icons illustrated in Figure 18. As
illustrated in Figure 19, once a user has fully defined an engineered nucleic acid construct, it
may be sent to a clone manger application for further processing, as illustrated by icon 1902
of Figure 19.
[00278]          In some embodiments, the electronic library of linker nucleic acid sequences
consists of 100 linker nucleic acid sequences or less. In some embodiments, the electronic
library of linker nucleic acid sequences consists of 50 linker nucleic acid sequences or less.
In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation,
  A  =  an ordered set of component polynucleotides {X 1 , ... , X"} having the sequential order
                                     displayed in the display,
                                                97

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
        where,
                        n is a positive integer greater than 1,
                        each i is an integer in the set of integers{1, ... , n
                        each Xi comprises 5' - LAi - NAi - LBi - 3',
                        each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence in a predetermined library of
        linker nucleic acid sequences,
                        each NAi is a component polynucleotide,
                        each LBi, for i less than n, upon denaturation to single stranded form,
is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAj+1 , thereby forming the engineered nucleic
acid construct comprising the nucleic acid sequence:
                           5'- LA 1 - NA, ... ,LB 1 - NA,- LB 1 - 3'.
[002791         In some embodiments:
                                         B = NAo - LBO, and
                                         C = LA1- NA.1
                where,
                        LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the electronic library of linker
        nucleic acid sequences,
                        NAo and NA, 1 1 are each component polynucleotides, the contiguous
arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
                                         A, B, C, and
                where
                        LBO, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of LA 1 , and
                        LB,, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
hybridizing to the complement of LA, 1+i, so that the engineered nucleic acid construct
comprises the nucleic acid sequence:
                     5' - NAo - LBO,.,      LB,,_I - NA,, - LB, - NA,+ 1 - 3'.
                                                 98

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
        5.10     Methods of Querying a Freezer Store Database
[00280]          Illustrated in Figure 20 is a graphical user interface 2002 that allows for
searching for DNA sequences in the freezer store database 62. A user pastes or types a
polynucleic acid sequence into interface box 2004. Then, all of the possible matches are
displayed, with the option to view alignment. Referring to Figure 21, this expands the box
and shows a comparison of the search result 2102 with the polynucleic acid query that was
entered. In Figure 21, the top row of the alignment 2101 is the search result, with the query
result placed underneath it.
[00281]          In more detail, an embodiment of the present disclosure provides an apparatus
10 comprising one or more memories 14/36 and one or more processors 22, where the one or
more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic communication with each
other as illustrated, for example, in Figure 1. The one or more memories encode a set of
instructions for determining whether a nucleic acid sequence is present in any source
construct in a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, using the one
or more processors. In some embodiments, the set of instructions is a component or module
of engineered nucleic acid assembly module 46.
[00282]          The set of instructions comprise instructions for receiving a first nucleic acid
sequence in electronic alphanumeric format using a display in electronic communication with
the one or more memories, as illustrated in Figure 20. The set of instructions further
comprise instructions for receiving a matching threshold criterion using the display. For
example, referring to Figure 20, a user toggles a similarity threshold indicator to dial for a
similarity threshold of anywhere from 30% similarity to 100% similarity. In so doing, the
user specifies how similar target nucleic acids must be in the plurality of source constructs to
the query nucleic acid in order to be considered a match. In some embodiments, the
matching threshold criterion is percent identity rather than percent similarity and the user can
toggle anywhere in the range of 30% identity to 100% identity for matching nucleic acids.
[00283]          In some embodiments, set of instructions further comprises instructions for
comparing the first nucleic acid sequence with a sequence of each respective source construct
in the plurality of source constructs indexed by freezer store database 62. When a second
nucleic acid sequence that satisfies the matching threshold criterion is found within the
sequence of a respective source construct, the instructions for comparing further include
instructions for displaying an identity of the respective source construct. In some
embodiments, the plurality of source constructs comprises 1000 source constructs. In some
                                                 99

    WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
embodiments, the plurality of source constructs comprises 10,000 source constructs. In some
embodiments, the plurality of source constructs comprises 100,000 source constructs.
[00284]          In some embodiments, when a second nucleic acid sequence that satisfies the
matching threshold criterion is found within the sequence of a respective source construct, the
instructions for comparing further include instructions for displaying an alignment of the
second nucleic acid sequence against the first nucleic acid sequence. See, for example,
alignment 2102 of Figure 21.
         5.11    Methods of Generating Host Cells Comprising Assembled Polynucleotides
[002851          Another aspect provides methods for generating host cells comprising the
engineered nucleic acid construct. In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid
construct is less than 1 kilobase (kb) in size. In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic
acid construct is at least 1 kb in size. In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid
construct is at least 2 kb in size. In some embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct
is at least 3 kb in size. In other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is at least
5 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is at least 6, 7,
8, 9, or 10 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 10 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 15 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 20 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 25 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 30 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 35 kb in size. In still other embodiments, the engineered nucleic acid construct is
greater than 40 kb in size.
[002861          In some embodiments, methods are provided that comprise transforming a
host cell with an engineered nucleic acid construct generated by the methods of
polynucleotide assembly described herein. The engineered nucleic acid construct can be
circularized prior to transformation or can be transformed as a linear molecule. The
engineered nucleic acid construct can be maintained in a host cell as an extrachromosomal
polynucleotide. Alternatively, the engineered nucleic acid construct can be integrated into
the genome of the host cell, e.g., by host cell mediated homologous recombination. To
integrate an engineered nucleic acid construct into the genome by homologous
recombination, the engineered nucleic acid construct must comprise at one terminus a nucleic
acid sequence comprising an upstream genomic targeting sequence and at the other terminus
                                                100

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
a nucleic acid sequence comprising a downstream genomic targeting sequence. Accordingly,
an engineered nucleic acid construct that is to be integrated into a locus of a host cell is
generated from an assembly composition comprising a first nucleic acid molecule comprising
an upstream chromosomal targeting sequence and a last nucleic acid molecule comprising a
downstream chromosomal targeting sequence, each chromosomal targeting sequence being of
sufficient length to initiate homologous recombination by the host cell with its chromosome.
[002871         In other embodiments, the methods comprise transforming a host cell with a
plurality of engineered nucleic acid construct generated by the methods of polynucleotide
assembly described herein. In a particular embodiment, the host cell combines two or more
engineered nucleic acid construct into a single combined polynucleotide by homologous
recombination. Host cell transformants comprising the combined polynucleotides are
selected by virtue of expressing a selectable marker that is generated in the process of
combining the assembled polynucleotides. The method is particularly useful for inserting
relatively large pieces of polynucleotide into a target locus by homologous recombination.
For chromosomal integration to occur, the combined polynucleotide must comprise an
upstream genomic targeting sequence located 5' or 3' of the coding sequence of the
selectable marker and a downstream genomic targeting sequence located 3' or 5' of the
coding sequence of the selectable marker, respectively. Genomic integration as used herein
includes chromosomal integration, e.g., integration of a polynucleotide into a chromosome of
a host cell. Suitable chromosomal integration sites in Saccharomyces cerevisiae include but
are not limited to the NDT80, HO, GAL2, and GAL1-GAL1O-GAL7 locus. The method can
also be useful for generating host cells comprising an extrachromosomally maintained
polynucleotide, e.g., vectors and expression plasmids. The stability of either a
chromosomally integrated or an extrachromosomally maintained combined polynucleotide is
increased when the combined polynucleotide does not comprise identical annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences or DNA segments arranged as direct repeats that can otherwise initiate
additional homologous recombination events resulting in the excision of segments of the
component polynucleotide. Therefore, in some embodiments, the assembled polynucleotides
comprise unique annealable linker nucleic acid sequences and DNA segments. In other
embodiments, the assembled polynucleotides contain one or more identical annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences or DNA segments that upon combination of the assembled
polynucleotides are arranged as inverted repeats in the combined polynucleotide.
[00288]         The generation of an exemplary combined polynucleotide and integration of
the combined polynucleotide into a chromosome of the host cell by homologous
                                              101

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
recombination is illustrated in FIG. 8 of United States Patent No. 8,221,982 and the
corresponding text in the patent application which describes the figure, which is hereby
incorporated by reference. Such techniques can be used for the engineered nucleic acid
constructs of the present disclosure. In yet other embodiments, the methods comprise
transforming a host cell with a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs and allowing
the host cell to generate one or more engineered nucleic acid constructs by homologous
recombination. The engineered nucleic acid construct can be extrachromosomally
maintained in the host cell or integrated into the chromosome of the host cell. The generation
of an exemplary assembled polynucleotide by homologous recombination in a host cell and
integration of the assembled polynucleotide into the chromosome of the host cell is illustrated
in FIG. 9 of United States Patent No. 8,221,982 and the corresponding text in the patent
application which describes the figure, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Such techniques can be sued for the generation of an engineered nucleic acid construct by
homologous recombination.
[002891          Any host cell can be used in the methods describe herein. In particular
embodiments, suitable host cells are host cells that are capable of recombining
polynucleotides based on complementary sequence stretches such as provided by the
selectable marker segments, genomic targeting sequences, and annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences provided herein. Illustrative examples of such host cells include but are not
limited to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Conditions suitable for uptake of DNA by such host
cells are well known in the art. More details on suitable host cells are described in Section
5.12 below.
[00290]          Host cell transformants comprising an engineered nucleic acid construct can
be readily identified by virtue of expressing a selectable marker encoded by the engineered
nucleic acid construct that permits selection for or against the growth of the cells. The
selectable marker may be encoded by a single DNA segment present in an assembly vector of
an assembly composition. Alternatively, non-functional segments of the selectable marker
may be encoded by DNA segments present in multiple assembly vectors of an assembly
composition or in multiple assembled engineered nucleic acid construct such that a functional
selectable marker is generated only upon generation of an assembled polynucleotide (e.g.,
engineered nucleic acid construct) or upon generation of a combined polynucleotide,
respectively.
[00291]          Auxotrophy can also be used to identify host cell transformants comprising a
chromosomally integrated assembled or combined polynucleotide (e.g., engineered nucleic
                                               102

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
acid construct) when the integration of the assembled or combined polynucleotide results in
the disruption of a gene that the host cell requires to synthesize a component essential for cell
growth, thus rendering the cell auxotrophic.
[00292]          Host cell transformants comprising a chromosomally integrated assembled or
combined polynucleotide (e.g., engineered nucleic acid construct) can also be identified by
selecting host cell transformants exhibiting other traits encoded by individual DNA segments
or by combinations of DNA segments, e.g., expression of peptides that emit light, or by
molecular analysis of individual host cell colonies, e.g., by restriction enzyme mapping, PCR
amplification, or sequence analysis of isolated assembled polynucleotides or chromosomal
integration sites.
        5.12     Host Cells
[00293]          Another aspect provided herein provides a host cell comprising an engineered
nucleic acid construct described above. In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises the
engineered nucleic acid construct integrated into the host cell genome.
[00294]          Suitable host cells include any cell in which integration of the engineered
nucleic acid construct into a chromosomal or episomal locus is desired. In some
embodiments, the host cell is a prokaryotic cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is a
bacterial cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is an Escherichiacoli cell. In some
embodiments, the host cell is a eukaryotic cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is a
mammalian cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell,
a COS-7 cell, a mouse fibroblast cell, a mouse embryonal carcinoma cell, or a mouse
embryonic stem cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is an insect cell. In some
embodiments, the host cell is a S2 cell, a Schneider cell, a S12 cell, a 5B1-4 cell, a Tn5 cell,
or a Sf9 cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is a unicellular eukaryotic organism cell.
[002951          In some embodiments, the host cell is a yeast cell. In some embodiments, the
host cell is a diploid yeast cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is a haploid yeast cell.
Useful yeast host cells include yeast cells that have been deposited with microorganism
depositories (e.g. IFO, ATCC, etc.) and belong to the genera Aciculoconidium,
Ambrosiozyma, Arthroascus,Arxiozyma, Ashbya, Babjevia, Bensingtonia,Botryoascus,
Botryozyma, Brettanomyces, Bullera, Bulleromyces, Candida, Citeromyces, Clavispora,
Cryptococcus, Cystofilobasidium,Debaryomyces, Dekkara, Dipodascopsis,Dipodascus,
Eeniella, Endomycopsella, Eremascus, Eremothecium, Erythrobasidium,Fellomyces,
Filobasidium,Galactomyces, Geotrichum, Guilliermondella,Hanseniaspora,Hansenula,
                                                103

     WO 2013/075049                                                         PCT/US2012/065708
 Hasegawaea,Holtermannia,Hormoascus, Hyphopichia,Issatchenkia, Kloeckera,
 Kloeckeraspora,Kluyveromyces, Kondoa, Kuraishia,Kurtzmanomyces, Leucosporidium,
 Lipomyces, Lodderomyces, Malassezia,Metschnikowia, Mrakia, Myxozyma, Nadsonia,
 Nakazawaea, Nematospora, Ogataea, Oosporidium,Pachysolen, Phachytichospora,Phaffia,
 Pichia,Rhodosporidium,Rhodotorula, Saccharomyces, Saccharomycodes,
 Saccharomycopsis,Saitoella, Sakaguchia, Saturnospora,Schizoblastosporion,
 Schizosaccharomyces, Schwanniomyces, Sporidiobolus,Sporobolomyces,
 Sporopachydermia,Stephanoascus, Sterigmatomyces, Sterigmatosporidium,Symbiotaphrina,
 Sympodiomyces, Sympodiomycopsis, Torulaspora, Trichosporiella,Trichosporon,
 Trigonopsis, Tsuchiyaea, Udeniomyces, Waltomyces, Wickerhamia, Wickerhamiella,
 Williopsis, Yamadazyma, Yarrowia, Zygoascus, Zygosaccharomyces, Zygowilliopsis, and
 Zygozyma, among others.
 [00296]          In some embodiments, the yeast host cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell, a
 Pichiapastoris cell, a Schizosaccharomycespombe cell, a Dekkera bruxellensis cell, a
 Kluyveromyces lactis cell, an Arxula adeninivoranscell, or a Hansenulapolymorpha (now
 known as Pichia angusta) cell. In a particular embodiment, the yeast host cell is a
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell. In some embodiments, the yeast host cell is a Saccharomyces
fragilis cell or a Kluyveromyces lactis (previously called Saccharomyces lactis) cell. In some
 embodiments, the yeast host cell is a cell belonging to the genus Candida, such as Candida
 lipolytica, Candida guilliermondii,Candida krusei, Candidapseudotropicalis,or Candida
 utilis. In another particular embodiment, the yeast host cell is a Kluveromyces marxianus
 cell.
 [00297]          In particular embodiments, the yeast host cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae
 cell selected from the group consisting of a Baker's yeast cell, a CBS 7959 cell, a CBS 7960
 cell, a CBS 7961 cell, a CBS 7962 cell, a CBS 7963 cell, a CBS 7964 cell, a IZ-1904 cell, a
 TA cell, a BG-I cell, a CR-I cell, a SA-I cell, a M-26 cell, a Y-904 cell, a PE-2 cell, a PE-5
 cell, a VR-I cell, a BR-I cell, a BR-2 cell, a ME-2 cell, a VR-2 cell, a MA-3 cell, a MA-4
 cell, a CAT-I cell, a CB-I cell, a NR-I cell, a BT-I cell, and a AL-I cell. In some
 embodiments, the host cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell selected from the group
 consisting of a PE-2 cell, a CAT-I cell, a VR-I cell, a BG-I cell, a CR-I cell, and a SA-I
 cell. In a particular embodiment, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae host cell is a PE-2 cell. In
 another particular embodiment, the Saccharomyces cerevisiaehost cell is a CAT-I cell. In
 another particular embodiment, the Saccharomyces cerevisiaehost cell is a BG-I cell.
                                                104

   WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
[00298]          In certain embodiments, an engineered nucleic acid construct as described
above may be introduced into a host cell using any conventional technique to introduce
engineered nucleic acids into a cell known in the art. Such methods include, but are not
limited to, direct uptake of the molecule by a cell from solution, or facilitated uptake through
lipofection using, e.g., liposomes or immunoliposomes; particle-mediated transfection; etc.
See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,272,065; Goeddel et al., eds, 1990, Methods in Enzymology, vol.
185, Academic Press, Inc., CA; Krieger, 1990, Gene Transfer and Expression -- A
Laboratory Manual, Stockton Press, NY; Sambrook et al., 1989, Molecular Cloning -- A
Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, NY; and Ausubel et al., eds., Current
Edition, Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing Associates and Wiley
Interscience, NY. Particular methods for transforming yeast cells are well known in the art.
See Hinnen et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75:1292-3 (1978); Cregg et al., Mol. Cell. Biol.
5:3376-3385 (1985). Exemplary techniques include but are not limited to, spheroplasting,
electroporation, PEG 1000 mediated transformation, and lithium acetate or lithium chloride
mediated transformation.
         5.13    Entry Vectors
[00299]          In another aspect, provided herein is a vector, i.e., an entry vector, that can be
used to prepare an assembly vector. In some embodiments, an entry vector is a circular
polynucleotide that comprises a selectable marker, an origin of replication, and a DNA
segment immediately flanked by two restriction sites that facilitate the subcloning of different
DNA segments to be assembled in the assembly methods provided herein. The entry vector
further comprises one or two annealable linker nucleic acid sequences, or an annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence and a primer binding segment, flanking the restriction sites. The
entry vector further comprises an additional pair of restriction sites positioned at the outer
flanks of the DNA segment, e.g., that flank the one or two annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences, or the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence and primer binding segment. Thus,
in some embodiments, the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to
3' orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a
restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, and a restriction site RB. In
other embodiments, the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation, a restriction site RA, a restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site
RZ, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB. In other
embodiments, the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3'
                                                 105

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
orientation, a restriction site RA, a primer binding segment PA or an annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence LA, a restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, a
primer binding segment PB or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a
restriction site RB.
[00300]          In some embodiments, the sequence of the DNA segment D of the entry vector
is the lac Z reporter gene. The lac Z reporter gene is useful for facilitating blue/white
selection of colonies transformed with vectors comprising DNA segments other than lac Z,
e.g., during the preparation of an assembly vector described herein.
[00301]          In some embodiments, the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that
comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence LA, a restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, and a restriction
site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-RY-D-RZ-RB-3'). In some embodiments, the entry vector is a
circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, a
restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence LB, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-RY-D-RZ-LB-RB-3').          In some
embodiments, the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a restriction
site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence
LB, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-RY-D-RZ-LB-RB-3').          In some embodiments,
the entry vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a
restriction site RA, a primer binding segment PA, a restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a
restriction site RZ, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB
(i.e., 5'-RA-PA-RY-D-RZ-LB-RB-3'). In some embodiments, the entry vector is a circular
polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site
RZ, a primer binding segment PB, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-RY-D-RZ-PB
RB-3'). An exemplary entry vector is provided in FIG. 1A.
[00302]          The primer binding segment can be any nucleotide sequence that is not
complementary with any of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequences that are used to
make an assembled polynucleotide. In some embodiments, the primer binding segment
includes a restriction endonuclease recognition and cleavage site. In some embodiments, the
primer binding segment is simply one of the available linker nucleic acid sequences that are
not being used in a particular assembly reaction.
                                                 106

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[003031          In some embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence of annealable linker nucleic
acid sequence LA or LB is at least 24 nucleotides and has a Tm of at least 60 'C. The
restriction sites RY and RZ can be utilized as cloning sites to introduce various DNA
segments for the generation of an assembly vector. In some embodiments, RY and RZ are
not identical in sequence. In some embodiments, RY and RZ are cleavable by the same
restriction endonuclease. In some embodiments, RY and RZ are identical in sequence. In
some embodiments, restriction sites RY and RZ are cleavable by a restriction endonuclease
that generates staggered ends, i.e. termini having a 5' or 3' overhang. In other embodiments,
restriction sites RY and RZ are cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that generates blunt
ends.
[00304]          Although restriction sites RY and RZ can be any restriction site known in the
art, restriction sites recognized by the Type IIS restriction endonucleases are particularly
useful. Type IIS restriction endonucleases have DNA binding domains that are distinct from
their cleavage domains. Therefore, they recognize a specific sequence but cleave at a defined
distance away. For example, the Type IIS restriction endonuclease SchI (which is also
known as MlyI) binds to a recognition site containing the sequence GAGTC and cleaves four
(4) base pairs away from the recognition site, creating a blunt ended DNA molecule. Type
IIS restriction sites are particularly useful for the preparation of an assembly vector from an
entry vector. For example, in a subcloning procedure wherein the DNA segment of an entry
vector, for example lacZ, is replaced with a DNA segment of interest, excision of lacZ with a
Type IIS restriction endonuclease can result in complete removal of the restriction site
recognition sequence. As a result, upon ligation of the DNA segment of interest to the
linearized entry vector, extraneous sequence between the annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence or the primer binding segment and the newly introduced DNA segment is
minimized.
[003051          Thus, in some embodiments, restriction sites RY and RZ are restriction sites
recognizable and cleavable by any Type IIS restriction endonuclease known in the art.
Suitable Type IIS restriction endonucleases include but are not limited to the following
endonucleases and their isoschizomers, which are indicated in parentheses: Alw26I (BsmAI),
AlwI (AclWI, BinI), AsuHPI (HphI), BbvI (Bst7lI), Bcefl, BstF5I (BseGI, FokI), Faul,
HgaI, SapI (LguI), MboII, Plel, SapI, SchI (MlyI), SfaNI, and TspRI, AcellI, BbsI (BbvII,
BpiI, BpuAI), Bce83I, BciVI, BfiI (BmrI), BpmI (GsuI), BsaI (Eco3 11), BseRl, BsgI, BsmBI
(Esp3I), BsmFI, BspMI, BsrDI (Bse3DI), Bsu6I (Eam1 1041, Earl, Ksp6321), Eco57I, Faul,
                                                 107

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
MmeI, RleAI, TaqIl, and Tthi 1111. In particular embodiments, restriction sites RY and RZ
are recognizable and cleavable by the SchI restriction endonuclease.
[003061          In some embodiments, RA and RB are not identical in sequence. In some
embodiments, RA and RB are cleavable by the same restriction endonuclease. In some
embodiments, RA and RB are identical in sequence. In some embodiments, restriction sites
RA and RB are cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that generates staggered ends, i.e.
termini having a 5' or 3' overhang. In other embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are
cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that generates blunt ends.
[00307]          Although restriction sites RA and RB can be any restriction sites known in the
art, restriction sites that are relatively infrequent in DNA (e.g., cDNA) of one or more
organisms (i.e., an infrequent cutter) are particularly useful. In some embodiments,
restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that
has relatively infrequent restriction sites in human DNA. In some embodiments, restriction
sites RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has
relatively infrequent restriction sites in mouse DNA. In some embodiments, restriction sites
RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has relatively
infrequent restriction sites in yeast DNA, for example, in the DNA of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae,Pichiapastoris,Kluyveromyces lactis, Arxula adeninivorans,or Hansenula
polymorpha. In some embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and
cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has relatively few restriction sites in the DNA of
bacteria, for example, in the DNA of Escherichiacoli or Bacillus subtilis.
[00308]          In some embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and
cleavable by a Type IIS restriction endonuclease wherein the recognition site is distal to the
polynucleotide sequence comprising, e.g., PA/LA-D-PB/LB. In some embodiments, each
restriction site RA and RB is independently recognizable and cleavable by a restriction
endonuclease selected from the group consisting of MssI, NruI (Bsp68I, MluB2I, Sbo 131,
Spol), SnaBI (BstSNI, Eco 1051), Srfl, and Swal (BstRZ246I, BstSWI, MspSWI, Smil),
HpaI, HincIl, PshAI, Olil, Alul, Alw26I, BalI, Dral, DpnI, EcoR47III, EcoRCRI, EcoRV,
FokI, HaeIII, HincIl, MboI, MspAlI, NaeI, RsaI, PvuII, Scal, SmaI, SspI, Stul, XmnI,
EcaBC3I, Scil, HincIl, Dral, BsaBI, Cac8I, Hpy8I, MlyI, PshAI, SspD51, BfrBI, BsaAI,
BsrBI, BtrI, CdiI, CviJI, CviRl, Eco47III, Eco78I, EcoICRI, FnuDII, FspAI, HaeI, LpnI,
MlyI, MslI, MstI, NaeI, NlaIV, NruI, NspBII, Olil, PmaCI, PshAI, Psil, Srfl, Stul, XcaI,
XmnI, ZraI, and isoschizomers thereof. In a particular embodiment, restriction sites RA and
                                                  108

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
RB are recognizable and cleavable by the SapI or LguI restriction endonuclease. LguI is an
isoschizomer of SapI having the same recognition and cleavage specificity.
[00309]          In some embodiments, the entry vector provided herein also comprises one or
more nucleic acid sequences that generally have some function in the replication,
maintenance, or integrity of the vector (e.g., origins of replication) as well as one or more
selectable markers. Replication origins are unique polynucleotides that comprise multiple
short repeated sequences that are recognized by multimeric origin-binding proteins and that
play a key role in assembling DNA replication enzymes at the origin site. Suitable origins of
replication for use in the entry and assembly vectors provided herein include but are not
limited to E. coli oriC, colE1 plasmid origin, 2 t and ARS (both useful in yeast systems), sfl,
SV40 EBV oriP (useful in mammalian systems), or those found in pSC101. Selectable
markers can be useful elements in vectors as they provide a means to select for or against
growth of cells that have been successfully transformed with a vector containing the
selectable marker and express the marker.
[00310]          In some embodiments, any vector may be used to construct the entry vector as
provided herein. In particular, vectors known in the art and those commercially available
(and variants or derivatives thereof) may be engineered to include a restriction site RA,
optionally a primer binding segment PA or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a
restriction site RY, a DNA segment D, a restriction site RZ, optionally a primer binding
segment PB or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB, for
use in the methods provided herein. Such vectors may be obtained from, for example, Vector
Laboratories Inc., InVitrogen, Promega, Novagen, NEB, Clontech, Boehringer Mannheim,
Pharmacia, EpiCenter, OriGenes Technologies Inc., Stratagene, Perkin Elmer, Pharmingen,
Life Technologies, Inc., and Research Genetics. General classes of vectors of particular
interest include prokaryotic and/or eukaryotic cloning vectors, expression vectors, fusion
vectors, two-hybrid or reverse two-hybrid vectors, shuttle vectors for use in different hosts,
mutagenesis vectors, transcription vectors, vectors for receiving large inserts, and the like.
Other vectors of interest include viral origin vectors (M13 vectors, bacterial phage k vectors,
adenovirus vectors, and retrovirus vectors), high, low and adjustable copy number vectors,
vectors that have compatible replicons for use in combination in a single host (PACYC 184
and pBR322) and eukaryotic episomal replication vectors (pCDM8).
                                               109

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
         5.14    Assembly Vectors
[00311]          In some embodiments, an assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that
comprises a selectable marker, an origin of replication, and a DNA segment flanked by an
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pair, or
by an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence / primer binding segment pair, flanked by a
pair of restriction sites. The restriction sites can serve to facilitate excision of the component
polynucleotide from the assembly vector backbone during the assembly reaction. Thus, in
some embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to
3' orientation, a restriction site RA, a primer binding segment PA or an annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence LA, a DNA segment D, and a restriction site RB. In some
embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation, a restriction site RA, a DNA segment D, a primer binding segment PB or an
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB. In certain
embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3'
orientation, a restriction site RA, a primer binding segment PA or an annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence LA, a DNA segment D, a primer binding segment PB or an annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB.
[00312]          In some embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that
comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence LA, a DNA segment D, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-D-RB-3'). In
some embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to
3' orientation, a restriction site RA, a DNA segment D, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence LB, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-D-LB-RB-3'). In some embodiments, the
assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a
restriction site RA, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a DNA segment D, an
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-D-LB
RB-3'). In some embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular polynucleotide that
comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, a primer binding segment PA, a
DNA segment D, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB, and a restriction site RB
(i.e., 5'-RA-PA-D-LB-RB-3'). In some embodiments, the assembly vector is a circular
polynucleotide that comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a restriction site RA, an annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a DNA segment D, a primer binding segment PB, and a
restriction site RB (i.e., 5'-RA-LA-D-PB-RB-3'). An exemplary assembly vector constructed
from a starter vector is provided in FIG. 3B.
                                                 110

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[003131          In preferable embodiments, the nucleic acid sequences of primer binding
segment PA and primer binding segment PB are not identical. In some embodiments, the
nucleic acid sequence of annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA or LB is at least 24
nucleotides and has a Tm of at least 60 'C. In some embodiments, RA and RB are not
identical in sequence. In some embodiments, RA and RB are cleavable by the same
restriction endonuclease. In some embodiments, RA and RB are identical in sequence. In
some embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are cleavable by a restriction endonuclease
that generates staggered ends, i.e. termini having a 5' or 3' overhang. In other embodiments,
restriction sites RA and RB are cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that generates blunt
ends.
[00314]          Although restriction sites RA and RB can be any restriction sites known in the
art, restriction sites that are relatively infrequent in DNA (e.g., cDNA) of one or more
organisms (i.e., an infrequent cutter) are particularly useful. In some embodiments,
restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that
has relatively infrequent restriction sites in human DNA. In some embodiments, restriction
sites RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has
relatively infrequent restriction sites in mouse DNA. In some embodiments, restriction sites
RA and RB are recognizable and cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has relatively
infrequent restriction sites in yeast DNA, for example, in the DNA of Saccharomyces
cerevisiae,Pichiapastoris,Kluyveromyces lactis, Arxula adeninivorans,or Hansenula
polymorpha. In some embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and
cleavable by a restriction endonuclease that has relatively few restriction sites in the DNA of
bacteria, for example, in the DNA of Escherichiacoli or Bacillus subtilis.
[00315]          In some embodiments, restriction sites RA and RB are recognizable and
cleavable by a Type IIS restriction endonuclease. Illustrativce examples of suitable Type IIS
restriction endonucleases include but are not limited to: MssI, NruI (Bsp68I, MluB2I,
Sbo 131, Spol), SnaBI (BstSNI, Eco 1051), Srfl, and Swal (BstRZ246I, BstSWI, MspSWI,
Smil), HpaI, HinclI, PshAI, Olil, Alul, Alw26I, BalI, Dral, DpnI, EcoR47III, EcoRCRI,
EcoRV, FokI, HaeIII, HinclI, MboI, MspA1I, NaeI, RsaI, PvuII, Scal, SmaI, SspI, Stul,
XmnI, EcaBC3I, Scil, HincIl, Dral, BsaBI, Cac8I, Hpy8I, MlyI, PshAI, SspD51, BfrBI,
BsaAI, BsrBI, BtrI, CdiI, CviJI, CviRl, Eco47III, Eco78I, EcoICRI, FnuDII, FspAI, HaeI,
LpnI, MlyI, MslI, MstI, NaeI, NlaIV, NruI, NspBII, Olil, PmaCI, PshAI, Psil, Srfl, Stul,
XcaI, XmnI, ZraI, or isoschizomers thereof. In a particular embodiment, restriction sites RA
and RB are recognizable and cleavable by the SapI or LguI restriction endonuclease.
                                                  111

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
[003161         Preferably, the DNA segment of an assembly vector does not comprise a
nucleic acid sequence that can be recognized and cleaved by a restriction endonuclease that
can cleave any of restriction sites RA and RB within the assembly vector. This ensures that
the DNA segment remains intact during the first stage of the assembly reaction, during which
the component polynucleotide is excised from the assembly vector backbone. In particular
embodiments, the DNA segment does not comprise a SapI/LguI site and RA and RB are
cleavable by SapI or LguI. Site-directed mutagenesis (see Carter,Bi Chem. J. 237:1-7
(1986); Zoller and Smith, Methods Enzymol. 154:329-50 (1987)), cassette mutagenesis,
restriction selection mutagenesis (Wells et al., Gene 34:315-323 (1985)), oligonucleotide
mediated (site-directed) mutagenesis, PCR mutagenesis, or other known techniques can be
performed to modify any such sequence within the DNA segment either before or after
ligation of the DNA segment to the entry vector.
[003171         In some embodiments, the assembly vector provided herein also comprises
one or more nucleic acid sequences that generally have some function in the replication,
maintenance, or integrity of the vector (e.g., origins of replication) as well as one or more
selectable markers. Replication origins are unique polynucleotides that comprise multiple
short repeated sequences that are recognized by multimeric origin-binding proteins and that
play a key role in assembling DNA replication enzymes at the origin site. Suitable origins of
replication for use in the entry and assembly vectors provided herein include but are not
limited to E. coli oriC, colE1 plasmid origin, 2 t and ARS (both useful in yeast systems), sfl,
SV40 EBV oriP (useful in mammalian systems), or those found in pSC101. Selectable
markers can be useful elements in vectors as they provide a means to select for or against
growth of cells that have been successfully transformed with a vector containing the
selectable marker and express the marker.
[00318]         In some embodiments, any vector may be used to construct the assembly
vector as provided herein. In particular, vectors known in the art and those commercially
available (and variants or derivatives thereof) may be engineered to include a restriction site
RA, a primer binding segment PA or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA, a DNA
segment D, a primer binding segment PB or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB,
and a restriction site RB, for use in the methods provided herein. Such vectors may be
obtained from, for example, Vector Laboratories Inc., InVitrogen, Promega, Novagen, NEB,
Clontech, Boehringer Mannheim, Pharmacia, EpiCenter, OriGenes Technologies Inc.,
Stratagene, Perkin Elmer, Pharmingen, Life Technologies, Inc., and Research Genetics.
                                               112

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
General classes of vectors of particular interest include prokaryotic and/or eukaryotic cloning
vectors, expression vectors, fusion vectors, two-hybrid or reverse two-hybrid vectors, shuttle
vectors for use in different hosts, mutagenesis vectors, transcription vectors, vectors for
receiving large inserts, and the like. Other vectors of interest include viral origin vectors
(M13 vectors, bacterial phage k vectors, adenovirus vectors, and retrovirus vectors), high,
low and adjustable copy number vectors, vectors that have compatible replicons for use in
combination in a single host (PACYC 184 and pBR322) and eukaryotic episomal replication
vectors (pCDM8).
[00319]         An assembly vector can be prepared from an entry vector. Entry vectors are
disclosed in Section 5.13 above. To prepare an assembly vector from an entry vector, the
entry vector can be digested with one or more restriction endonucleases capable of cleaving
RY and RZ thereby linearizing the vector such that it can accept a DNA segment. The DNA
segment can be ligated into RY and RZ sites using standard cloning techniques to generate an
assembly vector of the invention. For example, the DNA segment may be obtained by
standard procedures known in the art from cloned DNA (e.g., a DNA "library"), by chemical
synthesis, by cDNA cloning, or by the cloning of genomic DNA, or fragments thereof,
purified from the desired cell, or by PCR amplification and cloning. See, for example,
Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning, A LaboratoryManual, 3d. ed., Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York (2001); Glover, D.M. (ed.), DNA Cloning:
A PracticalApproach, 2d. ed., MRL Press, Ltd., Oxford, U.K. (1995).
[00320]         An assembly vector can also be prepared from another vector that does not
comprise an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence pair, or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence / primer binding segment pair
flanking the site of insertion of the DNA segment. To prepare an assembly vector from such
a vector, the vector can be digested with one or more restriction endonucleases capable of
cleaving the vector at a site suitable for insertion of a DNA fragment, e.g., at a multiple
cloning site, thereby linearizing the vector such that it can accept a DNA fragment. The
DNA fragment to be inserted can be obtained by standard procedures known in the art such
as, for example, cloning, chemical synthesis, or PCR amplification. The DNA fragment
comprises a DNA segment flanked by an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence, an
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pair or an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence /
primer binding segment pair. Thus, in some embodiments, the DNA fragment comprises, in
a 5' to 3' orientation, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA or a primer binding
segment PA, a DNA segment D, and an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB or a
                                                113

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
primer binding segment PB (i.e., 5'-LA-D-LB-3' or 5'-PA-D-LB-3' or 5'-LA-D-PB-3'). In
some embodiments, the DNA fragment comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a DNA segment
D, and an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LB or a primer binding segment PB (i.e.,
5'-D-LB-3' or 5'-D-PB-3'). In some embodiments, the DNA fragment comprises, in a 5' to
3' orientation, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence LA or a primer binding segment
PA, and a DNA segment D, (i.e., 5'-LA-D-3' or 5'-PA-D-3'). The DNA fragment can
further comprise a pair of restriction sites that flank the annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pair or the annealable linker nucleic
acid sequence / primer binding segment pair and that upon cleavage by a restriction
endonuclease produce termini that are compatible with termini produced by linearising the
vector into which the DNA fragment is to be inserted. Alternatively, the DNA fragment can
generated such that it contains such compatible termini and does not require additional
digestion with a restriction endonuclease to produce the compatible termini. Upon ligation of
the DNA fragment with the linearized vector to generate an assembly vector, the restriction
sites used to generate the compatible termini may be preserved to serve as restriction sites RA
and RB of the assembly vector. Alternatively, the ligation may remove the original
restriction sites but additional restriction sites may be present in the linearised vector that can
serve as restriction sites RA and RB of the assembly vector.
[00321]          Exemplary methods for generating an assembly vector from an entry vector
(i.e., a pRYSE vector) or from another vector (i.e., a pMULE vector) are provided in United
States Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety
          5.15   Annealable Linker Nucleic Acid Sequences
[00322]          In another aspect, provided herein are annealable linker nucleic acid sequences
that flank the DNA segment located within entry vectors and assembly vectors. Annealable
linker nucleic acid sequences provide sequence overlap between adjacent component
polynucleotides in an assembly reaction, and thus serve to prime a component polynucleotide
for assembly into an assembled polynucleotide. Thus, in preferred embodiments, the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequences LA and LB of the entry and assembly vectors are
optimized to provide efficient and accurate priming to complementary annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences during an assembly reaction.
[00323]          In some embodiments, the length of an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence is long enough to provide adequate specificity with its complement annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence, yet short enough to readily anneal to its complement annealable
                                                 114

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
linker nucleic acid sequence at the annealing temperature of the assembly reaction. In some
embodiments, the length of an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is long enough to
allow for host cell mediated homologous recombination with its complement annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence.
[00324]          In some embodiments, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is about 5,
10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, or 80 nucleotides in length. In some
embodiments, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is at least 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20,
22, 24, 26, 28, or 30 nucleotides in length. In some embodiments, the anealable linker
nucleic acid sequence is greater than 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 500, 1000, 5000, or
10,000 nucleotides in length. In some embodiments, the annealable linker is at least 18
nucleotides in length and is a number divisible by three, so as to facilitate read-through
transcription of the linker when ligated to an encoding DNA segment. In particular
embodiments, the annealable linker is 18, 21, 24, 27, 30, 33, 36, 39, 42, 45, 48, 51, 54, 57, or
60 nucleotides in length.
[003251          In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence has a
relatively high melting temperature (Tm), i.e., the temperature at which one half of an
annealed annealable linker nucleic acid sequence duplex will dissociate to become single
stranded. The Tm of an annealable linker can be calculated according to SantaLucia, PNAS,
95:-1460-1465 (1998) using a nearest neighbor algorithm. A relatively high Tm may provide
for more specific priming during an assembly reaction. A relatively high Tm may also allow
combination of the annealing and extension steps of PCR or reduce the amount of time
needed to adjust temperatures between the annealing and extension steps of PCR and thus
enable greater efficiency in using the assembly methods of the invention. Thus, in some
embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence duplex has a Tm of about 60 'C
80 'C. In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence duplex has a Tm of
about 65 'C - 75 0C. In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence
duplex has a Tm of greater than 50 0C, 55 0C, 60 0C, 65 0C, 70 0C, 75 0C, 80 0C, 85 0C,or 90
oC.
[00326]          In some embodiments, annealable linker nucleic acid sequences do not form
appreciable secondary structures (e.g., hairpins, self-dimers) produced via intramolecular
(i.e., within the same molecule) interactions under the conditions of the methods described
herein, either at the DNA level or at the RNA level or at both the DNA and the RNA level.
The presence of secondary structures in DNA can lead to poor or no assembled
polynucleotide yield of the assembly reaction. The presence of secondary structures in RNA
                                                115

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
can lead to decreased translation efficiencies, which are of particular concern when the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is used to assemble component polynucleotides
comprising a promoter and a protein coding sequence inco a assembled polynucleotide in
which the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is positioned between the promoter and the
protein coding sequence. Accordingly, annealable linker nucleic acid sequences useful in the
assembly methods of the present disclosure are designed to not form secondary RNA and/or
DNA structures. The ability of an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence to form secondary
RNA or DNA structures can be determined using software tools such as, for example, IDT
Oligo Analyzer (Integrated DNA Technologies, Coralville, IA), mFold (Zuker 2003 Nucleic
Acids Res. 31 (13), 3406-15), or RNAfold (Hofacker & Stadler (2006) Bioinformatics 22
(10): 1172-6). In general, these tools calculate the Gibbs free energy (AG) for transition of a
sequence from the linear to the folded state. The larger AG, the less likely that the sequence
will form a secondary structure. Accordingly, in some embodiments, annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences are designed to have large AG values for the transition from linear to
folded states. In some embodiments, annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are designed
to have AG values for the transition from linear to folded states that are equal to or greater
than the AG values for the transition from linear to folded states of the n-bases that lie
immediately upstream of the coding sequences of highly expressed genes in the
Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome, where n represents an integer that corresponds to the
number of bases in the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments,
annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are 36 bases long and have a AG value for the
transition from linear to folded states of -I or greater.
[003271         In some embodiments, annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are also
designed to avoid unintended intermolecular interactions (e.g., between different molecules).
Thus, in some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence does not anneal
substantially with any other sequences within the assembly vector that contains the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence (e.g., vector backbone sequences) and/or with any
other sequences within other assembly vectors of the assembly compositions aside from the
complementary annealable linker nucleic acid sequences required for polynucleotide
assembly by the methods provided herein. In some embodiments, an annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence does not anneal substantially with other annealable linker nucleic acid
sequences within assembly vectors of the assembly compositions provided herein.
[003281         In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence has a high
G-C content, i.e., the number of guanine and cytosine nucleotides in the annealable linker
                                                116

    WO 2013/075049                                                        PCT/US2012/065708
nucleic acid sequence as a percentage of the total number of bases in the annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence. Annealable linker nucleic acid sequences that have a high G-C
content are generally useful in the methods of the invention because a high G-C content
generally provides for a high Tm, which in turn may provide for more specific priming during
an assembly reaction and for time and process savings by allowing combination of the
annealing and extension steps of SOE/PCR. In some embodiments, the G-C content of the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is between about 20-80%. In some embodiments, the
G-C content of the annenalable linker nucleic acid sequence is between about 40-60%. In
some embodiments, the G-C content of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is about
40, 45, 50, 55, 60, or 70%. In particular embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence has a G-C content of greater than 70%. Illustrative examples of annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences that have a high G-C content, do not form appreciable secondary
DNA structures, and have a Tm of 70 'C or greater are generally disclosed in United States
Patent No. 8,221,982, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, including
SEQ ID NOS: I to 8 filed therein.
[00329]         In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence has a high
A-T content, i.e., the number of adenine and thymine nucleotides in the annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence as a percentage of the total number of bases in the annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence. A high A-T content may provide for reduced propensity of the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence to form substantial secondary structures, which may
be of particular concern when the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is used to assemble
component polynucleotides comprising a promoter and a protein coding sequence into a
assembled polynucleotide in which the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is positioned
between the promoter and the protein coding sequence. In some embodiments, the A-T
content of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is between about 20-80%. In some
embodiments, the A-T content of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is between
about 40-60%. In some embodiments, the A-T content of the annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence is about 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60%. In some embodiments, the annealable
linker nucleic acid sequence has an A-T content of greater than 30%. Illustrative examples of
annealable linker nucleic acid sequences that comprise a preferred consensus motif, have a
relatively high A-T content, do not form appreciable secondary RNA or DNA structures, and
have a Tm of 65 'C or greater are generally disclosed in United States Patent No. 8,221,982,
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, including SEQ ID NOS: 9 to 23
filed therein.
                                              117

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
[003301          In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence comprises
one or more restriction sites. Incorporation of restriction sites into an annealable linker
nucleic acid sequence allows for the excision of a DNA segment from an entry or assembly
vector while maintaining the restriction sites RA and RB within the entry vector or assembly
vector. Restriction sites within the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence also facilitate
directional subcloning of DNA segments into other entry or assembly vectors. This feature
facilitates the efficient construction of assembly vectors comprising the same DNA segment
but having different annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pairs or primer binding segment
/ annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pairs, for instance, to generate a library of assembly
vectors comprising different annealable linker nucleic acid sequence pairs as described
below. This feature can also obviate the need to re-amplify and sequence a DNA segment to
create additional assembly vectors comprising the DNA segment. Thus, in some
embodiments, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence comprises a unique restriction site.
In some embodiments, the restriction site is a 7-base pair restriction site, i.e., is cleavable by a
restriction endonuclease that recognizes a 7-base pair nucleotide sequence. In some
embodiments, the restriction site is a 8-base pair restriction site. In particular embodiments,
the restriction site within the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence is recognized and
cleavable by MreI, FseI, Sbfl, AsiSI, NotI, AscI, or BbvCI.
[00331]          In some embodiments, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence comprises
a sequence that allows for read-through transcription once the linker is ligated to an encoding
DNA segment. In some embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence allows for
read-through transcription in both the 5' to 3' and 3' to 5' orientation. In these embodiments,
the length of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence, preferably, is a number of
nucleotides divisible by three (3).
[00332]          In particular embodiments, an annealable linker nucleic acid sequence does
not comprise codons that are rarely used in Escherichiacoli (E. coli) or Saccharomyces
cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae). Efficient expression of heterologous genes in E. coli or S.
cerevisiae can be adversely affected by the presence of infrequently used codons, and
expression levels of the heterologous protein often rise when rare codons are replaced by
more common ones. See, e.g., Williams et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 16: 10453-10467, 1988
and Hoog et al., Gene 43: 13-21, 1986. Accordingly, an annealable linker nucleic acid
sequence that comprises a read-through sequence preferably does not comprise rare codons
used in E. coli or S. cerevisiae, so as to enable efficient expression of proteins encoded by a
assembled polynucleotide comprising the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence.
                                                118

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
[003331          In some embodiments, the set of annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are
unique sequences that are not found in an intended host organism. In some embodiments, the
set of annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are unique sequences that are not found in E.
coli. In other embodiments, the set of annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are unique
sequences that are not found in S. cerevisiase.
[00334]          In some embodiments, suitable annealable linker nucleic acid sequences are
identified in a test assembled polynucleotide. A test assembled polynucleotide comprises the
annealable linker nucleic acid sequence to be tested and additional elements that permit
testing of the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence. For example, to test whether an
annealable linker is suitable for assembling a first component polynucleotide comprising a
promoter sequence and a second component polynucleotide comprising a protein coding
sequence to be put under the control of the promoter in the assembled polynucleotide, a test
assembled polynucleotide can be assembled from the first component polynucleotide
comprising, in a 5' to 3' orientation, a primer binding segment or an annealable linker nucleic
acid sequence, a DNA segment comprising the promoter, and the annealable linker nucleic
acid sequence to be tested, and the second component polynucleotide comprising, in a 5' to
3' orientation, the annealable linker nucleic acid sequence to be tested, a DNA segment
encoding a reporter gene (e.g., green fluourescent protein (GFP)), and a primer binding
segment or annealable linker nucleic acid sequence. The test assembled polynucleotide can
be tested in vivo or in vitro for the efficiency of expression of the reporter gene. Similar test
assembled polynucleotides can be assembled to test the suitability of annealable linker
nucleic acid sequences for assembling component polynucleotides comprising DNA
segments comprising other elements, such as an enhancer, terminator, poly-A tail, nuclear
localization signal, mRNA stabilization signal, selectable marker, epitope tag coding
sequence, degradation signal, and the like. The test assembled polynucleotide may comprise
additional component polynucleotides that enable testing, such as for example, genomic
targeting sequences and selectable markers that enable introduction of the test assembled
polynucleotide into host cells and selection of positive transformants for in vivo testing.
6.      INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[003351          All publications, patents and patent applications cited in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the
foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for
                                                119

purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in
the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications can be
made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims. The
embodiments of the present invention described above are intended to be merely exemplary,
and those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
experimentation, numerous equivalents to the specific procedures described herein. All such
equivalents are considered to be within the scope of the present invention and are covered by
the following claims. Furthermore, as used in this specification and claims, the singular
forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural forms unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.
[003361          In the specification and the claims the term "comprising" shall be understood
to have a broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any
other integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on
the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
[003371          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms
part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                  120

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
        1.      A method of defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into
a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the method comprising:
        (A) receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR" }, wherein n is a
positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR} specifying a
genetic change to L;
        (B) expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} into a corresponding component
polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides;
        (C) arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a contiguous
arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine
component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into the contiguous
arrangement ARi;
        (D) repeating the arranging (C) until a set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous
arrangements are formed, wherein m is a positive integer greater than 1, the set of {AR 1 ,
ARm} contiguous arrangements representing a plurality of different contiguous arrangements
of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides;
        (E) determining a score Si for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi in {AR 1 ,
    ARm}, wherein, for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi, a contribution to the
score Si is made when one or more source constructs are identified as being physically
present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or more physically present source
constructs encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or 5'
terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the
one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present
source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid sequence that was used for
the corresponding component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form the ARi; and
        (F) selecting a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR1 , ... , ARm} having a score Si
that meets a selection criterion as an optimal contiguous arrangement, wherein ARf, defines
the engineered nucleic acid construct,
                wherein at least one of the receiving (A), expanding (B), arranging (C),
repeating (D), determining (E), and selecting (F) is performed using one or more suitably
programmed computers.
                                               121

     WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
         2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising: (G) calculating, in response to
 selection of the ARf, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARf, wherein each primer pair
 in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of the ARf not represented
 in any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for the ARf,
 wherein the portions of the contiguous arrangement ARf amplified by the one or more primer
 pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present
 source constructs identified for the ARf, in the order specified in the ARf, collectively define
 the engineered nucleic acid construct.
        3.       The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein
         the arranging (C) comprises inserting a selectable marker having a nucleic acid
 sequence into the contiguous arrangement ARi, and
         the set of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm} represents a plurality of different
 contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides and the selectable marker with respect to each other.
        4.       The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the score Si for each respective
ARi is a function of a number of component polynucleotides already arranged according to the
contiguous arrangement specified by ARi in the one or more physically present constructs
selected by ARi by the determining (E).
        5.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein a nucleic acid request in the
plurality of nucleic acid requests specifies insertion of an insertion sequence at L.
        6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a promoter
and a gene to be expressed by the promoter.
        7.       The method of claim 5, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a divergent
promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter.
        8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
                                                122

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
        9.        The method of claim 5, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a promoter,
a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid substitution, a
point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation.
        10.       The method of claim 5, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a fusable
open reading frame without a stop codon.
        11.       The method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the nucleic acid request
specifies that the entire genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        12.       The method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the nucleic acid request
specifies that a promoter and a gene at L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        13.       The method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the nucleic acid request
specifies that a divergent promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent
promoter at L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        14.       The method of claim 13, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
        15.       The method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the nucleic acid request
specifies that a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a
nucleic acid substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L is
to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        16.       The method of any one of claims 5-10, wherein the nucleic acid request
specifies that a fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is to be replaced by the
insertion sequence.
        17.       The method of any one of claims 5-16, wherein the insertion sequence
includes a first copy of a gene in a 3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5' to
3' orientation, and a bi-directional promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
                                                 123

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
         18.     The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the arranging (C) comprises
barring an ARi that would cause a repeat sequence of greater than a predetermined number of
bases to arise in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         19.     The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the calculating (G) comprises
applying at least one design rule to identify primers in the one or more primer pairs.
        20.      The method of claim 19, wherein the at least one design rule is (i) avoidance
of hair pin termini, (ii) avoidance of self-dimerization, (iii) primer length between 17 and 28
bases, (iv) percent G+C content between fifty and sixty percent, (v) melting temperature
between 55'C and 80'C, or (vi) avoidance of runs of three or more Cs or Gs at the 3'
terminus.
        21.      The method of any one of claims 1-20, wherein a first component
polynucleotide is identical to a second component polynucleotide in the plurality of
component polynucleotides and wherein the arranging (C) comprises barring a contiguous
arrangement that would cause the first component polynucleotide and the second component
polynucleotide to run in the same direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
        22.      The method of claim 3, wherein an identity of the selectable marker is
received with the plurality of nucleic acid requests in the receiving (A).
        23.      The method of claim 3, wherein an identity of the selectable marker is
determined without human intervention from a predetermined list of selectable markers by the
arranging (C).
        24.      The method of 2, wherein the calculating (G) comprises encoding a linker
nucleic acid sequence specified for contiguous arrangement ARf by the arranging (C) into a
primer in the one or more primer pairs calculated for ARf.
        25.      The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the expanding (B) comprises
expanding a first nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} into a first component polynucleotide
and a second component polynucleotide, wherein the first component polynucleotide is a
promoter and the second component polynucleotide is a gene.
                                                124

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
         26.        The method of claim 1, wherein
          the determining (E) comprises determining whether a source construct having all or a
 subset of the plurality of component polynucleotides, in the contiguous order specified by the
 contiguous arrangement ARi, is present in the freezer store, and
          a contribution the source construct makes to the score Si for the contiguous
 arrangement ARi is dependent upon a number of component polynucleotides in the source
 construct that are in the contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi.
         27.        The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein each source construct in the
freezer store comprises a linker nucleic acid sequence, selected from a predetermined library
of linker nucleic acid sequences, bound to a 3' end or a 5' end of a component polynucleotide.
         28.        The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein
          the determining (E) comprises identifying a first source construct in the freezer store,
 the first source construct having a first subset of the plurality of component polynucleotides,
 in the contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi,
          the determining (E) comprises identifying a second source construct in the freezer
 store, the second source construct having a second subset of the plurality of component
 polynucleotides, in the contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi,
          there is no overlap between the first subset and the second subset,
          a first contribution to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement ARi is based upon a
 number of component polynucleotides in the first source construct that are in the contiguous
 order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi, and
          a second contribution to the score Si for the contiguous arrangement ARi is based
 upon a number of component polynucleotides in the second source construct that are in the
 contiguous order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi.
         29.        The method of any one of claims 1-27, wherein:
          the determining (E) comprises identifying a set of {C1,    ... , CQ} source constructs in
 the freezer store, wherein q is a positive integer greater than 1, for a contiguous arrangement
 Ari in the set of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each respective source construct
 Ci in {C1 , ... , CQ} having a corresponding subset Si of component polynucleotides in the
 plurality of component polynucleotides, in the contiguous order specified by the contiguous
                                                   125

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
  arrangement Ari, wherein the corresponding subset Si of component polynucleotides is not
  found in any other source construct in {C1 , ... , Cq}, and
           a contribution to the score Si for ARi from each respective Ci in {C1, ... , CQ} is based
  upon a number of component polynucleotides in Ci that are in a contiguous order specified by
  ARi.
          30.       The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein the freezer store comprises
 1000 source constructs.
          31.       The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein the freezer store comprises
 10,000 source constructs.
          32.       The method of any one of claims 1-3 1, wherein the plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI} comprises between 2 and 12 nucleic acid requests.
          33.       The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein a nucleic acid request in
 {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} specifies a point mutation in a gene at genomic locus L and wherein the
expanding (B) obtains a nucleic acid sequence of the gene and modifies the nucleic acid
sequence of the gene to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides.
          34.       The method of any one of claims 1-31, wherein a nucleic acid request in
 {NR 1 , ... , NRI} is a request that an exogenous gene be inserted at L, and wherein the
expanding (B) comprises obtaining a sequence of the exogenous gene from a database of
nucleic acid sequences to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides.
          35.       The method of claim 3, wherein the engineered nucleic acid construct
comprises a first PCR product having a first part of the selectable marker and a second PCR
product, having a second part of the selectable marker, wherein the first PCR product, running
in the 5' to 3' direction, combines with the second PCR product, running in the 3' to 5'
direction, to form the engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker.
                                                   126

     WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
        36.      The method of any one of claims 1-35 wherein, for each respective nucleic
acid component in the plurality of component polynucleotides, the arranging (C) comprises
incorporating a first linker nucleic acid sequence from a predetermined library of linker
nucleic acid sequences at or near a 5' end of the respective component polynucleotide and a
second linker nucleic acid sequence from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid
sequences at or near the 3' end of the respective component polynucleotide, thereby forming a
bounded component polynucleotide; and
         the determining (E) comprises computing a score Si for each respective contiguous
 arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} based on a number of bounded component
 polynucleotides in the respective contiguous arrangement ARi that are in the freezer store in
 the order specified by the contiguous arrangement ARi.
        37.      The method of any one of claims 1-36, wherein the engineered nucleic acid
construct comprises a first integration sequence and a second integration sequence for L, the
method further comprising:
                 synthesizing the engineered nucleic acid construct; and
                 contacting the engineered nucleic acid construct with the genome of the target
 organism or host cell under conditions suitable for homologous recombination, thereby
 achieving the plurality of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} nucleic acid requests at L.
        38.      The method of any one of claims 1-37, wherein the linker nucleic acid
sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences
consisting of 100 linker nucleic acid sequences or less.
        39.      The method of any one of claims 1-37, wherein the linker nucleic acid
sequences are selected from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences
consisting of 50 linker nucleic acid sequences or less.
        40.      The method of any one of claims 1-39, wherein a contiguous arrangement ARi
in the set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous arrangements comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
                                   A = an ordered set {X1,    ... X
         wherein,
                                                  127

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
                         t is a positive integer greater than 1,
                         each i is an integer in the set of integers{1, ... , t
                         each Xi comprises 5' - LAi - NAi - LBi - 3',
                 each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence selected from a predetermined
         library of linker nucleic acid sequences,
                         each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides,
                         each LBi, for i less than t, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is
 capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAj1 , thereby forming a nucleic acid construct
 comprising the nucleic acid sequence:
                            5' - LA1 - NA,     ... ,LB 1 - NA, - LB-     3'.
        41.      The method of claim 40, wherein the contiguous arrangement ARi further
comprises:
                                          B  = NAo - LBO, and
                                          C  = LAt+i - NAt+1,
                 wherein
                 LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence selected from a predetermined library of
         linker nucleic acid sequences,
                         NAo and NAti are each component polynucleotides in the plurality of
 component polynucleotides, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3'
 orientation,
                                          A, B, C, and
                 wherein
                         LBO, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
 hybridizing to the complement of LA 1 , and
                                                   128

     WO 2013/075049                                                                PCT/US2012/065708
                          LBt, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
 hybridizing to the complement of LA        11, so that the nucleic acid construct comprises the
 nucleic acid sequence:
                        5' - NAo - LBo, .. ,LBt_1 - NAt - LBt - NAt11 - 3'.
        42.       The method of claim 40, wherein the determining (E) comprises determining
whether a source construct in the freezer store comprises an Xi in the ordered set {X1, ... , X1 }.
        43.       The method of claim 40, wherein the determining (E) comprises determining
whether a source construct in the freezer store comprises a plurality of Xi in a contiguous
order specified by the ordered set {X1, ... , X1 }.
        44.       The method of claim 40, wherein, upon denaturation of Xi in A, each LBi, for i
less than t, is capable of selectively hybridizing to the complement of LAiti compared to each
other linker nucleic acid sequence LAy or LBy, or their complements, in A, wherein each y is
an integer, other than i, in the set of integers { 1.,      t}.
        45.       The method of claim 40, wherein an LAi or an LBi of an Xi in A is at least 24
nucleotides in length and has a melting temperature of at least 60 0 C.
        46.       The method of any one of claims 1-39, wherein a contiguous arrangement ARi
in the set of {ARI, ... , ARm} contiguous arrangements comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
                                   D = an ordered set {Qi,      ... Q,
         wherein,
                          a is a positive integer greater than 1,
                          each i is an integer in the set of integers { 1, ... , a
                          each  Qi comprises    5' - RAi - LAi - NAi - LBi - RBi - 3',
                  each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence selected from a predetermined
         library of linker nucleic acid sequences,
                                                    129

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
                         each NAi is a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides, and
                         each LBi, for i less than a, upon denaturation to single stranded form
 and upon cleavage of each restriction site RA, and RBi, is capable of hybridizing to the
 complement of LAi. 1 , thereby forming the engineered nucleic acid construct comprising the
 nucleic acid sequence:
                             5' - LAI - NAi,  ...   ,LBa-i - NAa - LBa - 3'.
        47.       The method of claim 46, wherein each restriction site RA, and each restriction
site RBi is independently cleavable by one or more type IIS restriction endonucleases, wherein
each of restriction site RAi and each restriction site RBi is oriented so that cleavage of a
respective restriction site RAi and a respective restriction site RBi separates their recognition
and cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic acid molecule LAi - NAi - LBi,
        48.       The method of claim 46, wherein the contiguous arrangement ARi further
comprises:
                                      E  = RAo - NAo - LBo - RBo, and
                                     F =  RAa+1   -  LAa+1  - NAa+- RBa+1,
                  wherein
                  LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence selected from a predetermined library of
         linker nucleic acid sequences,
                         restriction sites RAO, RBo, RAa+1 and RBa+1 are each independently
 cleavable by one or more type IIS restriction endonucleases,
                         restriction sites RAO and RBo are oriented so that cleavage of RAO and
 RBo separates their respective recognition and cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic acid
 molecule that comprises NAo - LBO,
                         restriction sites RAa+1 and RBa+1 are oriented so that cleavage of RAav+1
 and RBa+1 separates their respective recognition and cleavage sites from the resulting nucleic
 acid molecule that comprises NAa+ - LBa-+1, and
                         NAo and NAa+ are each component polynucleotides in the plurality of
 component polynucleotides, the contiguous arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3'
 orientation,
                                                    D, E, F, and
                                                    130

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
                  wherein
                          LBo, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon cleavage of
 RBo, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LA 1 , and
                          LB,, upon denaturation to single stranded form and upon cleavage of
 RBa, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAa+, so that the nucleic acid construct
 comprises the nucleic acid sequence:
                       5' - NAo - LBo,        ,LBa-1- NAa - LBa - NAa+1 - 3'.
        49.       The method of claim 46, wherein the determining (E) comprises determining
whether a source construct in the freezer store comprises a   Qi in the ordered set {Q1, ... , Qa}.
        50.       The method of claim 46, wherein the determining (E) comprises determining
whether a source construct in the freezer store comprises a plurality of Qi in a contiguous
order specified by the ordered set {Q1, ... , Qa}.
        51.       The method of claim 46, wherein, upon denaturation of Qi in D and upon
cleavage of each restriction site RAi and RBi in D, each LBi, for i less than a, is capable of
selectively hybridizing to the complement of LAi. 1 compared to each of the other linker
nucleic acid sequences LAy or LBy, or their complements, in D, wherein each y is an integer,
other than i, in the set of integers { 1., a}.
        52.       The method of claim 46, wherein an LAi or an LBi in a    Qi in D is at least 24
nucleotides in length and has a melting temperature of at least 60 0 C.
        53.       The method of claim 46, wherein each RAi and each RBi in Q is cleavable by
SapI or LguI restriction endonuclease.
        54.       The method of any one of claims 1-53, wherein a source construct in the one
or more physically present source constructs is circular.
        55.       The method of any one of claims 1-54, wherein the set of contiguous
arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm} consists of each possible unique complete contiguous
arrangement of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides.
                                                131

     WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
         56.      The method of any one of claims 1-54, wherein the set of contiguous
arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm} consists of a randomized subset of all possible unique complete
contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
polynucleotides.
         57.      The method of any one of claims 1-56, wherein a nucleic acid request
references a gene that is to be mutated, deleted from, or integrated in L and wherein the
expanding (B) comprises validating that the gene exists in an electronic gene database.
         58.      The method of any one of claims 1-57, wherein the expanding (B) comprises
obtaining a nucleic acid segment specified by a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,}
from an electronic database of nucleic acid sequences and incorporating the nucleic acid
segment into the component polynucleotide associated with the nucleic acid request NRi.
         59.      The method of claim 58, wherein the nucleic acid segment is a portion of a
gene, a promoter, a terminator, or a gene.
         60.      The method of any one of claims 1-59, wherein the nucleic acid request NRi
specifies a nucleic acid segment having an approximate start point or an approximate end
point and wherein the expanding (B) defines an exact start point or an exact endpoint for the
nucleic acid segment for incorporation into a component polynucleotide corresponding to NRi
based on one or more endpoint selection criteria.
         61.      The method of claim 60, wherein an endpoint selection criterion in the one or
more endpoint selection criteria is avoiding low complexity DNA sequence or avoiding a
restriction site.
         62.      The method of any one of claims 1-57, wherein the expanding (B) comprises:
          obtaining a nucleic acid segment specified by a nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
 NR,,}, and
          inverting the nucleic acid segment relative to a naturally occurring orientation of the
 nucleic acid segment prior to incorporation of the nucleic acid segment into a component
 polynucleotide associated with the nucleic acid request NRi.
                                                132

     WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
          63.       The method of any one of claims 1-62, wherein a nucleic acid request NRi in
 {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} specifies an inline sequence to be incorporated into a component
polynucleotide corresponding to NRi during said expanding (B).
          64.       The method of any one of claims 1-63, wherein the genetic change in a nucleic
acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} specifies a nucleic acid segment within a gene that is to be
rewritten with one or more synonymous codons before incorporation into the component
polynucleotide corresponding to NRi during said expanding (B).
          65.       The method of claim 64, wherein the genetic change in the nucleic acid
request specifies that the nucleic acid segment is to be rewritten, before incorporation into the
component polynucleotide, with synonymous codons so that the nucleic acid segment is
maximally dissimilar relative to a naturally occurring instance of the nucleic acid segment.
          66.       The method of any one of claims 1-65, wherein the plurality of nucleic acid
requests {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} is in a data input construct, and wherein the data input construct
further comprises one or more pragmas to be used in performing the expanding (B), arranging
(C) or calculating (G).
          67.       The method of claim 66, wherein a pragma in the one or more pragmas
specifies a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences.
          68.       The method of claim 66, wherein a pragma in the one or more pragmas
specifies whether the engineered nucleic acid construct is:
           (i) a single construct or,
           (ii) a two part construct comprising a first PCR product having a first part of a
  selectable marker and a second PCR product, having a second part of the selectable marker,
  wherein the first PCR product, running in the 5' to 3' direction, combines with the second
  PCR product, running in the 3' to 5' direction, to form the engineered nucleic acid construct
  with the selectable marker.
          69.       The method of claim 66, wherein a pragma in the one or more pragmas
specifies a selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence to be incorporated into each
contiguous arrangement ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}.
                                                   133

    WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
         70.      The method of claim 66, wherein a pragma is between a first nucleic acid
request and a second nucleic acid request in the data input construct and wherein the pragma
directs the arranging (C) to not place a linker nucleic acid sequence between a first component
polynucleotide specified by the first nucleic acid request and a second component
polynucleotide specified by the second nucleic acid request in each contiguous arrangement
ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}.
         71.      The method of claim 70, wherein the first component polynucleotide
comprises a promoter and the second component polynucleotide comprises a gene.
         72.      The method of claim 66, wherein a pragma in the one or more pragmas
specifies a reference genome to be used by the expanding (B) to generate the corresponding
component polynucleotide for a nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
         73.      The method of any one of claims 1-72, wherein the selection criterion is a
score that is higher than the score Si of any other contiguous arrangement ARi in {ARi, ... ,
ARm}.
         74.      The method of any one of claims 1-72, wherein the selection criterion is a
score that is lower than the score Si of any other contiguous arrangement ARi in {ARi, ... ,
ARm}.
         75.      The method of any one of claims 1-72, wherein the selection criterion is
identification of the first ARi in {ARi, ... , ARm} to have a score that exceeds a predetermined
threshold.
         76.      The method of any one of claims 1-72, wherein the selection criterion is
identification of the first ARi in {ARi, ... , ARm} to have a score that is less than a
predetermined threshold.
         77.      The method of any one of claims 1-76, the method comprising outputting the
nucleic acid construct to a tangible memory or a computer monitor.
         78.      The method of any one of claims 1-77, wherein the expanding (B) iterates
between (i) expansion of {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} to a parse tree and (ii) using the parse tree to rewrite
                                                 134

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
 {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} in simpler form, until no NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} can be rewritten in simpler
form.
          79.       The method of claim 3, wherein the engineered nucleic acid construct
comprises a first PCR product having a first part of the selectable marker, and a second PCR
product having a second part of the selectable marker, wherein the first PCR product, oriented
in a 5' to 3' direction, combines with the second PCR product, oriented in a 3' to 5' direction,
to form the engineered nucleic acid construct with the selectable marker, and wherein the one
or more primer pairs comprises a first primer pair and a second primer pair, wherein the first
primer pair defines the termini of the first PCR product and the second primer pair defines the
termini of the second PCR product.
          80.       The method of any one of claims 1-79, wherein one or more instances of the
instructions for arranging (C) are performed concurrently.
          81.       The method of any one of claims 1-80, wherein the one or more physically
present source constructs selected for an ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} collectively encode a portion
of ARi.
          82.       The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more component polynucleotides
in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 90
percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi.
          83.       The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more component polynucleotides
in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 80
percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi.
          84.       The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more component polynucleotides
in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 60
percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi.
          85.       The method of claim 81, wherein the one or more component polynucleotides
in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi is less than 20
percent of a nucleic acid sequence defined by ARi.
                                                  135

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
        86.      The method of claim 1, wherein
         the selecting (F) further comprises selecting a plurality of contiguous arrangements in
  {ARI, ... , ARm}, including ARf, each contiguous arrangement ARi in the plurality of
 contiguous arrangements having a score Si that meets a selection criterion, and
         the calculating (G) further comprises calculating, for each respective contiguous
 arrangement ARi in the plurality of contiguous arrangements, one or more primer pairs based
 upon the respective contiguous arrangement, the one or more primer pairs collectively
 capable of amplifying the portions of the respective contiguous arrangement ARi not
 represented in any identified one or more component polynucleotides in the physically
 present source constructs identified for ARi, wherein the portions of the contiguous
 arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
 polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in
 the order specified in the contiguous arrangement ARi, collectively define an instance of the
 engineered nucleic acid construct.
        87.      The method of claim 86, wherein the plurality of contiguous arrangements
comprises five contiguous arrangements.
        88.      The method of claim 86, wherein the plurality of contiguous arrangements
comprises ten contiguous arrangements.
        89.      The method of claim 1, wherein the target organism is yeast, E. coli, or
baculovirus.
        90.      An apparatus for performing the method of any one of claims 1-89.
        91.      A method of generating a host cell, the method comprising the steps of:
                 (1) assembling an engineered nucleic acid according to the method of any one
 of claims 1-90;
                 (2) transforming a host cell with the engineered nucleic acid construct; and
                 (3) selecting a host cell comprising the engineered nucleic acid construct.
                                                136

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
         92.       The method of claim 91, wherein the engineered nucleic acid construct
comprises a selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence and the selecting (3) comprises
propagating the transformed host cell on selectable media.
         93.       The method of claim 91, wherein the receiving a plurality of {NR 1 , ... , NR"}
nucleic acid requests (A) comprises receiving each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1,        ... , NR,}
in electronic alphanumeric format.
         94.       An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories tangibly encoding a set of
instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the one or more processors, the set of
instructions comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI},
       wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
       NRI} specifying a genetic change to L;
          (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR} into a corresponding
 component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides;
          (C) instructions for arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
 combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi;
          (D) instructions for repeating the instructions for arranging (C) until a set of {AR 1 , ...
 ARm} contiguous arrangements are formed, wherein m is a positive integer greater than 1, the
 set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous arrangements representing a plurality of different
 contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides;
          (E) instructions for determining a score Si for each respective contiguous arrangement
 ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, wherein, for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi, a
 contribution to the score Si is made when one or more source constructs are identified as
 being physically present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or more physically present
 source constructs encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or
 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the
                                                 137

     WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
 one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present
 source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker that was used for the corresponding
 component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi; and
         (F) instructions for selecting a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
 having a score Si that meets a selection criterion as an optimal contiguous arrangement,
 wherein ARf, defines the engineered nucleic acid construct.
        95.      The apparatus of claim 94, further comprising: (G) instructions for calculating,
in response to completion of the instructions for selecting, one or more primer pairs based
upon the final ARf, wherein each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of
amplifying a portion of the ARf not represented in any identified one or more physically
present source constructs identified for the ARf, wherein the portions of the contiguous
arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARf, in
the order specified in the contiguous arrangement ARf, collectively define the engineered
nucleic acid construct.
        96.      A method of defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into
a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the method comprising:
         (A) receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR" }, wherein n is a
 positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR} specifying a
 genetic change to L;
         (B) expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} into a corresponding component
 polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides;
         (C) arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a contiguous
 arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine
 component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into the ARi; and
         (D) selecting, in response to the arranging, one or more source constructs from a
 plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or
 more physically present source constructs encode one or more of the component
 polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each
 respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component polynucleotides encoded
 by the one or more physically present source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker
                                                 138

    WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
 that was used for the corresponding component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form
 the ARi;
          wherein at least one of the expanding (B), arranging (C), and selecting (D) is
 performed using one or more suitably programmed computers.
         97.      The method of claim 96, further comprising: (E) calculating one or more
primer pairs based upon ARi, wherein each primer pair is capable of amplifying a portion of
ARi not represented in any identified one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi, wherein the portions of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs
and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source
constructs identified for the ARi, in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define the
engineered nucleic acid construct.
         98.      The method of claim 96, wherein the arranging (C) comprises inserting a
selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence into the contiguous arrangement Ari.
         99.      The method of any one of claims 96-98, wherein a nucleic acid request in
{NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies insertion of an insertion sequence at L.
         100.     The method of claim 99, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a promoter
and a gene to be expressed by the promoter.
         101.     The method of claim 99, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a divergent
promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter.
         102.     The method of claim 101, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
         103.     The method of claim 99, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a
promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation.
         104.     The method of claim 99, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a fusable
open reading frame without a stop codon.
                                                  139

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
        105.     The method of claim 99, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that the
entire genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        106.     The method of claim 99, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that a
promoter and a gene at L are to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        107.     The method of claim 99, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that a
divergent promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter at L
are to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        108.     The method of claim 107, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
        109.     The method of claim 99, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that a
promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L is to be
replaced by the insertion sequence.
        110.     The method of claim 99, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that a
fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
        111.     The method of claim 99, wherein the insertion sequence includes a first copy
of a gene in a 3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5' to 3' orientation, and a
bi-directional promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
        112.     The method of any one of claims 96-111, wherein the arranging (C) comprises
barring an ARi that would cause a repeat sequence of greater than a predetermined number of
bases to arise in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
        113.     The method of claim 97, wherein the calculating (E) comprises applying at
least one design rule to identify primers in the one or more primer pairs.
        114.     The method of claim 113, wherein the at least one design rule is (i) avoidance
of hairpin termini, (ii) avoidance of self-dimerization, (iii) a primer length between 17 and 28
bases, (iv) a percent G+C content between fifty and sixty percent, (v) a melting temperature
                                                140

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
between 55'C and 80'C, or (vi) avoidance of runs of three or more cytosine or guanines at the
3' terminus of a primer.
         115.    The method of any one of claims 96-114, wherein a first component
polynucleotide is identical to a second component polynucleotide in the plurality of
component polynucleotides and wherein the arranging (C) comprises barring a contiguous
arrangement that would cause the first component polynucleotide and the second component
polynucleotide to run in the same direction in the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         116.    The method of claim 98, wherein an identity of the selectable marker is
received with the plurality of nucleic acid requests in the receiving (A).
         117.    The method of claim 98, wherein an identity of the selectable marker is
determined without human intervention from a predetermined list of selectable markers by the
arranging (C).
         118.    The method of claim 97, wherein the calculating (E) comprises encoding a
linker nucleic acid sequence from a predetermined library of linker nucleic acid sequences
specified for the ARi into one or more primers in the one or more primer pairs calculated for
the ARi.
         119.    The method of any one of claims 96-117, wherein the expanding (B)
comprises expanding a first nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} into a first component
polynucleotide and a second component polynucleotide, wherein the first component
polynucleotide is a promoter and the second component polynucleotide is a gene.
         120.    An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories tangibly encoding a set of
instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the one or more processors, the set of
instructions comprising:
                                                141

     WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
          (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR"},
 wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
 NR,,} specifying a genetic change to L;
          (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR} into a corresponding
 component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence, thereby forming a plurality of
 component polynucleotides;
          (C) instructions for arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
 combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi; and
          (D) instructions for selecting one or more source constructs from a plurality of source
 constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or more physically
 present source constructs encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the
 plurality of component polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5'
 termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component
 polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs is bound to
 a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the respective component
 polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form the ARi.
         121.      The apparatus of claim 120, further comprising: (E) instructions for
calculating one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi, wherein each primer pair in the one
or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of the ARi not represented in any
identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for the ARi, wherein the
portions of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for the ARi,
in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         122.      A method of defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 ,
     ENk}, wherein k is a positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct
ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host
cell, the method comprising:
          (A) receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of
 nucleic acid requests {NRi,1, ... , NRi,}, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,.}
                                                  142

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
 specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, n is a
 positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (B) expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij in {NRji,
 NRi,1} into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence,
 thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides;
         (C) arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the corresponding plurality
 of component polynucleotides from the expanding (B) into a contiguous arrangement ARi,
 wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component
 polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides into ARi,
 thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 ,
     ARm} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}; and
         (D) selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more source
 constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein
 each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in {EN 1 , ...
 ENk} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5'
 termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component
 polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs for a
 respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
 respective component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi;
         wherein at least one of the expanding (B), arranging (C), and selecting (D) is
 performed using one or more suitably programmed computers.
        123.     The method of claim 122, further comprising: (E) calculating, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1,
ARm} that represents ENi, wherein each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs for an ARj
is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified one or more
physically present source constructs identified for ARi, wherein the portions of the contiguous
arrangement ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component
polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in
the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi.
        124.     The method of claim 122, the method further comprising:
                                                 143

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
          (F) synthesizing, for each respective ENi in {ENI., ENj}, ENi, as defined by the
 ARi in {ARI., ARm } that represents ENi, using the one or more primer pairs calculated for
 ARi in the calculating (E) and the one or more physically present source constructs selected
 for ARi in the selecting (D);
                  (G) transforming each respective ENi in {ENI., ENk} synthesized in the
 synthesizing (F) into a different host cell; and
                  (H) selecting a plurality of host cells, wherein each host cell in the plurality of
 host cells comprises an ENi in {ENI., ENk} such that the plurality of host cells represents
 at least sixty percent of {ENI., ENk}.
         125.     The method of claim 124, wherein the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi
comprises a selectable marker having a nucleic acid sequence and the selecting (H) comprises
propagating the transformed host cell on selectable media.
         126.     The method of claim 124, wherein the plurality of {ENI, ... , ENk} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises one hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and wherein
the transforming (G) is performed within two weeks of the expanding (B).
         127.     The method of claim 124, wherein the plurality of {ENI, ... , EN} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises two hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and wherein
the transforming (G) is performed within three weeks of the expanding (B).
         128.     The method of claim 124, wherein the plurality of {ENI, ... , ENk} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises three hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and
wherein the transforming (G) is performed within three weeks of the expanding (B).
         129.     The method of claim 124, wherein the plurality of {ENI, ... , ENk} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises four hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and
wherein the transforming (G) is performed within three weeks of the expanding (B).
         130.     The method of claim 124, wherein the plurality of {ENI, ... , EN} engineered
nucleic acid constructs comprises five hundred engineered nucleic acid constructs and wherein
the transforming (G) is performed within three weeks of the expanding (B).
                                                 144

     WO 2013/075049                                                                PCT/US2012/065708
         131.       The method of claim 122 wherein, for at least one NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI},
          (i) the arranging (C) comprises arranging the plurality of corresponding component
 polynucleotides corresponding to NRi from the expanding (B) into a set of temporary
 contiguous arrangements {TAR1 , ... , TAR} wherein, for each TARi in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz},
 the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences from a predetermined library of linker
 nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides into TARi,
          (ii) a score Sk is determined for each respective TARk in {TAR1 , ... , TARz}, wherein,
 for each respective TARkin {TAR1 , ... , TARz}, the corresponding score Sk is determined by
 a method comprising (a) selecting one or more source constructs from a plurality of source
 constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein the one or more constructs
 collectively encode all a portion of TARk; and (b) calculating Sk based on an amount of TARk
 represented by the one or more source constructs, and
          (iii) selecting the contiguous arrangement TARf in {TAR1 , ... , TARm} having a score
 Sf that meets a selection criterion as the optimal contiguous arrangement, wherein the
 selected TARf is deemed to be the contiguous arrangement ARi for ENi,
          thereby forming {AR 1 , ... , ARk}, wherein each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is for a
 different NRm in {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
         132.       An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of instructions for
defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, wherein k is a
positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}
for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, using the one or
more processors, the set of instructions comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a
 corresponding plurality of {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1} nucleic acid requests, each nucleic acid request
 NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi
 in {EN 1 ,  ... , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm
 in {EN,.., ENk};
          (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij
 in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
                                                    145

    WO 2013/075049                                                               PCT/US2012/065708
 sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
 respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
           (C) instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
 corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the expanding (B) into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
 combine component polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component
 polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 ,
 ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} representing a ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}; and
           (D) instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more
 source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
 wherein each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in
  {EN 1 , ... , EN} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
 component polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both
 the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
 component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
 for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
 respective component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi.
          133.     The apparatus of claim 132, further comprising: (E) instructions for
calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon
the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, wherein each primer pair in the one or more
primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified one or
more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, wherein the portions of ARi
amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in
the one or more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in the order specified
by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi
          134.     An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of instructions for
defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, wherein k is an
integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for
integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the set of instructions
comprising:
                                                  146

    WO 2013/075049                                                               PCT/US2012/065708
         (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a
corresponding plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1} in digital alphanumeric
format, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1 } specifying a genetic change to L,
wherein, for each respective ENi in {EN 1      .    , EN}, n is a positive integer that is the same or
different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1      .    , ENk};
         (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij
in {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (C) instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the instructions for expanding
(B) into a contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the instructions for arranging (C) use linker
nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of
corresponding component polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of
contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 ,      ... , ARm} representing an ENi
in {EN 1 , ... , EN}; and
         (D) instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1     .   , ENk}, one or more
source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
wherein each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in
 {EN 1, ... , ENk} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both
the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi.
         135.      The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: (E) instructions for calculating,
for each respective ENi in {EN 1      .   , ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in
 {AR1, ... , ARm} that represents ENi, wherein each primer pair in the one or more primer
pairs for an ARi is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not represented in any identified
one or more source constructs identified for ARi, wherein the portions of ARi amplified by
the one or more primer pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or
more physically present source constructs identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi,
collectively define the engineered nucleic acid construct ENi.
                                                   147

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
           136.     The apparatus of claim 131 or 132, wherein the set of instructions further
 comprises:
           (F) instructions for outputting to a non-volatile computer memory, a non-transitory
 computer memory, a persistent data storage, a monitor, or a printer, for each respective ENi in
  {EN 1 , .... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1      . , ARk} that
 represents ENi, and the one or more source constructs identified by the instructions for
 calculating (E) for Ei.
          137.      The apparatus of claim 131 or 132, wherein, for each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR},
           (i) the instructions for arranging (C) comprise instructions for arranging the plurality
 of corresponding component polynucleotides corresponding to NRi from the instructions for
 expanding (B) into a set of temporary contiguous arrangements {TAR1 , ... , TARz} wherein z
 is a positive integer greater than 1 and wherein, for each TARi in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, the
 instructions for arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences from a predetermined library
 of linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of
 component polynucleotides into TARi,
           (ii) a score Sk is determined for each respective TARk in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, wherein,
 for each respective TARkin {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, the corresponding score Sk is determined by
 a method comprising (a) selecting one or more source constructs from a plurality of source
 constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein the one or more constructs
 collectively encode all a portion of TARk; and (b) calculating Sk based on an amount of TARk
 represented by the one or more source constructs, and
           (iii) selecting the contiguous arrangement TARf in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz} having a score
 Sf that meets a selection criterion as the optimal contiguous arrangement, wherein the
 selected TARf is deemed to be the contiguous arrangement ARi for ENi,
           thereby forming {AR 1 , ... , ARk}, wherein each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is for a
 different NRm in {NR 1 , ... , NRI}.
          138.      A method for defining a plurality of {EN 1 , ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid
constructs, wherein k is an integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi
in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell,
the method comprising:
           (A) receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of
  {NRi,1, ... , NRi,.} nucleic acid requests in digital alphanumeric format, each nucleic acid
                                                   148

   WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
request NRij in {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1} specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for
each other ENm in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (B) expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, each NRij in {NRi,1,
NRi,1} into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence,
thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each respective
ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (C) arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, the corresponding plurality
of component polynucleotides from the expanding (B) into a contiguous arrangement ARi,
wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to combine component
polynucleotides in the plurality of corresponding component polynucleotides into ARi,
thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARk}, each ARi in {AR 1 ,
    ARk} representing an ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (D) selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more source
constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein
the one or more physically present source constructs collectively encode a portion of the ARi
corresponding to ENi;
         (E) calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs
based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} that represents the respective ENi, wherein each
primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi not
represented in any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for
ARi, wherein the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or
more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic
acid construct ENi; and
         (F) outputting to a non-transitory computer memory, a persistent data storage, a
monitor, or a printer, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more primer pairs
based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} that represents the respective ENi, and the one or more
source constructs identified by the calculating (E) for the respective ENi, wherein
         at least one of the expanding (B), arranging (C), selecting (D) or calculating (E) is
performed using a suitably programmed computer.
        139.      The method of claim 138, wherein, for each NRi in {NR 1,      ... , NR},
                                                 149

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
          (i) the arranging (C) comprises arranging the plurality of corresponding component
 polynucleotides corresponding to NRi from the expanding (B) into a set of temporary
 contiguous arrangements {TAR1 , ... , TARz} wherein, for each TARi in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz},
 the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences from a predetermined library of linker
 nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides into TARi,
          (ii) a score Sk is determined for each respective TARk in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz}, wherein
 z is a positive integer greater than 1, wherein, for each respective TARk in {TAR1 , ... ,
 TARz}, the corresponding score Sk is determined by a method comprising (a) selecting one or
 more source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer
 store, wherein the one or more constructs collectively encode all a portion of TARk; and (b)
 calculating Sk based on an amount of TARk represented by the one or more source constructs,
 and
          (iii) selecting the contiguous arrangement TARf in {TAR 1 , ... , TARz} having a score
 Sf that meets a selection criterion as the optimal contiguous arrangement, wherein the
 selected TARf is deemed to be the contiguous arrangement ARi for ENi,
          thereby forming {AR 1,    ... , ARk}, wherein each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARk} is for a
 different NRq in {NRI, ... , NR,}.
         140.      The method of claim 138, wherein k is ten or greater.
         141.      The method of claim 138, wherein k is one hundred or greater.
         142.      The method of claim 138, wherein k is one thousand or greater.
         143.      An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of instructions for
defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic locus L of a target
organism or a host cell, using the one or more processors, the set of instructions comprising:
          (A) instructions for listing as a table on a display in electronic communication with
 the one or more processors, a first plurality of component polynucleotides physically present
 in a freezer store;
                                                  150

    WO 2013/075049                                                            PCT/US2012/065708
         (B) instructions for receiving a first selection of a first component polynucleotide
from the table by a user;
         (C) instructions for displaying, responsive to the first selection, an icon on the display
for the first component polynucleotide, wherein the icon for the first component
polynucleotide specifies an identity of a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of a
3' linker nucleic acid sequence bound to the first component polynucleotide, wherein the 5'
linker nucleic acid sequence and the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence are present in an
electronic library of linker nucleic acid sequences that is stored in non- transitory form in the
one or more memories; and
         (D) instructions for updating the table on the display, responsive to the first selection,
to list a second plurality of component polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store,
wherein each component polynucleotide in the second plurality of component
polynucleotides comprises a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or a 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence that upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the
complement of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or the complement of the 3' linker nucleic
acid sequence of the first component polynucleotide;
         (E) instructions for receiving a second selection of a second component
polynucleotide from the table by a user;
         (F) instructions for displaying, responsive to the second selection, an icon on the
display for the second component polynucleotide, wherein the icon for the second component
polynucleotide specifies an identity of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of a
the ' linker nucleic acid sequence bound to the second component polynucleotide; wherein
         when the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence of the second component polynucleotide
upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the
3' linker of the first component polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the right of the
first icon on the display, and
         when the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence of the second component polynucleotide
upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the
5' linker of the first component polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the left of the
first icon on the display, and
         wherein the defined engineered nucleic acid construct comprises the first component
polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide.
                                                 151

     WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
        144.     The apparatus of claim 143, wherein the electronic library of linker nucleic
acid sequences consists of 100 linker nucleic acid sequences or less.
        145.     The apparatus of claim 143, wherein the electronic library of linker nucleic
acid sequences consists of 50 linker nucleic acid sequences or less.
        146.     The apparatus of claim 143, wherein the engineered nucleic acid construct
comprises, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
   A = an ordered set of component polynucleotides {X1,        ... , X"} having the sequential order
                                       displayed in the display,
         wherein,
                         n is a positive integer greater than 1,
                         each i is an integer in the set of integers{1, ... , n
                         each Xi comprises 5' - LAi - NA - LBi - 3',
                 each LBi is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the electronic library of linker
         nucleic acid sequences,
                         each NAi is a component polynucleotide,
                         each LBi, for i less than n, upon denaturation to single stranded form,
 is capable of hybridizing to the complement of LAi- 1 , thereby forming the engineered nucleic
 acid construct comprising the nucleic acid sequence:
                            5' - LA1 - NA, ... , LB   1  - NA, - LB-      3'.
        147.     The apparatus of claim 146, wherein:
                                          B = NAo - LBO, and
                                          C = LA 1+I - NA.1
                 wherein
                 LBO is a linker nucleic acid sequence in the electronic library of linker nucleic
         acid sequences,
                                                  152

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
                           NAo and NA, 1 1 are each component polynucleotides, the contiguous
 arrangement ARi comprising, in a 5' to 3' orientation,
                                          A, B, C, and
                  wherein
                           LBO,upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
 hybridizing to the complement of LA 1 , and
                           LB,, upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of
 hybridizing to the complement of LA,1 1 , so that the engineered nucleic acid construct
 comprises the nucleic acid sequence:
                        5' - NAo - LBo,.,     LB,,_1 - NA,, - LB,, - NA.+1 - 3'
         148.     An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of instructions for
determining whether a nucleic acid sequence is present in any source construct in a plurality of
source constructs physically present in a freezer store, using the one or more processors, the
set of instructions comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving a first nucleic acid sequence in electronic alphanumeric
 format using a display in electronic communication with the one or more memories;
          (B) instructions for receiving a matching threshold criterion using the display; and
          (C) instructions for comparing the first nucleic acid sequence with a sequence of each
 respective source construct in the plurality of source constructs, wherein, when a second
 nucleic acid sequence that satisfies the matching threshold criterion is found within the
 sequence of a respective source construct, the instructions for comparing further include
 instructions for displaying an identity of the respective source construct.
         149.     The apparatus of claim 148, wherein the matching threshold criterion is 100
percent sequence identity.
         150.     The apparatus of claim 148, wherein the matching threshold criterion is at
least 90 percent identity.
                                                   153

     WO 2013/075049                                                           PCT/US2012/065708
         151.      The apparatus of claim 148, wherein the plurality of source constructs
comprises 1000 source constructs.
         152.      The apparatus of claim 148, wherein the plurality of source constructs
comprises 10,000 source constructs.
         153.      The apparatus of claim 148, wherein the plurality of source constructs
comprises 100,000 source constructs.
         154.      The apparatus of claim 148, wherein, when a second nucleic acid sequence
that satisfies the matching threshold criterion is found within the sequence of a respective
source construct, the instructions for comparing further include instructions for displaying an
alignment of the second nucleic acid sequence against the first nucleic acid sequence.
          155.     A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
 programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
 programs for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
 locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the one or more programs comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR"},
 wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
 NR,,} specifying a genetic change to L;
          (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} into a corresponding
 component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides;
          (C) instructions for arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
 combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
 contiguous arrangement ARi;
          (D) instructions for repeating the instructions for arranging (C) until a set of {AR 1 ,
 ARm} contiguous arrangements are formed, wherein m is a positive integer greater than 1, the
 set of {AR 1 , ... , ARm} contiguous arrangements representing a plurality of different
 contiguous arrangements of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of component
 polynucleotides;
          (E) instructions for determining a score Si for each respective contiguous arrangement
 ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, wherein, for each respective contiguous arrangement ARi, a
                                                 154

    WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
contribution to the score Si is made when one or more source constructs are identified as
being physically present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or more physically present
source constructs encodes one or more of the component polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or
5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the
one or more component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present
source constructs is bound to a corresponding linker that was used for the corresponding
component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi; and
        (F) instructions for selecting a final contiguous arrangement ARf in {AR 1 , ... , ARm}
having a score Si that meets a selection criterion as an optimal contiguous arrangement,
wherein ARf, defines the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         156.   A non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 155, further
comprising: (G) instructions for calculating, in response to completion of the instructions for
selecting, one or more primer pairs based upon the final ARf, wherein each primer pair in the
one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of the ARf not represented in any
identified one or more physically present source constructs identified for the ARf, wherein the
portions of the contiguous arrangement amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one
or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARf, in the order specified in the contiguous arrangement ARf, collectively
define the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         157.   A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
programs for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the one or more programs comprising:
        (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR"},
wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
NR,,} specifying a genetic change to L;
        (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} into a corresponding
component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence, thereby forming a plurality of
component polynucleotides;
        (C) instructions for arranging the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
                                                155

   WO 2013/075049                                                                  PCT/US2012/065708
combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of component polynucleotides into a
contiguous arrangement ARi; and
         (D) instructions for selecting one or more source constructs from a plurality of source
constructs physically present in a freezer store, wherein each of the one or more physically
present source constructs encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the
plurality of component polynucleotides, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both the 3' and 5'
termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more component
polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs is bound to
a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the respective component
polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form the ARi.
         158.       The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 157, further
comprising: (E) instructions for calculating one or more primer pairs based upon the ARi,
wherein each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of
the ARi not represented in any identified one or more physically present source constructs
identified for the ARi, wherein the portions of the ARi amplified by the one or more primer
pairs and the one or more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present
source constructs identified for the ARi, in the order specified by the ARi, collectively define
the engineered nucleic acid construct.
         159.       A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
programs for defining a plurality of {EN 1 , ... , EN} engineered nucleic acid constructs,
wherein k is a positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in
 {EN1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the
one or more programs comprising:
         (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, a
corresponding plurality of {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1} nucleic acid requests, each nucleic acid request
NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi
in {EN 1,    ... , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm
in {EN,.., EN};
         (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij
in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
                                                    156

     WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
          (C) instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the expanding (B) into a
contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the arranging (C) uses linker nucleic acid sequences to
combine component polynucleotides in the corresponding plurality of component
polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of contiguous arrangements {AR 1 ,
ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} representing a ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}; and
          (D) instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one or more
source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
wherein each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in
 {EN 1 , ... , EN} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both
the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi.
          160.    The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 159, further
comprising: (E) instructions for calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, one
or more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, wherein
each primer pair in the one or more primer pairs is capable of amplifying a portion of ARi
not represented in any identified one or more physically present source constructs identified
for ARi, wherein the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or
more component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs
identified for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic
acid construct ENi.
          161.    A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
programs for defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , EN},
wherein k is an integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 ,
... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the one or
more programs comprising:
                                                 157

    WO 2013/075049                                                               PCT/US2012/065708
         (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a
corresponding plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1} in digital alphanumeric
format, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } specifying a genetic change to L,
wherein, for each respective ENi in {EN 1      .  , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or
different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1     .   , ENk};
         (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij
in {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk};
         (C) instructions for arranging, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, the
corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides from the instructions for expanding
(B) into a contiguous arrangement ARi, wherein the instructions for arranging (C) use linker
nucleic acid sequences to combine component polynucleotides in the plurality of
corresponding component polynucleotides into ARi, thereby forming a plurality of
contiguous arrangements {AR 1 , ... , ARm}, each ARi in {AR 1 ,     ... , ARm} representing an ENi
in {EN1, ...,5EN};
         (D) instructions for selecting, for each respective ENi in {EN 1    .    , ENk}, one or more
source constructs from a plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store,
wherein each of the one or more physically present source constructs for a respective ENi in
 {EN 1, ... , ENk} encode one or more of the component polynucleotides in the plurality of
component polynucleotides for the respective ENi, and wherein a 3' or 5' terminus, or both
the 3' and 5' termini, of each respective component polynucleotide in the one or more
component polynucleotides encoded by the one or more physically present source constructs
for a respective ENi is bound to a corresponding linker nucleic acid that was used for the
respective component polynucleotide in the arranging (C) to form ARi; and
         (E) instructions for calculating, for each respective ENi in {EN 1    .    , ENk}, one or
more primer pairs based upon the ARi in {AR 1 , ... , ARm} that represents ENi, wherein each
primer pair in the one or more primer pairs for an ARi is capable of amplifying a portion of
ARi not represented in any identified one or more source constructs identified for ARi,
wherein the portions of ARi amplified by the one or more primer pairs and the one or more
component polynucleotides in the one or more physically present source constructs identified
for ARi, in the order specified by ARi, collectively define the engineered nucleic acid
construct ENi.
                                                 158

    WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
          162.   A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
programs defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic locus L
of a target organism or a host cell, the one or more programs comprising:
         (A) instructions for listing as a table on a display a first plurality of component
polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store;
         (B) instructions for receiving a first selection of a first component polynucleotide
from the table by a user;
         (C) instructions for displaying, responsive to the first selection, an icon on the display
for the first component polynucleotide, wherein the icon for the first component
polynucleotide specifies an identity of a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of a
3' linker nucleic acid sequence bound to the first component polynucleotide, wherein the 5'
linker nucleic acid sequence and the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence are present in an
electronic library of linker nucleic acid sequences that is stored in non- transitory form in the
one or more memories; and
         (D) instructions for updating the table on the display, responsive to the first selection,
to list a second plurality of component polynucleotides physically present in a freezer store,
wherein each component polynucleotide in the second plurality of component
polynucleotides comprises a 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or a 3' linker nucleic acid
sequence that upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the
complement of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence or the complement of the 3' linker nucleic
acid sequence of the first component polynucleotide;
         (E) instructions for receiving a second selection of a second component
polynucleotide from the table by a user;
         (F) instructions for displaying, responsive to the second selection, an icon on the
display for the second component polynucleotide, wherein the icon for the second component
polynucleotide specifies an identity of the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence and an identity of a
the ' linker nucleic acid sequence bound to the second component polynucleotide; wherein
         when the 5' linker nucleic acid sequence of the second component polynucleotide
upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the
3' linker of the first component polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the right of the
first icon on the display, and
         when the 3' linker nucleic acid sequence of the second component polynucleotide
upon denaturation to single stranded form, is capable of hybridizing to the complement of the
                                                 159

     WO 2013/075049                                                              PCT/US2012/065708
 5' linker of the first component polynucleotide, the second icon is shown to the left of the
 first icon on the display, and
          wherein the defined engineered nucleic acid construct comprises the first component
 polynucleotide and the second component polynucleotide.
          163.    A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
 programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
 programs determining whether a nucleic acid sequence is present in any source construct in a
 plurality of source constructs physically present in a freezer store, the one or more programs
 comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving a first nucleic acid sequence in electronic alphanumeric
 format using a display in electronic communication with the one or more memories;
          (B) instructions for receiving a matching threshold criterion using the display; and
          (C) instructions for comparing the first nucleic acid sequence with a sequence of each
 respective source construct in the plurality of source constructs, wherein, when a second
 nucleic acid sequence that satisfies the matching threshold criterion is found within the
 sequence of a respective source construct, the instructions for comparing further include
 instructions for displaying an identity of the respective source construct.
          164.    A method of defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into
 a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the method comprising:
          (A) receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NR" }, wherein n is a
 positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR} specifying a
 genetic change to L; and
          (B) expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NR,,} into a corresponding component
 polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides, wherein at least
 one of the receiving (A) and expanding (B) is performed using one or more suitably
 programmed computers.
          165.    The method of claim 164, wherein a nucleic acid request in the plurality of
 nucleic acid requests specifies insertion of an insertion sequence at L.
         166.     The method of claim 165, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a
promoter and a gene to be expressed by the promoter.
                                                  160

     WO 2013/075049                                                          PCT/US2012/065708
         167.    The method of claim 165, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a
divergent promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter.
         168.    The method of claim 167, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
          169.   The method of claim 165, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a
 promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a nucleic acid
 substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation.
          170.   The method of claim 165, wherein the insertion sequence comprises a fusable
 open reading frame without a stop codon.
          171.   The method of any one of claims 165-170, wherein the nucleic acid request
 specifies that the entire genomic locus L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
          172.   The method of any one of claims 165-170, wherein the nucleic acid request
 specifies that a promoter and a gene at L is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
          173.   The method of claim 165, wherein the nucleic acid request specifies that a
 divergent promoter and a first gene and a second gene driven by the divergent promoter at L
 is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
          174.   The method of claim 173, wherein the divergent promoter is a back-to-back
 divergent promoter, an overlapping divergent promoter, or a face-to-face divergent promoter.
          175.   The method of any one of claims 165-170, wherein the nucleic acid request
 specifies that a promoter, a gene, a terminator, an open reading frame, a codon substitution, a
 nucleic acid substitution, a point mutation, an insertion mutation, or a deletion mutation at L
 is to be replaced by the insertion sequence.
          176.   The method of any one of claims 165-170, wherein the nucleic acid request
 specifies that a fusible open reading frame without a stop codon is to be replaced by the
 insertion sequence.
                                                161

   WO 2013/075049                                                             PCT/US2012/065708
          177.     The method of any one of claims 165-176, wherein the insertion sequence
includes a first copy of a gene in a 3' to 5' orientation and a second copy of the gene in a 5'
to 3' orientation, and a bi-directional promoter between the first copy and the second copy.
          178.     The method of any one of claims 164-177, wherein the expanding (B)
comprises expanding a first nucleic acid request in {NR 1 , ... , NR"} into a first component
polynucleotide and a second component polynucleotide, wherein the first component
polynucleotide is a promoter and the second component polynucleotide is a gene.
          179.     The method of any one of claims 164-178, wherein the plurality of nucleic
acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI} comprises between 2 and 12 nucleic acid requests.
          180.     The method of any one of claims 164-179, wherein a nucleic acid request in
 {NR 1 , ... , NRI} specifies a point mutation in a gene at genomic locus L and wherein the
expanding (B) obtains a nucleic acid sequence of the gene and modifies the nucleic acid
sequence of the gene to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides.
          181.     The method of any one of claims 164-179, wherein a nucleic acid request in
 {NR 1 , ... , NR} is a request that an exogenous gene be inserted at L, and wherein the
expanding (B) comprises obtaining a sequence of the exogenous gene from a database of
nucleic acid sequences to form a component polynucleotide in the plurality of component
polynucleotides.
          182.     An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of non-transitory
instructions for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell using the one or more processors, the set of
instructions comprising:
          (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NR 1 , ... , NRI},
       wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NR 1 ,
       NRI} specifying a genetic change to L; and
                                                 162

   WO 2013/075049                                                                PCT/US2012/065708
        (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NR 1 , ... , NRI} into a corresponding
component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides.
        183.       A method of defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 ,
    EN}, wherein k is a positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid
construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism
or a host cell, the method comprising:
        (A) receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, a corresponding plurality of
nucleic acid requests {NRi,1, ... , NRi,}, each nucleic acid request NRij in {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,}
specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, n is a
positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}; and
        (B) expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij in {NRi, 1, ... ,
NRi,1} into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid sequence,
thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides.
        184.       An apparatus comprising one or more memories and one or more processors,
wherein the one or more memories and the one or more processors are in electronic
communication with each other, the one or more memories encoding a set of instructions for
defining a plurality of engineered nucleic acid constructs {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, wherein k is a
positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}
for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, using the one or
more processors, the set of instructions comprising:
        (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}, a
corresponding plurality of {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,1} nucleic acid requests, each nucleic acid request
NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,1 } specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi
in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm
in {EN 1 , ... , EN}; and
        (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , ENk}, each NRij
in {NRi,1 , ... , NRi,. } into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN 1 , ... , EN}.
        185.       A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
                                                  163

   WO 2013/075049                                                                  PCT/US2012/065708
programs for defining an engineered nucleic acid construct for integration into a genomic
locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the one or more programs comprising:
         (A) instructions for receiving a plurality of nucleic acid requests {NRI, ... , NR},
wherein n is a positive integer greater than 1, each nucleic acid request NRi in {NRI,
NRI} specifying a genetic change to L; and
         (B) instructions for expanding each NRi in {NRI, ... , NRI} into a corresponding
component polynucleotide, thereby forming a plurality of component polynucleotides.
         186.       A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a system, the one or more
programs for defining a plurality of {ENI, ... , ENk} engineered nucleic acid constructs,
wherein k is a positive integer greater than 1, each engineered nucleic acid construct ENi in
 {EN1 , ... , ENk} for integration into a genomic locus L of a target organism or a host cell, the
one or more programs comprising:
         (A) instructions for receiving, for each respective ENi in {ENI, ... , ENk}, a
corresponding plurality of {NRi,1, ... , NRi,1} nucleic acid requests, each nucleic acid request
NRij in {NRi, 1, ... , NRi,.} specifying a genetic change to L, wherein, for each respective ENi
in {ENI,     ... , ENk}, n is a positive integer that is the same or different as n for each other ENm
in {ENI,     ... , ENk}; and
         (B) instructions for expanding, for each respective ENi in {ENI, ... , ENk}, each NRij
in {NRi,1, ... , NRi,.} into a corresponding component polynucleotide having a nucleic acid
sequence, thereby forming a corresponding plurality of component polynucleotides for each
respective ENi in {EN1, ... , ENk}.
                                                    164

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
