                                             ABSTRACT
  This invention provides a polymer, which is preferably a polyether polymer, for use in coating
5 compositions. Containers comprising the polymer and methods of making such containers are also
  provided. The invention further provides powder coating compositions including the polymer,
  which have utility in a variety of coating end uses, including, for example, valve and pipe
  coatings.

       COATING COMPOSITIONS FOR CONTAINERS AND OTHER
                    ARTICLES AND METHODS OF COATING
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [001]   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/440,085 filed on February 7, 2011 and entitled "COATING COMPOSITION FOR
   CONTAINERS AND OTHER ARTICLES AND METHODS OF COATING," and U.S.
   U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/579,072 filed on December 22, 2011 and entitled
 5 "COATING COMPOSITION FOR CONTAINERS AND OTHER ARTICLES AND
   METHODS OF COATING," each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
   [0021   The application of coatings to metals to retard or inhibit corrosion is well
   established. This is particularly true in the area of packaging containers such as metal
10 food and beverage cans. Coatings are typically applied to the interior of such containers
   to prevent the contents from contacting the metal of the container. Contact between the
   metal and the packaged product can lead to corrosion of the metal container, which can
   contaminate the packaged product. This is particularly true when the contents of the
   container are chemically aggressive in nature. Protective coatings are also applied to the
15 interior of food and beverage containers to prevent corrosion in the headspace of the
   container between the fill line of the food product and the container lid.
   [003]   Packaging coatings should preferably be capable of high-speed application to the
   substrate and provide the necessary properties when hardened to perform in this
   demanding end use. For example, the coating should be safe for food contact, not
20 adversely affect the taste of the packaged food or beverage product, have excellent
   adhesion to the substrate, resist staining and other coating defects such as "popping,"
   "blushing" and/or "blistering," and resist degradation over long periods of time, even
   when exposed to harsh environments. In addition, the coating should generally be
   capable of maintaining suitable film integrity during container fabrication and be capable
25 of withstanding the processing conditions that the container may be subjected to during
   product packaging.
   [0041 Various coatings have been used as interior protective can coatings, including
   polyvinyl-chloride-based coatings and epoxy-based coatings incorporating bisphenol A
   ("BPA"). Each of these coating types, however, has potential shortcomings. For
                                               1

   example, the recycling of materials containing polyvinyl chloride or related halide
   containing vinyl polymers can be problematic. There is also a desire by some to reduce
   or eliminate certain BPA-based compounds commonly used to formulate food-contact
   epoxy coatings.
 5 [005]   What is needed in the marketplace is an improved binder system for use in
   coatings such as, for example, packaging coatings.
                                           SUMMARY
   [006]   This invention provides a polymer useful in a variety of applications such as, for
   example, as a binder polymer of a coating composition. The polymer preferably includes
10 one or more segments having two or more aryl or heteroaryl groups in which each aryl or
   heteroaryl group includes an oxygen atom attached to the ring and a substituent group
   (preferably a "bulky" substituent group) attached to the ring preferably at an ortho or
   meta position relative to the oxygen atom. An example of such a segment is: -0-Ar
   (R2)n-Ar-O-, wherein "Ar" represents an aryl or heteroaryl group preferably having at
15 least one R1 group attached to the ring at an ortho or meta position relative to the
   depicted oxygen atom, which preferably belongs to an ether linkage, and wherein R1 , R2,
   and n are as defined herein for Formula (I). In preferred embodiments, the polymer is a
   polyether polymer.
   [007]   In preferred embodiments, the polymer includes one or more segments, and even
20 more preferably a plurality of segments, of the below Formula (I):
                                                 (R2)(
                                                                   O               Formula (Il
   wherein:
       * each of the pair of oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I) is preferably present in
           an ether or ester linkage, more preferably an ether linkage;
25     e   "H" denotes a hydrogen atom, if present;
       * each R1 is independently an atom or group preferably having an atomic weight of
           at least 15 daltons, wherein each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I)
           preferably includes at least one R1 attached to the ring at an ortho or meta
           position relative to the oxygen atom;
                                                  2

        * v is independently 1 to 4;
        * w is 4;
        * R2, if present, is preferably a divalent group;
        * n is 0 or 1, with the proviso that if n is 0, the phenylene groups depicted in
 5          Formula (I) can optionally join to form a fused ring system with each other (e.g.,
            a substituted naphthalene group), in which case w is 3 (as opposed to 4); and
        * wherein two or more R1 and/or R2 groups can join to form one or more cyclic
            groups.
   [008]    The segment of Formula (I) preferably includes at least one R1 that is capable of
10 providing steric hindrance to a phenol hydroxyl group. More preferably, each phenylene
   group depicted in Formula (I) includes at least one such R1 group. Preferred such R1
   groups are sufficiently "bulky" so that, when located at an ortho or meta position (more
   typically an ortho position) relative to a phenol hydroxyl group, the R1 group provides
   sufficient steric hindrance to reduce the accessibility and/or reactivity of such a phenol
15 hydroxyl group.
   [009]    In preferred embodiments, one or both of the following are true: (i) at least one
   Rlis attached to each phenylene ring depicted in Formula (I) at an ortho position relative
   to the depicted oxygen atom and (ii) at least one R1attached to the ring at an ortho or
   meta position relative to the depicted oxygen atom includes one or more carbon atoms.
20 Non-limiting examples of R1 groups include groups having at least one carbon atom, a
   halogen atom, a sulfur-containing group, or any other suitable group preferably having
   an atomic weight of at least 15 daltons that is preferably substantially non-reactive with
   an epoxy group. Organic groups are presently preferred, with organic groups that are
   free of halogen atoms being particularly preferred.
25 [010]    While the polymer of the present invention can have any suitable backbone
   chemistry, in preferred embodiments the polymer is a polyether polymer.
   [011]    The polymer preferably does not include any structural units derived from
   bisphenol A ("BPA") or the diglycidyl ether of BPA ("BADGE").
   [012] In preferred embodiments, the polymer also includes pendant hydroxyl groups
30 (e.g., secondary hydroxyl groups) and, more preferably, one or more -CH 2-CH(OH)
   CH 2 - segments, which are preferably derived from an oxirane and located in a backbone
   of the polymer.
                                                  3

   [013]   The present invention also provides a coating composition that includes the
   polymer described herein, more preferably a polyether polymer described herein. The
   coating composition preferably includes at least a film-forming amount of the polymer
   and may optionally include one or more additional polymers. The coating composition
 5 is useful in coating a variety of substrates, including as an interior or exterior coating on
   metal packaging containers or portions thereof. In preferred embodiments, the coating
   composition is useful as a food-contact coating on a food or beverage container. In
   preferred embodiments, the coating composition is at least substantially free of mobile
   BPA or BADGE, and more preferably is completely free of BPA or BADGE. The
10 coating composition may also have utility in a variety of other coating end uses,
   including, for example, coatings for valves and fittings, especially valves and fittings for
   use with potable water; pipes for conveying liquids, especially potable water pipes; and
   liquid storage tanks, especially potable water tanks such as, e.g., bolted steel water tanks.
   [014]   In one embodiment, the coating composition of the present invention is a powder
15 coating composition that preferably includes a base powder, formed at least in part, from
   the polymer of the present invention. The coating composition may include one or more
   optional ingredients in the particles of the base powder and/or in separate particle. Such
   optional ingredients may include, for example, crosslinker, cure accelerator, colored
   pigment, filler, flow additives, etc.
20 [015]   The present invention also provides packaging articles having a coating
   composition of the present invention applied to a surface of the packaging article. In one
   embodiment, the packaging article is a container such as a food or beverage container, or
   a portion thereof (e.g., a twist-off closure lid, beverage can end, food can end, etc.),
   wherein at least a portion of an interior surface of the container is coated with a coating
25 composition described herein that is suitable for prolonged contact with a food or
   beverage product or other packaged product.
   [016]   In one embodiment, a method of preparing a container is provided that includes
   an interior, food-contact coating of the present invention. The method includes:
   providing a coating composition described herein that includes a binder polymer and
30 optionally a liquid carrier; and applying the coating composition to at least a portion of a
   surface of a substrate prior to or after forming the substrate into a container or a portion
   thereof having the coating composition disposed on an interior surface. Typically, the
                                                   4

   substrate is a metal substrate, although the coating composition may be used to coat other
   substrate materials if desired.
   [017]    In one embodiment, a method of forming food or beverage cans, or a portion
   thereof, is provided that includes: applying a coating composition described herein to a
 5 metal substrate (e.g., applying the coating composition to the metal substrate in the form
   of a planar coil or sheet), hardening the coating composition, and forming the substrate
   into a food or beverage can or a portion thereof.
   [018]    In certain embodiments, forming the substrate into an article includes forming the
   substrate into a can end or a can body. In certain embodiments, the article is a two-piece
10 drawn food can, three-piece food can, food can end, drawn and ironed food or beverage
   can, beverage can end, twist-off closure lid, and the like. Suitable metal substrates
   include, for example, steel or aluminum.
   [019]    In certain embodiments, a packaging container is provided having: (a) a coating
   composition of the present invention disposed on at least a portion of an interior or
15 exterior surface of the container and (b) a product packaged therein such as a food,
   beverage, cosmetic, or medicinal product.
   [020] The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each
   disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description
   that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places
20 throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which
   examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves
   only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list. Unless
   otherwise indicated, the structural representations included herein are not intended to
   indicate any particular stereochemistry and are intended to encompass all stereoisomers.
25                                         DEFINITIONS
   [021] As used herein, the term "organic group" means a hydrocarbon group (with
   optional elements other than carbon and hydrogen, such as oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and
   silicon) that is classified as an aliphatic group, a cyclic group, or combination of aliphatic
   and cyclic groups (e.g., alkaryl and aralkyl groups). The term "cyclic group" means a
30 closed ring hydrocarbon group that is classified as an alicyclic group or an aromatic
   group, both of which can include heteroatoms. The term "alicyclic group" means a
   cyclic hydrocarbon group having properties resembling those of aliphatic groups.
                                                   5

   [022] The term "aryl group" (e.g., an arylene group) refers to a closed aromatic ring or
   ring system such as phenylene, naphthylene, biphenylene, fluorenylene, and indenyl, as
   well as heteroarylene groups (i.e., a closed aromatic or aromatic-like ring hydrocarbon or
   ring system in which one or more of the atoms in the ring is an element other than carbon
 5 (e.g., nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, etc.)). Suitable heteroaryl groups include furyl, thienyl,
   pyridyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, triazolyl, pyrrolyl, tetrazolyl,
   imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl, carbazolyl,
   benzoxazolyl, pyrimidinyl, benzimidazolyl, quinoxalinyl, benzothiazolyl, naphthyridinyl,
   isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, purinyl, quinazolinyl, pyrazinyl, 1-oxidopyridyl, pyridazinyl,
10 triazinyl, tetrazinyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, and so on. When such groups are divalent,
   they are typically referred to as "arylene" or "heteroarylene" groups (e.g., furylene,
   pyridylene, etc.)
   [023]    A group that may be the same or different is referred to as being "independently"
   something.
15 [024]    Substitution is anticipated on the organic groups of the compounds of the present
   invention. As a means of simplifying the discussion and recitation of certain
   terminology used throughout this application, the terms "group" and "moiety" are used
   to differentiate between chemical species that allow for substitution or that may be
   substituted and those that do not allow or may not be so substituted. Thus, when the
20 term "group" is used to describe a chemical substituent, the described chemical material
   includes the unsubstituted group and that group with 0, N, Si, or S atoms, for example,
   in the chain (as in an alkoxy group) as well as carbonyl groups or other conventional
   substitution. Where the term "moiety" is used to describe a chemical compound or
   substituent, only an unsubstituted chemical material is intended to be included. For
25 example, the phrase "alkyl group" is intended to include not only pure open chain
   saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, t-butyl, and the
   like, but also alkyl substituents bearing further substituents known in the art, such as
   hydroxy, alkoxy, alkylsulfonyl, halogen atoms, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, etc. Thus,
   "alkyl group" includes ether groups, haloalkyls, nitroalkyls, carboxyalkyls,
30 hydroxyalkyls, sulfoalkyls, etc. On the other hand, the phrase "alkyl moiety" is limited
   to the inclusion of only pure open chain saturated hydrocarbon alkyl substituents, such as
   methyl, ethyl, propyl, t-butyl, and the like. As used herein, the term "group" is intended
                                                  6

   to be a recitation of both the particular moiety, as well as a recitation of the broader class
   of substituted and unsubstituted structures that includes the moiety.
   [025]   The term "polyhydric phenol" as used herein refers broadly to any compound
   having one or more aryl or heteroaryl groups (more typically one or more phenylene
 5 groups) and at least two hydroxyl groups attached to a same or different aryl or
   heteroaryl ring. Thus, for example, both hydroquinone and 4,4'-biphenol are considered
   to be polyhydric phenols. As used herein, polyhydric phenols typically have six carbon
   atoms in an aryl ring, although it is contemplated that aryl or heteroaryl groups having
   rings of other sizes may be used.
10 [026]   The term "phenylene" as used herein refers to a six-carbon atom aryl ring (e.g., as
   in a benzene group) that can have any substituent groups (including, e.g., hydrogen
   atoms, halogens, hydrocarbon groups, oxygen atoms, hydroxyl groups, etc.). Thus, for
   example, the following aryl groups are each phenylene rings: -C 6H4 -, -C 6H3(CH 3)-, and
   -C 6 H(CH 3 )2 Cl-. In addition, for example, each of the aryl rings of a naphthalene group
15 are phenylene rings.
   [027]   The term "substantially free" of a particular mobile compound means that the
   recited polymer and/or composition contains less than 100 parts per million (ppm) of the
   recited mobile compound. The term "essentially free" of a particular mobile compound
   means that the recited polymer and/or composition contains less than 5 parts per million
20 (ppm) of the recited mobile compound. The term "completely free" of a particular
   mobile compound means that the recited polymer and/or composition contains less than
   20 parts per billion (ppb) of the recited mobile compound.
   [028]   The term "mobile" means that the compound can be extracted from the cured
   coating when a coating (typically ~1 mg/cm 2) is exposed to a test medium for some
25 defined set of conditions, depending on the end use. An example of these testing
   conditions is exposure of the cured coating to HPLC-grade acetonitrile for 24 hours at
   25'C. If the aforementioned phrases are used without the term "mobile" (e.g.,
   "substantially free of BPA") then the recited polymer and/or composition contains less
   than the aforementioned amount of the compound whether the compound is mobile in
30 the coating or bound to a constituent of the coating.
   [029]   The term "estrogenic activity" refers to the ability of a compound to mimic
   hormone-like activity through interaction with an endogenous estrogen receptor,
   typically an endogenous human estrogen receptor.
                                                  7

   [030]   The term "food-contact surface" refers to the substrate surface of a container
   (typically an inner surface of a food or beverage container) that is in contact with, or
   intended for contact with, a food or beverage product. By way of example, an interior
   surface of a metal substrate of a food or beverage container, or a portion thereof, is a
 5 food-contact surface even if the interior metal surface is coated with a polymeric coating
   composition.
   [031]   The term "crosslinker" refers to a molecule capable of forming a covalent linkage
   between polymers or between two different regions of the same polymer.
   [032]   The term "on," when used in the context of a coating applied on a surface or
10 substrate, includes both coatings applied directly or indirectly to the surface or substrate.
   Thus, for example, a coating applied to a primer layer overlying a substrate constitutes a
   coating applied on the substrate.
   [033]   Unless otherwise indicated, the term "polymer" includes both homopolymers and
   copolymers (e.g., polymers of two or more different monomers). Similarly, unless
15 otherwise indicated, the use of a term designating a polymer class such as, for example,
   "polyether" is intended to include both homopolymers and copolymers (e.g., polyether
   ester copolymers).
   [034] The terms "comprises" and variations thereof do not have a limiting meaning
   where these terms appear in the description and claims.
20 [035]   The terms "preferred" and "preferably" refer to embodiments of the invention
   that may afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other
   embodiments may also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances.
   Furthermore, the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that
   other embodiments are not useful, and is not intended to exclude other embodiments
25 from the scope of the invention.
   [036]   As used herein, "a," "an," "the," "at least one," and "one or more" are used
   interchangeably. Thus, for example, a coating composition that comprises "a" polyether
   can be interpreted to mean that the coating composition includes "one or more"
   polyethers.
30 [037]   Also herein, the recitations of numerical ranges by endpoints include all numbers
   subsumed within that range (e.g., I to 5 includes 1, 1.5, 2, 2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, etc.).
   Furthermore, disclosure of a range includes disclosure of all subranges included within
   the broader range (e.g., I to 5 discloses I to 4, 1.5 to 4.5, 4 to 5, etc.).
                                                  8

            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
   [038]    In one aspect, the present invention provides a coating composition that includes
   a polymer, more preferably a binder polymer, and even more preferably a polyether
   binder polymer. Although the ensuing discussion focuses primarily on coating end uses,
 5 it is contemplated that the polymer of the present invention, as well as intermediates
   thereof, may have utility in a variety of other end uses such as, for example, in adhesives
   or composites.
   [039]    Coating compositions of the present invention preferably include at least a film
   forming amount of the polymer described herein. In addition to the polymer, the coating
10 composition may also include one or more additional ingredients such as, for example, a
   crosslinker, a liquid carrier, and any other suitable optional additives. Although any
   suitable cure mechanism may be used, thermoset coating compositions are preferred.
   Moreover, although coating compositions including a liquid carrier are presently
   preferred, it is contemplated that the polymer of the present invention may have utility in
15 solid coating application techniques such as, for example, powder coating.
   [040]    Coating compositions of the present invention may have utility in a variety of
   coating end uses, and especially packaging coating end uses. Preferred coating
   compositions of the present invention exhibit a superior combination of coating attributes
   such as good flexibility, good substrate adhesion, good chemical resistance and corrosion
20 protection, good fabrication properties, and a smooth and regular coating appearance free
   of blisters and other application-related defects. In preferred embodiments, the coating
   composition is suitable for use as an adherent packaging coating and, more preferably, as
   an adherent coating on an interior and/or exterior surface of a food or beverage container.
   Thus, in preferred embodiments, the coating composition is suitable for us as a food
25 contact coating. It is also contemplated that the coating composition may have utility in
   cosmetic packaging or medical packaging coating end uses, and as a drug-contact
   coating in particular (e.g., as an interior coating of a metered dose inhaler can
   commonly referred to as an "MDI" container). It is also contemplated that the coating
   composition may have utility in coating applications in which the coated substrate will
30 contact bodily fluids such as, e.g., as an interior coating of a blood vial.
   [041]    In preferred embodiments, the polymer of the present invention, which is
   preferably a polyether polymer, includes one or more segments of the below Formula (I):
                                                   9

                                                   (R2)H
                                                                   0-              Formula (I)
                               (R'),(,)
   wherein:
       *   each of the pair of oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I) is preferably present in
           an ether or ester linkage, more preferably an ether linkage;
       *   "H" denotes a hydrogen atom, if present;
 5     e   each R 1 is preferably independently an atom or group preferably having at atomic
           weight of at least 15 daltons that is preferably substantially non-reactive with an
           epoxy group;
       *   v is independently 1 to 4;
        Sw    is 4;
10     e   each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I) includes at least one R1
           attached to the ring preferably at an ortho or meta position relative to the oxygen
           atom;
       * R2 , if present, is preferably a divalent group;
       *   n is 0 or 1, with the proviso that if n is 0, the phenylene groups depicted in
15         Formula (I) can optionally join to form a fused ring system (e.g., a substituted
           naphthalene group) in which case w is 3 (as opposed to 4); and
       *   two or more R1 and/or R 2 groups can optionally join to form one or more cyclic
           groups.
   [042]   In preferred embodiments, each R1 and R2 , if present, are preferably not reactive
20 with an oxirane group at a temperature of less than about 200'C.
   [043]   As depicted in the above Formula (I), the segment includes a pair of phenylene
   groups (and may optionally include one or more additional phenylene or other aryl or
   heteroaryl groups). Although aryl groups having a six-carbon aromatic ring are presently
   preferred, it is contemplated that any other suitable aryl or heteroaryl groups may be used
25 in place of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I). As depicted in the above
   Formula (I), the substituent groups (i.e., -0-, H, R , and R 2 ) of each phenylene group can
   be located at any position on the ring relative to one another, although in preferred
   embodiments at least one R1 is positioned on the ring immediately adjacent to the
                                                   10

   oxygen atom. In other embodiments in which other aryl or heteroarylene groups are
   used in place of the depicted phenylene groups in Formula (I), it is contemplated that the
   same would hold true for the substituent groups of such other aryl or heteroarylene
   groups.
 5 [044]    In preferred embodiments, R1 is attached to the phenylene ring at a carbon atom
   immediately adjacent to the carbon atom to which the depicted oxygen atom is attached.
   In other words, R' is preferably located at an ortho position on the ring relative to the
   oxygen atom. In some embodiments, an R1 is located immediately adjacent to the
   oxygen on either side. That is, in some embodiments, an R1 is located at each ortho
10 position on the ring relative to the oxygen atom. While not intending to be bound by any
   theory, it is believed that the positioning of one or more R1 groups at an ortho position
   relative to the oxygen atom depicted in Formula (I) may be beneficial, for example, in
   the event that monomer used to make the segment of Formula (I) is not fully reacted into
   the polymer. Such unreacted monomer could potentially migrate out of a cured coating
15 composition including the polymer. The benefits of R1 with regards to an absence of
   appreciable estrogenic activity in certain such potential migrants are discussed in greater
   detail below.
   [045] While not intending to be bound by any theory, it is believed that a polyhydric
   phenol compound is less likely to exhibit appreciable estrogenic activity if the one or
20 more hydroxyl groups present on each aryl ring (typically phenol hydroxyl groups) are
   sterically hindered by one or more other substituents of the aryl ring, as compared to a
   similar polyhydric phenol compound having hydrogen atoms present at each ortho
   position. It is believed that it may be preferable to have substituent groups positioned at
   each ortho position relative to the aforementioned hydroxyl groups to provide optimal
25 steric effect to reduce accessibility and/or reactivity of the hydroxyl group. While it is
   preferred to position the substituent groups at one or both ortho positions, a sufficiently
   "bulky" substituent group(s) located at one or both meta positions may also provide the
   desired effect.
   [046] Preferred R1 groups are sufficiently "bulky" to provide a suitable level of steric
30 hindrance for the aforementioned hydroxyl groups to achieve the desired effect. To
   avoid any ambiguity, the term "group" when used in the context of R1 groups refers to
   both single atoms (e.g., a halogen atom) or molecules (i.e., two or more atoms). The
   optimal chemical constituents, size, and/or configuration (e.g., linear, branched, etc.) of
                                                  11

   the one or more R groups may depend on a variety of factors, including, for example,
   the location of the R1 group on the aryl group.
   [047]   Preferred segments of Formula (I) include one or more R1 groups having an
   atomic weight of at least 15 daltons. In some embodiments, the segments of Formula (I)
 5 include one or more R1 groups having an atomic weight of at least 25, at least 40, or at
   least 50. While the maximum suitable size of R1 is not particularly limited, typically it
   will be less than 500 daltons, more typically less than 100 daltons, and even more
   typically less than 60 daltons. Non-limiting examples of R1 groups include groups
   having at least one carbon atom (e.g., organic groups), halogen atoms, sulfur-containing
10 groups, or any other suitable group that is preferably substantially non-reactive with an
   epoxy group.
   [048] In presently preferred embodiments, one or more R1 groups of each phenylene
   group includes at least one carbon atom, more preferably 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and even
   more preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms. R1 will typically be a saturated or unsaturated
15 hydrocarbon group, more typically saturated, that may optionally include one or more
   heteroatoms other than carbon or hydrogen atoms (e.g., N, 0, S, Si, a halogen atom,
   etc.). Examples of suitable hydrocarbon groups may include substituted or
   unsubstituted: alkyl groups (e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl groups, etc., including
   isomers thereof), alkenyl groups, alkynyl groups, alicyclic groups, aryl groups, or
20 combinations thereof.
   [049]   In certain preferred embodiments, each phenylene group depicted in Formula (I)
   includes at least one alkyl R1 group. As discussed above, any suitable isomer may be
   used. Thus, for example, a linear butyl group may be used or a branched isomer such as
   an isobutyl group or a tert-butyl group. In one embodiment, a tert-butyl group (and more
25 preferably a tert-butyl moiety) is a preferred R1 group.
   [050]   As previously mentioned, it is contemplated that R1 may include one or more
   cyclic groups. In addition, R1 may form a cyclic or polycyclic group with one or more
   other R1 groups and/or R 2 .
   [051]   In some embodiments, one or both phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I)
30 includes an R located ortho to the oxygen that is a halogen atom, more preferably a
   higher molecular weight halogen such as bromine or iodine. However, in preferred
   embodiments, the segment of Formula (I) does not include any halogen atoms.
                                                 12

   Moreover, in presently preferred embodiments, the polymer including one or more
   segments of Formula (I) is preferably free of halogen atoms.
   [052]    R2 is present or absent in the segment of Formula (I) depending on whether n is 0
   or 1. When R2 is absent, either (i) a carbon atom of one phenylene ring is covalently
 5 attached to a carbon atom of the other phenylene ring (which occurs when w is 4) or
   (ii) the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I) join to form a fused ring system (which
   occurs when w is 3 and the two phenylene groups are so fused). In some embodiments,
   R (or the ring-ring covalent linkage if R 2 is absent) is preferably attached to at least one,
   and more preferably both, phenylene rings at a para position (i.e., 1,4 position) relative to
10 the oxygen atom depicted in Formula (I). An embodiment of the segment of Formula (I),
   in which n is 0 and w = 3 such that the two phenylene groups have joined to form a
   naphthalene group, is depicted below:
                                  (H)3-v                     (H)3-v
                                 -0                             0
                                     (R1)v                    (R1 )v
   [053]    R2 can be any suitable divalent group including, for example, carbon-containing
   groups (which may optionally include heteroatoms such as, e.g., N, 0, S, Si, a halogen
15 atom, etc.), sulfur-containing groups (including, e.g., a sulfur atom), oxygen-containing
   groups (including, e.g., an oxygen atom, a ketone group, etc.), nitrogen-containing
   groups, or a combination thereof. In preferred embodiments, R2 is present and is
   typically an organic group containing less than 15 carbon atoms, more typically I to 10
   carbon atoms. R2 will typically be a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon group, more
20 typically a saturated alkyl group. In some embodiments, R2 may include one or more
   cyclic groups, which may be aromatic or alicyclic and can optionally include
   heteroatoms. The one or more optional cyclic groups of R2 can be present, for example,
   (i) in a chain connecting the two phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I) and/or (ii) in
   a pendant group attached to a chain connecting the two phenylene groups.
25 [054]    The atomic weight of the R2 group of Formula (I), if present, may be any suitable
   atomic weight, although in preferred embodiments, R2 has an atomic weight of less than
   about 500 daltons, more preferably less than about 200 daltons, even more preferably
   less than 150 daltons, and optimally less than 100 daltons.
                                                 13

   [055]   In some embodiments, R2 includes a carbon atom that is attached to a carbon
   atom of each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I). For example, R2 can have
   a structure of the formula -C(R 7R8 )-, wherein R7 and R8 are each independently a
   hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an organic group, a sulfur-containing group, a nitrogen
 5 containing group, or any other suitable group that is preferably substantially non-reactive
   with an epoxy group, and wherein R7 and R8 can optionally join to form a cyclic group.
   In an embodiment, R2 is a divalent methylene group (i.e., -CH 2 -).
   [056]   The oxygen atom of a phenylene ring depicted in Formula (I) can be positioned
   on the ring at any position relative to R2 (or relative to the other phenylene ring if R2 is
10 absent). In some embodiments, the oxygen atom (which is preferably an ether oxygen)
   and R 2 are located at para positions relative to one another.
   [057]   The segments of Formula (I) can be of any suitable size. Typically, the segments
   of Formula (I) will have an atomic weight of less than 1,000, preferably less than 600,
   more preferably less than 400 daltons. More typically, the segments of Formula (I) will
15 have an atomic weight of about 250 to about 400 daltons.
   [058]   In preferred embodiments, the substituted phenylene groups of Formula (I) are
   symmetric relative to one another. Stated otherwise, the substituted phenylene groups
   are preferably formed from the same phenol compound, thereby resulting in the same
   substituent groups on each ring located at the same ring positions. An example of a
20 compound having symmetric phenylene groups is provided below.
                                HO                                  OH
   [059]   An example of a compound having phenylene groups that are not symmetric is
   provided below, in which a methyl group is at a meta position on one ring and at an ortho
   position on the other.
                                                  14

                              HO                                  OH
   [060]    In preferred embodiments, the polymer of the present invention includes a
   plurality of segments of Formula (I), which are preferably dispersed throughout a
   backbone of the polymer, more preferably a polyether backbone. In preferred
 5 embodiments, the segments of Formula (I) constitute a substantial portion of the overall
   mass of the polymer. Typically, segments of Formula (I) constitute at least 10 weight
   percent ("wt-%"), preferably at least 30 wt-%, more preferably at least 40 wt-%, even
   more preferably at least 50 wt-%, and optimally at least 55 wt-% of the polymer.
   [061]    The weight percent of segments of Formula (I) in the polymer of the present
10 invention may be below the amounts recited above in certain situations, and can even be
   substantially below. By way of example, the concentration of segments of Formula (I)
   may be outside the ranges recited above if the polymer of the present invention, which is
   preferably a polyether polymer, includes large molecular weight additional components
   such as may occur, for example, when the polymer is a copolymer such as an acrylic
15 containing copolymer (e.g., an acrylic-polyether copolymer formed by grafting acrylic
   onto a polyether polymer of the present invention). In such embodiments, the weight
   percent of segments of Formula (I) present in the polymer is preferably as described
   above (i.e., > 10 wt-%, > 30 wt-%, > 40 wt-%, > 50 wt-%, > 55 wt-%), based on the
   weight percent of segments of Formula (I) relative to the total polyether fraction of the
20 polymer (while not considering the total weight of non-polyether portions such as, for
   example, acrylic portions). In general, the total polyether fraction of the polymer can be
   calculated based on the total weight of polyepoxide and polyhydric phenol reactants
   (e.g., polyhydric monophenols and/or diphenols) incorporated into the polymer.
   [062]    Depending upon the particular embodiment, the polymer of the present invention
25 may be amorphous or semi-crystalline.
   [063]    The polymer can include branching, if desired. In preferred embodiments,
   however, the polymer of the invention is a linear or substantially linear polymer.
                                                15

   [064] If desired, the backbone of the polymer may include step-growth linkages (e.g.,
   condensation linkages) other than ether linkages (i.e., in addition to, or in place of, the
   ether linkages) such as, for example, amide linkages, carbonate linkages, ester linkages,
   urea linkages, urethane linkages, etc. Thus, for example, in some embodiments, the
 5 backbone may include both ester and ether linkages.
   [065]   The polymer of the present invention preferably includes hydroxyl groups. In
   preferred embodiments, the polymer includes a plurality of hydroxyl groups attached to
   the backbone. In preferred embodiments, polyether portions of the polymer backbone
   include secondary hydroxyl groups distributed throughout. Preferred secondary
10 hydroxyl groups are present in -CH 2-CH(OH)-CH 2- segments, which are preferably
   derived from an oxirane group. Such segments may be formed, for example, via reaction
   of an oxirane group and a hydroxyl group (preferably a hydroxyl group of a polyhydric
   phenol). In some embodiments, CH 2-CH(OH)-CH 2- segments are attached to each of the
   ether oxygen atoms of preferred segments of Formula (I).
15 [066]   The backbone of the polymer of the present invention may include any suitable
   terminal groups, including, for example, epoxy and/or hydroxyl groups (e.g., a hydroxyl
   group attached to a terminal aryl or heteroaryl ring).
   [067]   In preferred embodiments, the polymer of the present invention is formed using
   reactants that include at least one polyepoxide compound, more typically at least one
20 diepoxide compound. Although any suitable ingredients may be used to form the
   polymer, in presently preferred embodiments, the polymer is formed via reaction of
   ingredients that include: (a) one or more polyepoxides, more preferably one or more
   diepoxides, and (b) one or more polyols, more preferably one or more polyhydric
   phenols, and even more preferably one or more dihydric phenols. The polymer is
25 preferably derived from ingredients including a diepoxide having one or more
   "hindered" aryl or heteroaryl groups, and more preferably one or more "hindered"
   phenylene groups described herein (e.g., as depicted in Formula (I)).
   [068]     While it is contemplated that the segments of Formula (I) may be incorporated
   into the polymer using ingredients other than a polyepoxide compound, in preferred
30 embodiments some, or all, of the segments of Formula (I) are incorporated into the
   polymer using a polyepoxide compound, and more preferably a diepoxide compound.
   The polyepoxide compound may be upgraded to form a binder polymer, more preferably
   a polyether binder polymer, of a suitable molecular weight using any suitable extender or
                                                 16

   combinations of extenders. As discussed above, polyhydric phenols, and dihydric
   phenols in particular, are preferred extenders. Examples of other suitable extenders may
   include polyacids (and diacids in particular) or phenol compounds having both a phenol
   hydroxyl group and a carboxylic group (e.g., para hydroxy benzoic acid and/or para
 5 hydroxy phenyl acetic acid). Conditions for such reactions are generally carried out
   using standard techniques that are known to one of skill in the art or that are exemplified
   in the examples section.
   [069]    The epoxy groups (also commonly referred to as "oxirane" groups) of the
   polyepoxide compound may be attached to the compound via any suitable linkage,
10 including, for example, ether-containing or ester-containing linkages. Glycidyl ethers of
   polyhydric phenols and glycidyl esters of polyhydric phenols are preferred polyepoxide
   compounds, with diglycidyl ethers being particularly preferred.
   [070]    A preferred polyepoxide compound for use in incorporating segments of Formula
   (I) into the polymer of the present invention is depicted in the below Formula (II):
                           (H )w-v(R       2)             ( )_
          R4(       -0                                  -      O-(R)      R4
                                                                                  Formula (II)
    0                (RI)V                               (R4)v             0
15 wherein:
        * R1, R2 , n, v, and w are as described above for Formula (I);
        * each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (II) includes at least one R
            that is preferably attached to the ring at a position immediately adjacent to the
             oxygen atom (i.e., ortho);
20      e    s is 0 to 1, more preferably 1;
        * R3, if present, is a divalent group, more preferably a divalent organic group; and
        * preferably each R4 is independently a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, or a
            hydrocarbon group that may include one or more heteroatoms; more preferably
             each R4 is a hydrogen atom.
25 [071]    R3 is typically a hydrocarbyl group, which may optionally include one or more
   heteroatoms. Preferred hydrocarbyl groups include groups having from one to four
                                                   17

   carbon atoms, with methylene groups being particularly preferred. In some
   embodiments, R3 includes a carbonyl group. In one such embodiment, R3 includes a
   carbonyl group that is attached to the oxygen atom depicted in Formula (II) (e.g., as in an
   ester linkage).
 5 [072]    In presently preferred embodiments, R4 is a hydrogen atom.
   [073]    Preferred polyepoxide compounds of Formula (II) are non-mutagenic. A useful
   test for assessing mutagenicity is the mammalian in vivo assay known as the in vivo
   alkaline single cell gel electrophoresis assay (referred to as the "comet" assay). The
   method is described in: Tice, R.R. "The single cell gel/comet assay: a microgel
10 electrophoretic technique for the detection of DNA damage and repair in individual
   cells." Environmental Mutagenesis. Eds. Phillips, D.H and Venitt, S. Bios Scientific,
   Oxford, UD, 1995, pp. 315-339. A negative test result in the comet assay indicates that a
   compound is non-mutagenic.
   [074] In some embodiments, the polyepoxide compound of Formula (II) is formed via
15 epoxidation of a diphenol compound (e.g., via a condensation reaction using
   epichlorohydrin or any other suitable material). Such a diphenol compound is depicted
   in the below Formula (III), wherein R1, R2, n, v, and w are as in Formula (I):
                                  (Hwv(R            2)            (H),_
                             HO                                        OH       Formula (IID
                              (R1                                   17,~
   [075]    Preferred compounds of Formula (III) do not exhibit appreciable estrogenic
20 activity. Preferred appreciably non-estrogenic compounds exhibit a degree of estrogen
   agonist activity, in a competent in vitro human estrogen receptor assay, that is less than
   that exhibited by genistein in the assay, and more preferably less than that exhibited by
   4,4'-(propane-2,2-diyl)diphenol in the assay. It has been found that compounds such as
   4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol), 2,2'-methylenebis(4-methyl-6-t-butylphenol),
25 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol), 4,4'butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol),
   and 4,4'-(ethane-1,2-diyl)bis(2,6-dimethylphenol) do not exhibit appreciable estrogenic
   activity in a suitable in vitro assay whose results are known to be directly correlated to
   the results of the MCF-7 cell proliferation assay ("MCF-7 assay") through analysis of
   common reference compounds. The MCF-7 assay is a useful test for assessing whether a
                                                 18

   polyhydric phenol compound is appreciably non-estrogenic. The MCF-7 assay uses
   MCF-7 WS8 cells to measure whether and to what extent a substance induces cell
   proliferation via estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated pathways. The method is generally
   described in NICEATM Pre-Screen Evaluation of the In Vitro Endocrine Disruptor
 5 Assay, National Toxicology Program Interagency Center for the Evaluation of
   Alternative Toxicological Methods (NICEATM). Examples of appreciably non
   estrogenic polyhydric phenols include polyhydric phenols that when tested using the
   MCF-7 assay exhibit a Relative Proliferative Effect ("RPE") having a logarithmic value
   (with base 10) of less than about -2.0, more preferably less than about -3.0, and even
10 more preferably less than about -4.0. The RPE, which is specifically defined in the
   aforementioned MCF-7 reference, is the ratio between the highest cell yield obtained
   with the test compound in the MCF-7 assay to that obtained with 17-beta estradiol in the
   MCF-7 assay multiplied by 100. A Table is provided below including various
   polyhydric compounds of Formula (III) and their anticipated logarithmic RPE values in
15 the MCF-7 assay.
                                                19

   Polyhydric Compound of Formula (III)         Reference Compound        Log RPE
                                                17p-estradiol             2.00
                                                Genistein                 -1.85
   4,4'-(propane-2,2-diyl)bis(2,6-                                        -2.2
   dimethylphenol)
   4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol)                                  about -4
   4,4'-(ethane- 1,2-diyl)bis(2,6-                                        in the range of -2 to
   dimethylphenol)                                                        3
   4,4'-butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-                                        in the range of -3 to
   methylphenol)                                                          5
   4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol)                                in the range of -3.5 to
                                                                          -5
   2,2'-methylenebis(4-methyl-6-t-                                        In the range of -4 to
   butylphenol                                                            5
   4,4'-(ethane- 1,2-diyl)bis(2,6-                                        in the range of -4 to
   dimethylphenol)                                                        5
   Tetrabromobisphenol A*                                                 less than -5
   *A bromine is located at each ortho position.
   [076]    A diphenol having no appreciable estrogenic activity may be beneficial in the
 5 event that any unreacted, residual diphenol may be present in a cured coating
   composition. While the balance of scientific data does not indicate that the presence in
   cured coatings of very small amounts of residual diphenols having estrogenic activity in
   an in vitro recombinant cell assay pose a human health concern, the use of diphenols
   having no appreciable estrogenic activity in such an assay may nonetheless be desirable
10 from a public perception standpoint. Thus, in preferred embodiments, the polymer of the
   present invention is preferably formed using polyhydric phenol compounds that do not
   exhibit appreciable estrogenic activity in the MCF-7 test.
   [077]    While not intending to be bound by any theory, as previously discussed, it is
   believed that the presence of substituent groups (i.e., a group other than a hydrogen
15 atom) at one or more of the ortho and/or meta positions of each phenylene ring of the
                                                20

   Formula (III) compound, relative to the phenol hydroxyl group of each ring, can reduce
   or effectively eliminate any estrogenic activity. It is believed that the
   inhibition/elimination of estrogenic activity may be attributable to one or both of the
   following: (a) steric hindrance of the phenol hydroxyl group and/or (b) the compound
 5 having a higher molecular weight due to the presence of the one or more substituent
   groups. Substitution at one or both of the ortho positions of each phenylene ring is
   presently preferred as it is believed that ortho substitution can provide the greatest steric
   hindrance for the hydroxyl group.
   [078]   Preferred compounds of Formula (III) include the below listed diphenol
10 compounds (with the chemical name indicated below each structure).
                              HO                                     OH
                             4,4'-Methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol);
                                          OH               OH
                            2,2'Methylenebis(4-ethyl-6-t-butylphenol)
                                HO                                 OH
                           4,4'Butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol)
                                                  21

                                     OH            HO
              2,2'-Methylenebis(6-(1-methylcyclohexyl)-4-methylphenol)
                                    OH              OH
                     2,2'-Methylenebis(6-t-butyl-4-methylphenol)
                          HO                                OH
                      4,4'-isopropylidenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol)
                            HO                            OH
                        4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol)
                                    OH              OH
                     2,2'-methylenebis(4-methyl-6-t-butylphenol)
[079]   The below compounds of Formula (III) may also be used in certain embodiments
if desired.
                                           22

     HO                                     O
 4,4'-(ethane- 1,2-diyl)bis(2,6-dimethylphenol)
       HO                                OH
4,4'-Isobutylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol)
      HO                                  OH
     4,4'-isopropylidenebis(2-methylphenol)
      HO                                  OH
   4,4'-isopropylidenebis(2-isopropylphenol)
       HO               2OH
     4,4'-isopropylidenebis(2-phenylphenol)
                        23

                                                   OH
                                                   OH
                                     2,5-di-t-butylhydroquinone
                              HO 4OH
                            4,4'-cyclohexylidenebis(2-methylphenol)
                               HO                               OH
 5
                          4,4'-cyclohexylidenebis(2,b-dimethylphenol)
   [080]   In certain embodiments, bis(4-hydroxy-3-methylphenyl) methane may be used if
   desired, which is shown below.
                               HO"[                             OH
10 [081]   The diphenol compounds of Formula (III) can be converted to a diepoxide using
   any suitable process and materials. The use of epichlorohydrin in the epoxidation
   process is presently preferred. By way of example, below is a diepoxide formed via an
   epichlorohydrin epoxidation of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol).
                                                  24

   [082]    Numerous diepoxides have been successfully generated using various diphenol
   compounds of Formula (III), and polyether polymers have been successfully produced
   therefrom. In general, it is much more difficult to successfully form a polyether polymer
 5 (using reasonable process times and conditions) using, as a diphenol component, a
   compound of Formula (III) substituted at the ortho ring positions. For example, the
   inventors have found it difficult using conventional industrial processes to efficiently
   react 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol) with diepoxide monomer to form a
   polyether polymer. (Somewhat surprisingly, however, diphenol compounds such as
10 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol) can undergo a condensation reaction with
   epichlorohydrin to form a diepoxide that is reactive with conventional dihydric phenols
   that are not substituted at the ortho or meta positions.) While not wishing to be bound by
   theory, it is believed that the hydroxyl groups of such diphenol compounds are generally
   not sufficiently accessible to efficiently react with an oxirane group of a diepoxide
15 monomer and form an ether linkage. Nonetheless, it is contemplated that a "hindered"
   diphenol compound of Formula (III) may be selected such that the hydroxyl groups are
   sufficiently sterically hindered so that the compound does not exhibit appreciable
   estrogenic activity, while the hydroxyl groups are still sufficiently accessible so that the
   compound can react with a diepoxide and build molecular weight under reasonable
20 process times and conditions (e.g., less than 24 hours of reaction time at a reaction
   temperature of less than about 240'C).
   [083]    In certain preferred embodiments, the diphenol compound of Formula (III) is
   substituted at one or both ortho ring positions of each depicted phenylene group with an
   R1 group that includes from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, more preferably from 1 to 3 carbon
25 atoms, and even more preferably 1 to 2 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, substituted
   or unsubstituted methyl groups are preferred ortho Ri groups, with the methyl moiety
   (i.e., -CH 3) being particularly preferred. While not intending to be bound by any theory,
   it has been observed that the presence of large ortho substituent groups can sometimes
                                                  25

   affect the efficiency by which certain diphenol compounds of Formula (III) are converted
   into diepoxides using epichlorohydrin and, moreover, the efficiency by which the
   resulting diepoxide can be upgraded into a polyether polymer having segments of
   Formula (I).
 5 [084]   Any suitable polyhydric phenol may be used to upgrade the molecular weight of
   polyepoxides of Formula (II) to form polyether polymers. However, the use of bisphenol
   A is not preferred. Preferred polyhydric phenols are dihydric phenols that are free of
   bisphenol A and preferably do not exhibit appreciable estrogenic activity. In certain
   preferred embodiments, a polyhydric phenol is used that has a molecular weight greater
10 than that of bisphenol A (i.e., greater than about 228 grams/mole).
   [085]   Examples of suitable dihydric phenols for use in forming the polyether polymer
   include compounds of the below Formula (IV):
                                       HO-Ar- (Yu-Ar)t-OH,
   wherein:
15     0 each Ar is independently an aryl group or heteroaryl group, more preferably a
           phenylene group (and typically an unsubstituted phenylene group, i.e., -C 6 H 4 -);
       * Y, if present, is a divalent group;
       * u is independently 0 or 1; and
       *   t is independently 0 or 1.
20 [086]   In some embodiments, Y includes one or more cyclic groups (e.g., alicyclic
   and/or aromatic groups), which may be monocyclic or polycyclic groups (e.g., a
   divalent: norbomane, norbomene, tricyclodecane, bicyclo[4.4.0] decane, or isosorbide
   group, or a combination thereof).
   [087]   In some embodiments, Y includes one or more ester linkages. For example, in
25 some embodiments, Y is a -R6,-Z-R5-Z-R        6 w-segment, where: R5 is a divalent organic
   group; each R6 , if present, is independently a divalent organic group; each Z is
   independently an ester linkage that can be of either directionality (i.e., -C(O)-O- or -0
   C(O)-; and each w is independently 0 or 1. In one such embodiment, R5 includes at least
   one divalent cyclic group such as, for example, a divalent polycyclic group, a divalent
30 aryl or heteroarylene group (e.g., a substituted or unsubstituted phenylene group) or a
   divalent alicyclic group (e.g., a substituted or unsubstituted cyclohexane or cyclohexene
   group) such as, for example, any of those described herein. In one embodiment, Y is
                                                  26

   R6-C(O)-O-R-O-C(O)-R 6-. A further discussion of suitable segments containing
   ester linkages and materials for incorporating such segments into the polymer of the
   invention is provided in U.S. Published Application No. 2007/0087146 by Evans et. al.
   and Published International Application No. WO 2011/130671 by Niederst et al.
 5 [088]     If present, Y typically has a molecular weight of less than about 500, and more
   typically less than about 300.
   [089]     Examples of suitable dihydric phenols include hydroquinone, catechol, p-tert
   butyl catechol, resorcinol, 1,1 -bis(4-hydroyphenyl)-3,3,5-trimethyl-cyclohexane,
    1,1 -di(4-hydroxyphenyl)-cyclohexane, dihydroxynaphthalene, biphenol, or a mixture
10 thereof.
   [090]     By way of example, a cyclic-group-containing compound of Formula (IV) may
   be formed by reacting (a) a suitable amount (e.g., about 2 moles) of a Compound A
   having a phenol hydroxyl group and a carboxylic acid or other active hydrogen group
   with (b) a suitable amount (e.g., about 1 mole) of a di-functional or higher Compound B
15 having one or more cyclic groups (monocyclic and/or polycyclic) and two or more active
   hydrogen groups capable of reacting with the active hydrogen group of Compound A.
   Examples of preferred Compounds A include 4-hydroxy phenyl acetic acid,
   3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and derivatives or mixtures thereof.
   Examples of preferred Compounds B include cyclic-containing diols such as
20 cyclohexane dimethanol (CHDM); tricyclodecane dimethanol (TCDM); nadic acid
   and/or anhydride; a polycyclic anyhydrosugar such as isosorbide, isomannide, or
   isoidide; and derivatives or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, the cyclic group
   may be formed after reaction of Compounds A and B. For example, a Diels-Alder
   reaction (using, e.g., cyclopentadiene as a reactant) could be used to incorporate an
25 unsaturated bicyclic group such as a norbornene group into Compound B, in which case
   Compound B in its unreacted form would need to include at least one non-aromatic
   carbon-carbon double bond in order to participate in the Diels-Alder reaction. For
   further discussion of suitable materials and techniques relating to such Diels-Alder
   reactions see, for example, Published International App. Nos. WO 2010/118356 by
30 Skillman et al. and WO 2010/118349 by Hayes et al.
                                                  27

   [091]    An additional example of a suitable Compound B is provided below:
                                                                              OH
                     HO
   [092]     Some examples of cyclic-group-containing dihydric phenol compounds are
   provided below. These compounds are discussed in further detail in the previously
 5 referenced Published International Application No. WO 2011/130671 by Niederst et al.
            HO                                                                          OH
                                 0O
                                    0                          0
                                                                 0
                          0
                                                                                      OH
             HO
   [093]    If desired, one or more comonomers and/or co-oligomers may be included in the
   reactants used to generate the polymer of the present invention. Non-limiting examples
   of such materials include adipic acid, azelaic acid, terephthalic acid, isophthalic acid, and
10 combinations thereof. The comonomers and/or cooligomers may be included in an
   initial reaction mixture of polyepoxide and polyhydric phenol and/or may be post-reacted
   with the resulting polyether oligomer or polymer. In presently preferred embodiments, a
   comonomer and/or co-oligomer is not utilized to produce a polyether polymer of the
   present invention.
15 [094]    Preferred polymers of the present invention may be made in a variety of
   molecular weights. Preferred polyether polymers of the present invention have a number
   average molecular weight (Mn) of at least 2,000, more preferably at least 3,000, and even
   more preferably at least 4,000. The molecular weight of the polyether polymer may be
   as high as is needed for the desired application. Typically, however, the Mn of the
20 polyether polymer, when adapted for use in a liquid coating composition, will not exceed
                                                28

   about 10,000. In embodiments where the polymer of the present invention is a
   copolymer, such as for example a polyether-acrylic copolymer, while the molecular
   weight of the polyether polymer is typically within the ranges recited above, the
   molecular weight of the overall polymer may be higher than that recited above.
 5 Typically, however, such copolymers will have an Mn of less than about 20,000.
   [095]    Advancement of the molecular weight of the polymer may be enhanced by the
   use of a catalyst in the reaction of a diepoxide with one or more upgrade comonomers
   such as, e.g., a polyhydric phenol of Formula (IV). Typical catalysts usable in the
   advancement of the molecular weight of the epoxy material of the present invention
10 include amines, hydroxides (e.g., potassium hydroxide), phosphonium salts, and the like.
   A presently preferred catalyst is a phosphonium catalyst. The phosphonium catalyst
   useful in the present invention is preferably present in an amount sufficient to facilitate
   the desired condensation reaction.
   [096]    Alternatively, epoxy-terminated polymers of the present invention may be
15 reacted with fatty acids to form polymers having unsaturated (e.g., air oxidizable)
   reactive groups, or with acrylic acid or methacrylic acid to form free-radically curable
   polymers.
   [097]    Advancement of the molecular weight of the polymer may also be enhanced by
   the reaction of a hydroxyl- or epoxy-terminated polymer of the present invention with a
20 suitable diacid (such as adipic acid).
   [098]    As discussed above, in certain preferred embodiments, the coating composition
   of the present invention is suitable for use in forming a food-contact packaging coating.
   In order to exhibit a suitable balance of coating properties for use as a food-contact
   packaging coating, including suitable corrosion resistance when in prolonged contact
25 with packaged food or beverage products which may be of a corrosive nature, the
   polymer of the present invention preferably has a glass transition temperature ("Tg") of
   at least 60'C, more preferably at least 70'C, and even more preferably at least 80'C. In
   preferred embodiments, the Tg is less than 150'C, more preferably less than 130'C, and
   even more preferably less than 110 C. Tg can be measured via differential scanning
30 calorimetry ("DSC") using the methodology disclosed in the Test Methods section. In
   preferred embodiments, the polymer is a polyether polymer exhibiting a Tg pursuant to
   the aforementioned Tg values.
                                                 29

   [099]    While not intending to be bound by any theory, it is believed that it is important
   that the polymer exhibit a Tg such as that described above in applications where the
   coating composition will be in contact with food or beverage products during retort
   processing at high temperature (e.g., at temperatures at or above about 100'C and
 5 sometimes accompanied by pressures in excess of atmospheric pressure), and
   particularly when retort processing food or beverage products that are more chemically
   aggressive in nature. It is contemplated that, in some embodiments, such as, for
   example, where the coating composition is intended for use as an exterior varnish on a
   food or beverage container, the Tg of the polymer may be less than that described above
10 (e.g., as low as about 30'C) and the coating composition may still exhibit a suitable
   balance of properties in the end use.
   [0100] While not intending to be bound by any theory, it is believed that the inclusion of
   a sufficient number of aryl and/or heteroaryl groups (typically phenylene groups) in the
   binder polymer of the present invention is an important factor for achieving suitable
15 coating performance for food-contact packaging coatings, especially when the product to
   be packaged is a so called "hard-to-hold" food or beverage product. Sauerkraut is an
   example of a hard-to-hold product. In preferred embodiments, aryl and/or heteroaryl
   groups constitute at least 20 wt-%, more preferably at least 30 wt-%, and even more
   preferably at least 45 wt-% of the polyether polymer, based on the total weight of aryl
20 and heteroaryl groups in the polymer relative to the weight of the polyether polymer.
   The upper concentration of aryl/heteroaryl groups is not particularly limited, but
   preferably the amount of such groups is configured such that the Tg of the polyether
   polymer does not exceed the Tg ranges previously discussed. The total amount of aryl
   and/or heteroaryl groups in the polyether polymer will typically constitute less than
25 about 80 wt-%, more preferably less than about 70 wt-%, and even more preferably less
   than 60 wt-% of the polyether polymer. The total amount of aryl and/or heteroaryl
   groups in the polyether polymer can be determined based on the weight of aryl- or
   heteroaryl-containing monomer incorporated into the polyether polymer and the weight
   fraction of such monomer that constitutes aryl or heteroaryl groups. In embodiments
30 where the polymer is a polyether copolymer (e.g., a polyether-acrylic copolymer), the
   weight fraction of aryl or heteroaryl groups in the polyether polymer portion(s) of the
   copolymer will generally be as described above, although the weight fraction relative to
   the total weight of the copolymer may be less.
                                                30

   [0101] Preferred aryl or heteroaryl groups include less than 20 carbon atoms, more
   preferably less than 11 carbon atoms, and even more preferably less than 8 carbon atoms.
   The aryl or heteroaryl groups preferably have at least 4 carbon atoms, more preferably at
   least 5 carbon atoms, and even more preferably at least 6 carbon atoms. Substituted or
 5 unsubstituted phenylene groups are preferred aryl or heteroaryl groups. Thus, in
   preferred embodiments, the polyether fraction of the polymer includes an amount of
   phenylene groups pursuant to the amounts recited above.
   [0102] The polymers of the present invention can be applied to a substrate as part of a
   coating composition that includes a liquid carrier. The liquid carrier may be water,
10 organic solvent, or mixtures of various such liquid carriers. Accordingly, liquid coating
   compositions of the present invention may be either water-based or solvent-based
   systems. Examples of suitable organic solvents include glycol ethers, alcohols, aromatic
   or aliphatic hydrocarbons, dibasic esters, ketones, esters, and the like, and combinations
   thereof. Preferably, such carriers are selected to provide a dispersion or solution of the
15 polymer for further formulation.
   [0103] It is anticipated that a polyether polymer of the present invention may be
   substituted for any conventional epoxy polymer present in a packaging coating
   composition known in the art. Thus, for example, the polyether polymer of the present
   invention may be substituted, for example, for a BPA/BADGE-containing polymer of an
20 epoxy/acrylic latex coating system, for a BPA/BADGE containing polymer of a solvent
   based epoxy coating system, etc.
   [0104] The amount of binder polymer of the present invention included in coating
   compositions may vary widely depending on a variety of considerations such as, for
   example, the method of application, the presence of other film-forming materials,
25 whether the coating composition is a water-based or solvent-based system, etc. For
   liquid-based coating compositions, however, the binder polymer of the present invention
   will typically constitute at least 10 wt-%, more typically at least 30 wt-%, and even more
   typically at least 50 wt-% of the coating composition, based on the total weight of resin
   solids in the coating composition. For such liquid-based coating compositions, the
30 binder polymer will typically constitute less than about 90 wt-%, more typically less than
   about 80 wt-%, and even more typically less than about 70 wt-% of the coating
   composition, based on the total weight of resin solids in the coating composition.
                                                 31

   [0105] In one embodiment, the coating composition is an organic solvent-based
   composition preferably having at least 20 wt-% non-volatile components (i.e., "solids"),
   and more preferably at least 30 wt-% non-volatile components. In one embodiment, the
   coating composition is an organic solvent-based composition preferably having no
 5 greater than 40 wt-% non-volatile components (i.e., "solids"), and more preferably no
   greater than 30 wt-% non-volatile components. For this embodiment, the non-volatile
   film-forming components preferably include at least 50 wt-% of the polymer of the
   invention, more preferably at least 55 wt-% of the polymer, and even more preferably at
   least 60 wt-% of the polymer. For this embodiment, the non-volatile film-forming
10 components preferably include no greater than 95 wt-% of the polymer of the invention,
   and more preferably no greater than 85 wt-% of the polymer.
   [0106] In one embodiment, the coating composition of the present invention is a solvent
   based system that includes no more than a de minimus amount of water (e.g., less than
   2 wt-% of water), if any.
15 [0107] In one embodiment, the coating composition is a water-based composition
   preferably having at least 15 wt-% non-volatile components (i.e., "solids"). In one
   embodiment, the coating composition is a water-based composition preferably having no
   greater than 50 wt-% non-volatile components (i.e., "solids"), and more preferably no
   greater than 40 wt-% non-volatile components. For this embodiment, the non-volatile
20 film-forming components preferably include at least 5 wt-% of the polymer of the
   present invention, more preferably at least 25 wt-% of the polymer, even more preferably
   at least 30 wt-% of the polymer, and optimally at least 40 wt-% of the polymer. For this
   embodiment, the non-volatile film forming components preferably include no greater
   than 70 wt-% of the polymer of the present invention, and more preferably no greater
25 than 60 wt-% of the polymer.
   [0108] If a water-based system is desired, techniques may be used such as those
   described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,943,187; 4,076,676; 4,247,439; 4,285,847; 4,413,015;
   4,446,258; 4,963,602; 5,296,525; 5,527,840; 5,830,952; 5,922,817; and U.S. Published
   Pat. Application No. 2004/0259989. Water-based coating systems of the present
30 invention may optionally include one or more organic solvents, which will typically be
   selected to be miscible in water. The liquid carrier system of water-based coating
   compositions will typically include at least 50 wt-% of water, more typically at least
   75 wt-% of water, and in some embodiments more than 90 wt-% or 95 wt-% of water.
                                                32

   Any suitable means may be used to render the polymer of the invention miscible in
   water. For example, the polymer may include a suitable amount of salt groups such as
   ionic or cationic salt groups to render the polymer miscible in water (or groups capable
   of forming such salt groups). Neutralized acid or base groups are preferred salt groups.
 5 [0109] In one embodiment, a water-dispersible polymer may be formed from preformed
   polymers (e.g.,(a) an oxirane-functional polymer, such as, e.g., a polyether polymer,
   preferably having at least one segment of Formula (I) and (b) an acid-functional polymer
   such as, e.g., an acid-functional acrylic polymer) in the presence of a tertiary amine.
   [0110] In another embodiment, a water-dispersible polymer may be formed from an
10 oxirane-functional polymer (more preferably a polyether polymer) preferably having at
   least one segment of Formula (I) that is reacted with ethylenically unsaturated monomers
   to form an acid-functional polymer, which may then be neutralized, for example, with a
   tertiary amine. Thus, for example, in one embodiment, a water-dispersible polymer
   preferably having at least one segment of Formula (I) may be formed pursuant to the
15 acrylic polymerization teachings of U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,285,847 and/or 4,212,781, which
   describe techniques for grafting acid-functional acrylic groups (e.g., via use of benzoyl
   peroxide) onto epoxy polymers. In another embodiment, acrylic polymerization may be
   achieved through reaction of ethylenically unsaturated monomers with unsaturation
   present in the polymer preferably containing at least one segment of Formula (I). See,
20 for example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,517,322 and/or U.S. Published Pat. Application
   No. 2005/0196629 for examples of such techniques.
   [0111] In another embodiment, a water-dispersible polymer may be formed having the
   structure E-L-A, wherein E is an epoxy portion of the polymer formed from a polyether
   polymer described herein, A is a polymerized acrylic portion of the polymer, and L is a
25 linking portion of the which covalently links E to A. Such a polymer can be prepared,
   for example, from (a) a polyether polymer described herein preferably having about two
   epoxy groups, (b) an unsaturated linking compound preferably having (i) either
   conjugated carbon-carbon double bonds or a carbon-carbon triple bond and (ii) a
   functional group capable of reacting with an epoxy group (e.g., a carboxylic group, a
30 hydroxyl group, an amino group, an amido group, a mercapto group, etc.). Preferred
   linking compounds include 12 or less carbon atoms, with sorbic acid being an example
   of a preferred such linking compound. The acrylic portion preferably includes one or
   more salt groups or salt-forming groups (e.g., acid groups such as present in ax,p
                                                 33

   ethylenically saturated carboxylic acid monomers). Such polymers may be formed, for
   example, using a BPA- and BADGE-free polyether polymer of the present invention in
   combination with the materials and techniques disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,830,952.
   [0112] In some embodiments, the coating composition of the present invention is
 5 substantially free of acrylic (e.g., includes less than about 1 wt-% of polymerized acrylic
   monomers).
   [0113] If desired, an acid-functional polymer can be combined with a tertiary amine to at
   least partially neutralize it prior to reaction with an oxirane-functional polymer
   preferably having at least one segment of Formula (I).
10 [0114] In another embodiment, a polymer preferably containing segments of Formula (I)
   and including -CH 2-CH(OH)-CH 2- segments, which are derived from an oxirane, is
   reacted with an anhydride. This provides acid functionality which, when combined with
   an amine or other suitable base to at least partially neutralize the acid functionality, is
   water dispersible.
15 [0115] A coating composition of the present invention may also include other optional
   ingredients that do not adversely affect the coating composition or a cured coating
   composition resulting therefrom. Such optional ingredients are typically included in a
   coating composition to enhance composition esthetics; to facilitate manufacturing,
   processing, handling, and application of the composition; and to further improve a
20 particular functional property of a coating composition or a cured coating composition
   resulting therefrom. For example, the composition that includes a polymer of the present
   invention may optionally include crosslinkers, fillers, catalysts, lubricants, pigments,
   surfactants, dyes, colorants, toners, coalescents, extenders, anticorrosion agents, flow
   control agents, thixotropic agents, dispersing agents, antioxidants, oxygen-scavenging
25 materials, adhesion promoters, light stabilizers, and mixtures thereof, as required to
   provide the desired film properties. Each optional ingredient is preferably included in a
   sufficient amount to serve its intended purpose, but not in such an amount to adversely
   affect a coating composition or a cured coating composition resulting therefrom.
   [0116] Preferred compositions are substantially free of mobile BPA and BADGE, and
30 more preferably essentially free of these compounds, and most preferably completely
   free of these compounds. The coating composition is also preferably substantially free
   of bound BPA and BADGE, more preferably essentially free of these compounds, and
   optimally completely free of these compounds. In addition, preferred compositions are
                                                   34

   also substantially free, more preferably essentially free, and most preferably completely
   free of: bisphenol S, bisphenol F, and the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol F or bisphenol S.
   [0117] It has been discovered that coating compositions using the aforementioned
   polymer-containing compositions may be formulated using one or more optional curing
 5 agents (i.e., crosslinking resins, sometimes referred to as "crosslinkers"). The choice of
   particular crosslinker typically depends on the particular product being formulated. For
   example, some coating compositions are highly colored (e.g., gold-colored coatings).
   These coatings may typically be formulated using crosslinkers that themselves tend to
   have a yellowish color. In contrast, white coatings are generally formulated using non
10 yellowing crosslinkers, or only a small amount of a yellowing crosslinker.
   [0118] Preferred curing agents are substantially free of mobile BPA and BADGE and
   more preferably completely free of bound BPA and BADGE. Suitable examples of such
   curing agents are hydroxyl-reactive curing resins such as phenoplasts, aminoplast,
   blocked or unblocked isocyanates, or mixtures thereof.
15 [0119] Suitable phenoplast resins include the condensation products of aldehydes with
   phenols. Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are preferred aldehydes. Various phenols can
   be employed such as phenol, cresol, p-phenylphenol, p-tert-butylphenol, p-tert
   amylphenol, cyclopentylphenol, and compounds of Formula (III).
   [0120] Suitable aminoplast resins are the condensation products of aldehydes such as
20 formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, crotonaldehyde, and benzaldehyde with amino- or amido
   group-containing substances such as urea, melamine, and benzoguanamine. Examples of
   suitable aminoplast crosslinking resins include, without limitation, benzoguanamine
   formaldehyde resins, melamine-formaldehyde resins, etherified melamine-formaldehyde,
   and urea-formaldehyde resins.
25 [0121] Examples of other generally suitable curing agents are the blocked or non
   blocked aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic di-, tri-, or poly-valent isocyanates, such as
   hexamethylene diisocyanate, cyclohexyl-1,4-diisocyanate, and the like. Further non
   limiting examples of generally suitable blocked isocyanates include isomers of
   isophorone diisocyanate, dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate, toluene diisocyanate,
30 diphenylmethane diisocyanate, phenylene diisocyanate, tetramethyl xylene diisocyanate,
   xylylene diisocyanate, and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, blocked isocyanates
   are used that have an Mn of at least about 300, more preferably at least about 650, and
   even more preferably at least about 1,000.
                                                35

   [0122] Polymeric blocked isocyanates are useful in certain embodiments. Some
   examples of suitable polymeric blocked isocyanates include a biuret or isocyanurate of a
   diisocyanate, a trifunctional "trimer," or a mixture thereof. Examples of suitable blocked
   polymeric isocyanates include TRIXENE BI 7951, TRIXENE BI 7984, TRIXENE BI
 5 7963, TRIXENE BI 7981 (TRIXENE materials are available from Baxenden Chemicals,
   Ltd., Accrington, Lancashire, England), DESMODUR BL 3175A, DESMODUR
   BL3272, DESMODUR BL3370, DESMODUR BL 3475, DESMODUR BL 4265,
   DESMODUR PL 340, DESMODUR VP LS 2078, DESMODUR VP LS 2117, and
   DESMODUR VP LS 2352 (DESMODUR materials are available from Bayer Corp.,
10 Pittsburgh, PA, USA), or combinations thereof. Examples of suitable trimers may
   include a trimerization product prepared from on average three diisocyanate molecules or
   a trimer prepared from on average three moles of diisocyanate (e.g., HMDI) reacted with
   one mole of another compound such as, for example, a triol (e.g., trimethylolpropane).
   [0123] The level of curing agent (i.e., crosslinker) used will typically depend on the type
15 of curing agent, the time and temperature of the bake, the molecular weight of the binder
   polymer, and the desired coating properties. If used, the crosslinker is typically present
   in an amount of up to 50 wt-%, preferably up to 30 wt-%, and more preferably up to
   15 wt-%. If used, a crosslinker is preferably present in an amount of at least 0.1 wt-%,
   more preferably at least 1 wt-%, and even more preferably at least 1.5 wt-%. These
20 weight percentages are based upon the total weight of the resin solids in the coating
   composition.
   [0124] A coating composition of the present invention may also include other optional
   polymers that do not adversely affect the coating composition or a cured coating
   composition resulting therefrom. Such optional polymers are typically included in a
25 coating composition as a filler material, although they can also be included, for example,
   as a binder polymer, a crosslinking material, or to provide desirable properties. One or
   more optional polymers (e.g., filler polymers) can be included in a sufficient amount to
   serve an intended purpose, but not in such an amount to adversely affect a coating
   composition or a cured coating composition resulting therefrom.
30 [0125] Such additional polymeric materials can be nonreactive, and hence, simply
   function as fillers. Such optional nonreactive filler polymers include, for example,
   polyesters, acrylics, polyamides, polyethers, and novalacs. Alternatively, such additional
   polymeric materials or monomers can be reactive with other components of the
                                                 36

   composition (e.g., an acid-functional or unsaturated polymer). If desired, reactive
   polymers can be incorporated into the compositions of the present invention, to provide
   additional functionality for various purposes, including crosslinking or dispersing the
   polymer of the present invention into water. Examples of such reactive polymers
 5 include, for example, functionalized polyesters, acrylics, polyamides, and polyethers.
   Preferred optional polymers are substantially free or essentially free of mobile BPA and
   BADGE, and more preferably completely free of mobile and bound such compounds.
   [0126] One preferred optional ingredient is a catalyst to increase the rate of cure.
   Examples of catalysts, include, but are not limited to, strong acids (e.g., phosphoric acid,
10 dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid (DDBSA), available as CYCAT 600 from Cytec),
   methane sulfonic acid (MSA), p-toluene sulfonic acid (pTSA), dinonylnaphthalene
   disulfonic acid (DNNDSA), and triflic acid); quaternary ammonium compounds;
   phosphorous compounds; and tin, titanium, and zinc compounds. Specific examples
   include, but are not limited to, a tetraalkyl ammonium halide, a tetraalkyl or tetraaryl
15 phosphonium iodide or acetate, tin octoate, zinc octoate, triphenylphosphine, and similar
   catalysts known to persons skilled in the art. If used, a catalyst is preferably present in
   an amount of at least 0.01 wt-%, and more preferably at least 0.1 wt-%, based on the
   weight of nonvolatile material in the coating composition. If used, a catalyst is
   preferably present in an amount of no greater than 3 wt-%, and more preferably no
20 greater than 1 wt-%, based on the weight of nonvolatile material in the coating
   composition.
   [0127] Another useful optional ingredient is a lubricant (e.g., a wax), which facilitates
   manufacture of fabricated metal articles (e.g., closures and food or beverage can ends) by
   imparting lubricity to sheets of coated metal substrate. Non-limiting examples of
25 suitable lubricants include, for example, natural waxes such as Carnauba wax or lanolin
   wax, polytetrafluoroethane (PTFE) and polyethylene-type lubricants. If used, a lubricant
   is preferably present in the coating composition in an amount of at least 0.1 wt-%, and
   preferably no greater than 2 wt-%, and more preferably no greater than 1 wt-%, based on
   the total weight of nonvolatile material in the coating composition.
30 [0128] Another useful optional ingredient is a pigment, such as titanium dioxide. If
   used, a pigment is present in the coating composition in an amount of no greater than
   70 wt-%, more preferably no greater than 50 wt-%, and even more preferably no greater
   than 40 wt-%, based on the total weight of solids in the coating composition.
                                                  37

   [0129] Surfactants can be optionally added to the coating composition to aid in flow and
   wetting of the substrate. Examples of surfactants, include, but are not limited to,
   nonylphenol polyethers and salts and similar surfactants known to persons skilled in the
   art. If used, a surfactant is preferably present in an amount of at least 0.01 wt-%, and
 5 more preferably at least 0.1 wt-%, based on the weight of resin solids. If used, a
   surfactant is preferably present in an amount no greater than 10 wt-%, and more
   preferably no greater than 5 wt-%, based on the weight of resin solids.
   [0130] The coating composition of the present invention can be present as a layer of a
   mono-layer coating system or one or more layers of a multi-layer coating system. The
10 coating composition can be used as a primer coat, an intermediate coat, a top coat, or a
   combination thereof. The coating thickness of a particular layer and the overall coating
   system will vary depending upon the coating material used, the substrate, the coating
   application method, and the end use for the coated article. Mono-layer or multi-layer
   coil coating systems including one or more layers formed from a coating composition of
15 the present invention may have any suitable overall coating thickness, but will typically
   have an overall average dry coating thickness of from about 2 to about 60 microns and
   more typically from about 3 to about 12 microns.
   [0131] The coating composition of the present invention may be applied to a substrate
   either prior to, or after, the substrate is formed into an article (such as, for example, a
20 food or beverage container or a portion thereof). In one embodiment, a method is
   provided that includes: applying a coating composition described herein to a metal
   substrate (e.g., applying the composition to the metal substrate in the form of a planar
   coil or sheet), hardening the composition, and forming (e.g., via stamping) the substrate
   into a packaging container or a portion thereof (e.g., a food or beverage can or a portion
25 thereof). For example, riveted beverage can ends having a cured coating of the present
   invention on a surface thereof can be formed in such a process. In another embodiment,
   the coating composition is applied to a preformed metal food or beverage can, or a
   portion thereof. For example, in some embodiments, the coating composition is spray
   applied to an interior surface of a preformed food or beverage can (e.g., as typically
30 occurs with "two-piece" beverage cans.).
   [0132] After applying the coating composition onto a substrate, the composition can be
   cured using a variety of processes, including, for example, oven baking by either
   conventional or convectional methods, or any other method that provides an elevated
                                                   38

   temperature suitable for curing the coating. The curing process may be performed in
   either discrete or combined steps. For example, substrates can be dried at ambient
   temperature to leave the coating compositions in a largely un-crosslinked state. The
   coated substrates can then be heated to fully cure the compositions. In certain instances,
 5 coating compositions of the present invention can be dried and cured in one step.
   [0133] The cure conditions will vary depending upon the method of application and the
   intended end use. The curing process may be performed at any suitable temperature,
   including, for example, oven temperatures in the range of from about 100'C to about
   300'C, and more typically from about 177'C to about 250'C. If metal coil is the
10 substrate to be coated, curing of the applied coating composition may be conducted, for
   example, by heating the coated metal substrate over a suitable time period to a peak
   metal temperature ("PMT") of preferably greater than about 350'F (177 0 C). More
   preferably, the coated metal coil is heated for a suitable time period (e.g., about 5 to 900
   seconds) to a PMT of at least about 425'F (218'C).
15 [0134] The coating compositions of the present invention are particularly useful for
   coating metal substrates. The coating compositions may be used to coat packaging
   articles such as a food or beverage container, or a portion thereof. In preferred
   embodiments, the container is a food or beverage can and the surface of the container is
   the surface of a metal substrate. The polymer can be applied to a metal substrate either
20 before or after the substrate is formed into a can (e.g., two-piece cans, three-piece cans)
   or portions thereof, whether it be a can end or can body. Preferred polymers of the
   present invention are suitable for use in food-contact situations and may be used on the
   inside of such cans. They are particularly useful on the interior of two-piece or three
   piece can ends or bodies.
25 [0135] The coating compositions of the present invention may be suitable, for example,
   for spray coating, coil coating, wash coating, sheet coating, and side seam coating (e.g.,
   food can side seam coating). A further discussion of such application methods is
   provided below. It is contemplated that coating compositions of the present invention
   may be suitably used in each of these application methods discussed further below,
30 including the end uses associated therewith.
   [0136] Spray coating includes the introduction of the coated composition into the inside
   of a preformed packaging container. Typical preformed packaging containers suitable
   for spray coating include food cans, beer and beverage containers, and the like. The
                                                 39

   spray process preferably utilizes a spray nozzle capable of uniformly coating the inside
   of the preformed packaging container. The sprayed preformed container is then
   subjected to heat to remove any residual carriers (e.g., water or solvents) and harden the
   coating.
 5 [0137] A coil coating is described as the coating of a continuous coil composed of a
   metal (e.g., steel or aluminum). Once coated, the coating coil is subjected to a short
   thermal, ultraviolet, and/or electromagnetic curing cycle, for hardening (e.g., drying and
   curing) of the coating. Coil coatings provide coated metal (e.g., steel and/or aluminum)
   substrates that can be fabricated into formed articles, such as two-piece drawn food cans,
10 three-piece food cans, food can ends, drawn and ironed cans, beverage can ends, and the
   like.
   [0138] A wash coating is commercially described as the coating of the exterior of two
   piece drawn and ironed ("D&I") cans with a thin layer of protectant coating. The
   exterior of these D&I cans are "wash-coated" by passing pre-formed two-piece D&I cans
15 under a curtain of a coating composition. The cans are inverted, that is, the open end of
   the can is in the "down" position when passing through the curtain. This curtain of
   coating composition takes on a "waterfall-like" appearance. Once these cans pass under
   this curtain of coating composition, the liquid coating material effectively coats the
   exterior of each can. Excess coating is removed through the use of an "air knife." Once
20 the desired amount of coating is applied to the exterior of each can, each can is passed
   through a thermal, ultraviolet, and/or electromagnetic curing oven to harden (e.g., dry
   and cure) the coating. The residence time of the coated can within the confines of the
   curing oven is typically from 1 minute to 5 minutes. The curing temperature within this
   oven will typically range from 150'C to 220C.
25 [0139] A sheet coating is described as the coating of separate pieces of a variety of
   materials (e.g., steel or aluminum) that have been pre-cut into square or rectangular
   "sheets." Typical dimensions of these sheets are approximately one square meter. Once
   coated, each sheet is cured. Once hardened (e.g., dried and cured), the sheets of the
   coated substrate are collected and prepared for subsequent fabrication. Sheet coatings
30 provide coated metal (e.g., steel or aluminum) substrate that can be successfully
   fabricated into formed articles, such as two-piece drawn food cans, three-piece food
   cans, food can ends, drawn and ironed cans, beverage can ends (including, e.g., riveted
   beverage can ends having a rivet for attaching a pull tab thereto), and the like.
                                                40

   [0140] A side seam coating is described as the application of a powder coating or the
   spray application of a liquid coating over the welded area of formed three-piece food
   cans. When three-piece food cans are being prepared, a rectangular piece of coated
   substrate is formed into a cylinder. The formation of the cylinder is rendered permanent
 5 due to the welding of each side of the rectangle via thermal welding. Once welded, each
   can typically requires a layer of coating, which protects the exposed "weld" from
   subsequent corrosion or other effects to the contained foodstuff. The coatings that
   function in this role are termed "side seam stripes." Typical side seam stripes are spray
   applied and cured quickly via residual heat from the welding operation in addition to a
10 small thermal, ultraviolet, and/or electromagnetic oven.
   [0141] Other commercial coating application and curing methods are also envisioned,
   for example, electrocoating, extrusion coating, laminating, powder coating, and the like.
   [0142] In certain preferred embodiments, the coating composition of the present
   invention is capable of exhibiting one or more (and in some embodiments all) of the
15 following coating properties: a blush resistance, corrosion resistance, stain resistance,
   and/or adhesion to metal substrate of at least 8, more preferably at least 9, and optimally
    10 (10 being perfect), when subjected to the testing described below in Example 5 using
   3 wt-% acetic acid in deionized water in place of the "Aggressive Food Product."
   [0143] The polymer of the present invention can be used in powder coating applications
20 for use in forming an adherent polymeric coating. Thus, in some embodiments, the
   coating composition of the present invention is a powder coating composition that
   preferably does not include a liquid carrier (although it may include trace amounts of
   residual water or organic solvent). The powder coating composition is preferably in the
   form of a finely divided, free flowing powder. In preferred embodiments, the powder
25 composition is a thermosettable powder composition that forms a thermoset coating
   when suitably cured. The discussion that follows relates to powder coating embodiments
   of the present invention.
   [0144] The powder coating composition of the present invention may be particularly
   useful in end uses in which a coated substrate is intended to contact substances for
30 consumption by humans or intimate contact with humans. For example, the powder
   coating compositions may be used to coat: surfaces of food or beverage containers,
   cosmetic containers, or medicinal containers; surfaces of valves and fittings, including
   surfaces intended for contact with potable water or other consumable liquids; surfaces of
                                                41

   pipes, including internal surfaces of water pipes or other liquid conveying pipes; and
   surfaces of tanks, including internal surfaces of water tanks such as bolted steel tanks.
   For powder coatings that will contact potable water, the cured powder coating
   composition should preferably comply with ANSI/NSF standard 61. Some examples of
 5 fittings include articles for use in liquid conveying systems (e.g., for use in conveying
   potable water) such as connectors (e.g., threaded or flanged connectors), elbows, flow
   splitters (e.g., T-fittings, etc.), backflow preventers, pipe end caps, and the like.
   [0145] The powder coating composition preferably includes at least a film-forming
   amount of the polymer of the present invention, which in preferred embodiments is a
10 polyether polymer having segments of Formula (I). In order to facilitate stability of the
   powder coating composition during storage prior to use, a polymer of the present
   invention is preferably selected that has a Tg of at least about 40'C, more preferably at
   least about 50'C, and even more preferably at least about 60'C. The powder coating
   composition preferably includes at least about 50 wt-%, more preferably at least
15 70 wt-%, and even more preferably at least 90 wt-% of the polymer of the present
   invention, based on total resin solids.
   [0146] Powder coating compositions typically utilize binder polymers having a different
   molecular weight (typically a lower molecular weight) than those of liquid packaging
   coating compositions for use on metal food or beverage cans. When used in powder
20 coating compositions, the polymer of the present invention preferably has a number
   average molecular weight (Mn) of at least about 1,000, more preferably at least about
    1,200, and even more preferably at least about 1,500. In such applications, the polymer
   of the present invention preferably has an Mn of less than about 6,000, more preferably
   less than about 5,000, and even more preferably less than about 4,000.
25 [0147] The powder coating composition preferably includes at least one base powder
   that includes the polymer of the present invention. The base powder may further include
   one or more optional ingredients, which may include any suitable ingredients disclosed
   herein. The base powder preferably includes the polymer of the present invention as a
   major component on a weight basis, and more preferably includes at least 50 wt-% of the
30 polymer. In some embodiments, the polymer of the present invention comprises all or
   substantially all of the base powder.
                                                   42

   [0148] The particles of the base powder may be of any suitable size. Preferably, the
   particles of the base powder exhibit a particle size diameter of from about 1 micron to
   about 200 microns, more preferably from about 10 to about 150 microns.
   [0149] The base powder may exhibit any suitable distribution of particle sizes. The
 5 median particle size of the base powder is preferably at least about 20 microns, more
   preferably at least about 30 microns, and even more preferably at least about 40 microns.
   In preferred embodiments, the median particle size is less than about 150 microns, more
   preferably less than about 100 microns, and even more preferably less than about 60
   microns. The median particle sizes referenced in this paragraph are median diameter
10 particle sizes expressed on a volume basis, which may be determined, for example, via
   laser diffraction.
   [0150] Powder compositions of the present invention may also contain one or more other
   optional ingredients. The optional ingredients preferably do not adversely affect the
   powder compositions or articles formed therefrom. Such optional ingredients may be
15 included, for example, to enhance aesthetics; to facilitate manufacturing, processing,
   and/or handling of powder compositions or articles formed therefrom; and/or to further
   improve a particular property of powder compositions or articles formed therefrom.
   Each optional ingredient is preferably included in a sufficient amount to serve its
   intended purpose, but not in such an amount to adversely affect a powder composition or
20 a cured coating resulting therefrom. The one or more optional ingredients may be
   present in a same or different particle than the polymer of the present invention, or a
   combination thereof. In preferred embodiments, one or more optional ingredients are
   present in the particles of the base powder along with the polymer of the present
   invention. If present in particles other than those of the base powder, the particles of the
25 optional ingredient(s) preferably have a particle size in the general range of the particles
   sizes of the base powder.
   [0151] The powder composition preferably includes one or more optional curing agents
   (i.e., crosslinkers). Suitable curing agents may include phenolic crosslinkers, preferably
   BPA-free phenolic crosslinkers; dicyandiamide, which may be optionally substituted;
30 carboxyl-functional compounds such as, e.g., carboxyl-functional polyester resins or
   carboxyl-functional acrylic resins; and combinations thereof. The powder composition
   may include any suitable amount of the one or more crosslinkers. In some embodiments,
   crosslinker is present in the powder composition in an amount of up to about 15 wt-%,
                                                 43

   preferably up to about 10 wt-%, and more preferably up to about 5 wt-%, based on the
   total weight of the powder coating composition. If used, crosslinker is preferably present
   in an amount of at least about 0.1 wt-%, more preferably at least about 0.5 wt-%, and
   even more preferably at least about 1 wt %, based on the total weight of the powder
 5 coating composition.
   [0152] An optional cure accelerator may be present in the powder coating composition
   to facilitate cure. When used, the powder coating composition typically includes from
   about 0.1 wt-% to about 3 wt-% of one or more cure accelerators. 2-methylimidazole is
   an example of a preferred cure accelerator. Other suitable cure accelerators may include
10 imidazoles, phosphonium salts, tertiary amines, quaternary ammonium salts, anhydrides,
   polyamides, aliphatic amines, epoxy resin-amine adducts, and combinations thereof.
   [0153] The powder coating composition may optionally include one or more flow
   control agents to improve the flow, wetting, and/or leveling properties of the cured film.
   If used, flow control agents are typically present in an amount of about 0.01 wt-% to
15 about 5 wt-%, more typically from about 0.2 wt-% to about 2 wt-%, based on the total
   weight of the powder coating composition. Examples of suitable flow control agents
   include polyacrylates such as poly(2-ethylhexyl acrylate) and various co-polymers of
   2-ethylhexyl acrylate.
   [0154] The powder coating composition may optionally include one or more fluidizing
20 agents to facilitate the preparation of a free-flowing powder composition. If used,
   fluidizing agent is typically present in an amount of about 0.01 wt-% to about 5 wt-%,
   more typically from about 0.05 wt-% to about 0.5 wt-%, based on the total weight of the
   powder coating composition. Suitable fluidizing agents include, for example, fumed
   silicas of a suitable particle size. Such fluidizing agents may preferably be added after
25 the melt blending process, such as to the extruded flake before or after grinding.
   [0155] Inorganic filler and/or colored pigment may optionally be included in the powder
   coating compositions. Examples of suitable such materials may include calcium silicates
   such as, e.g., wollastonite; barium sulfate; calcium carbonate; mica; talc; silica; iron
   oxide; titanium dioxide; carbon black; phthalocyanines; chromium oxide; and
30 combinations thereof.
   [0156] The powder coating compositions can be prepared via any suitable methods. In
   one embodiment, some or all of the ingredients are melt-blended together, which may be
   accomplished, for example, using conventional single-screw or twin-screw extruders.
                                                  44

   The temperature of the melt-blending step is preferably controlled to avoid any
   appreciable cross-linking. Typically, a melt-blending temperature is selected such that
   the temperate of the molten blend does not exceed about 100'C to about 150'C. The
   ingredients may optionally be pre-mixed prior to melt blending. After melt blending and
 5 cooling, the resulting blend, which is typically an extrudate, can be processed into
   powder using conventional milling techniques. The resulting milled powder can
   optionally be sieved to remove particles falling outside the desired particle size range.
   The powder can optionally be mixed with one or more additional powders to form the
   finished powder coating composition. For example, in some embodiments, the milled
10 powder is combined with fluidizing agent powder either before or after optional sieving.
   [0157] The powder coatings compositions can be applied to substrate using any suitable
   method. Typically, the substrate is a metal substrate (e.g., cast iron, steel, etc.), which
   may be bare metal or may be optionally pretreated and/or primed. One suitable such
   method is the electrostatic spray application of charged powder to substrate.
15 Alternatively, the substrate may be applied, for example, by dipping the substrate in a
   fluidized powder bed. In a preferred embodiment, the powder is applied to heated
   substrate that has been heated to between 190'C and 240'C. Upon contacting the heated
   metal substrate, the powder melts, reacts, and forms a continuous coating that is
   preferably smooth and uniform. In another embodiment, the powder is applied to a near
20 ambient temperature substrate and the powder coated substrate is then heated to a
   temperature sufficient to cause the powder to melt, react, and form a continuous coating
   that is preferably smooth and uniform.
   [0158] The melting and curing (i.e., crosslinking) of the powder composition may be
   performed in combined or discrete heating steps. In presently preferred embodiments, a
25 combined heating step is used in which the powder coating composition is heated to a
   temperature sufficient to both melt the powder and cure the resulting continuous coating.
   The bake temperature and the duration of the bake will vary depending upon a variety of
   factors, including, for example, the end use. For purposes of curing the coating, the bake
   temperature is typically at least about 150'C, and more typically at least about 200'C. In
30 general, a lower cure temperature may be used if a longer cure time is employed. The
   cure temperature typically will not exceed about 240'C. The cure time may range, for
   example, from about 30 seconds to about 30 minutes, depending upon the cure
   temperature and the end use.
                                                45

   [0159] The thickness of the cured powder coating will vary depending upon the
   particular end use. However, typically the cured powder coating will have an average
   coating thickness in the range of about 25 to about 1,500 microns, and more typically
   about 50 to about 500 microns. In some embodiments, an average coating thickness in
 5 the range of about 125 to about 300 microns is used.
                                        EMBODIMENTS
   [0160] Some additional non-limiting embodiments are provided below to further
   exemplify the present invention.
   [0161] Embodiment 1: A polymer, more preferably a polyether polymer having one or
10 more segments of the below Formula (I):
                           (H)w-                 (R2)"            (H)W_,
                              0                                        0         Formula (I)
                            (R1)                                 (R1)v
   wherein:
       * each of the pair of oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I) is preferably present in
           an ether or ester linkage, more preferably an ether linkage;
15     e   "H" denotes a hydrogen atom, if present;
       * each R1 is independently an atom or group preferably having an atomic weight of
           at least 15 daltons, wherein each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I)
           preferably includes at least one R1 attached to the ring at an ortho or meta
           position relative to the oxygen atom;
20     *   v is independently 1 to 4;
       * w is 4;
       * R2, if present, is preferably a divalent group;
       * n is 0 or 1, with the proviso that if n is 0, the phenylene groups depicted in
           Formula (I) can optionally join to form a fused ring system with each other (e.g.,
25         a substituted naphthalene group), in which case w is 3;
       * wherein two or more R1 and/or R2 groups can join to form one or more cyclic
           groups; and
       * the polymer is preferably free of BPA or BADGE.
                                                46

   [0162] Embodiment 2: A polyether polymer that is the reaction product of ingredients
   including:
                          (Hwv(R             2)          (H),_
     R4   (R3)s-O                                             O-(R3        R4
                                                                                    Formula (II)
    O                 (R )v                             (R1)v                0
                  R4                                               4
       R4    4                                                    R4      R4
   wherein:
               1    2
        *   R , R , n, v, and w are as described above for Formula (I);
 5      *   each of the phenylene groups depicted in Formula (I) includes at least one R1 that
            is preferably attached to the ring at an ortho or meta position relative to the
            depicted oxygen atom, more preferably an ortho position;
        Ss    is 0 to 1;
        *   R 3, if present, is a divalent group, more preferably a divalent organic group; and
10      e   preferably each R4 is independently a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, or a
            hydrocarbon group that may include one or more heteroatoms.
   [0163] Embodiment 3: A coating composition comprising the polymer of Embodiments
    1 or 2 (preferably in at least a film-forming amount) and one or more optional
   ingredients selected from a crosslinker and a liquid carrier.
15 [0164] Embodiment 4: An article (preferably a packaging article, more preferably a
   food or beverage container or a portion thereof) having a substrate (preferably a metal
   substrate), wherein the coating composition of Embodiment 3 is applied on at least a
   portion of the substrate.
   [0165] Embodiment 5: A method comprising: providing a substrate (preferably a metal
20 substrate) and applying the coating composition of Embodiment 3 on at least a portion of
   the substrate.
   [0166] Embodiment 6: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer and/or coating composition is at least
   substantially free of BPA or BADGE.
25 [0167] Embodiment 7: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein each of the depicted phenylene groups in Formula (I) or
                                                   47

   Formula (II) has at least one ortho or meta R (relative to the depicted oxygen) that is an
   organic group, more preferably an organic group that includes from 1 to 4 carbon atoms,
   even more preferably 1 to 2 carbon atoms.
   [0168] Embodiment 8: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
 5 preceding embodiment, wherein each of the depicted phenylene groups in Formula (I) or
   Formula (II) has at least one ortho or meta R1 (relative to the depicted oxygen) that is
   independently a group selected from substituted or unsubstituted methyl groups, ethyl
   groups, propyl groups, butyl groups, or an isomer thereof.
   [0169] Embodiment 9: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
10 preceding embodiment, wherein each phenylene group depicted in Formula (I) or
   Formula (II) includes R's attached to the ring at both ortho positions relative to the
   depicted oxygen atom.
   [0170] Embodiment 10: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the segment of Formula (I) is derived from 4,4'
15 methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol); 2,2'-methylenebis(4-methyl-6-t-butylphenol);
   4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol); 4,4'butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol), a
   derivative thereof, or a diepoxide thereof (more preferably a diglycidyl ether thereof).
   [0171] Embodiment 11: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein each phenylene group depicted in Formula (I) or
20 Formula (II) includes at least one R1 attached to the ring at an ortho position relative to
   the depicted oxygen atom.
   [0172] Embodiment 12: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein n is 1.
   [0173] Embodiment 13: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
25 preceding embodiment, wherein n is 1 and R2 has a atomic mass of less than 500, more
   preferably less than 200, even more preferably less than 100.
   [0174] Embodiment 14: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein R is an organic group containing less than 15 carbon
   atoms, more preferably I to 10 carbon atoms, and in certain embodiments I to 2 carbon
30 atoms .
   [0175] Embodiment 14.5: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein n is 1 and R2 is an organic group of the formula
   C(R 7 R8 ) -, wherein R7 and R8 are each independently a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom,
                                                48

   an organic group, a sulfur-containing group, a nitrogen-containing group, or any other
   suitable group that is preferably substantially non-reactive with an epoxy group, and
   wherein R7 and R8 can optionally join to form a cyclic group.
   [0176] Embodiment 15: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
 5 preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer (preferably a polyether polymer) includes
   one or more pendant hydroxyl groups attached to backbone carbon atoms.
   [0177] Embodiment 16: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein a backbone of the polymer includes -CH 2-CH(OH)
   CH 2 - segments.
10 [0178] Embodiment 17: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein -CH 2-CH(OH)-CH 2- segments are attached to each of
   the ether oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I).
   [0179] Embodiment 18: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer (preferably a polyether polymer) has a Tg
15 of at least 60'C, more preferably at least 70'C, even more preferably at least 80'C.
   [0180] Embodiment 19: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein aryl or heteroaryl groups (more typically phenylene
   groups) constitute at least 20 wt-% of the polyether polymer, based on the total weight of
   aryl and heteroaryl groups present in the polymer relative to the weight of the polymer.
20 [0181] Embodiment 20: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer includes a plurality of segments of
   Formula (I) and, in some embodiments, includes at least: 1 wt-%, 5 wt-%, 10 wt-%,
   20 wt-%, 30 wt-%, or 50 wt-% of the segments of Formula (I).
   [0182] Embodiment 21: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
25 preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer is a polyether polymer and the polyether
   polymer (or polyether polymer fraction of a copolymer such as a polyether-acrylic
   copolymer) includes at least 20 wt-%, at least 30 wt-%, or at least 50 wt-% of segments
   of Formula (I).
   [0183] Embodiment 22: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
30 preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer and/or coating composition is at least
   substantially free of acrylic (i.e., includes less than 1 wt-% of polymerized acrylic
   monomers, if any).
                                                   49

   [0184] Embodiment 23: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer includes a plurality of segments of the
   below Formula (IV):
                                          -O-Ar-(Yu-Ar)t-O
 5 wherein:
       * each Ar is preferably a phenylene group, more preferably an unsubstituted
           phenylene group;
       * u is independently 0 or 1;
       *   t is independently 0 or 1;
10     e   Y, if present, is a divalent group; and
       * the two oxygen atoms are preferably each ether oxygen.
   [0185] Embodiment 24: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of
   Embodiment 23, wherein Y is a divalent organic group having a molecular weight of less
   than 500.
15 [0186] Embodiment 25: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of
   Embodiments 24 or 25, wherein the segment of Formula (IV) has a molecular weight
   greater than that of bisphenol A.
   [0187] Embodiment 26: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any of
   Embodiments 23-25 wherein t and u are each 1 and Yu includes one or more ester
20 linkages.
   [0188] Embodiment 27: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any of
   Embodiments 23-26, wherein Y includes one or more monocyclic or polycyclic groups.
   [0189] Embodiment 28: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer comprises a polyether polymer that is a
25 reaction product of ingredients including (i) a polyepoxide having a segment of
   Formula (I) or a polyepoxide compound of Formula (II) and (ii) a polyhydric phenol.
   [0190] Embodiment 28.5: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of
   Embodiment 28, wherein one or more (and more preferably all) of the following are true:
           (a) the polyepoxide of (i) is formed from a polyhydric phenol that does not
30         exhibit appreciable estrogenic activity (e.g., when tested using the MCF-7 assay
           it preferably exhibits an RPE having a logarithmic value of less than about -2.0);
                                                  50

            (b) the polyepoxide of (i) does not exhibit mutagenicity or any other unsuitable
            genotoxicity (i.e., the polyepoxide is non-genotoxic in, e.g., the comet assay); and
            (c) the polyhydric phenol of (ii) does not exhibit appreciable estrogenic activity.
   [0191] Embodiment 29: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of
 5 Embodiment 28, wherein the polyhydric phenol is of the formula:
                         HO-Ar-(R5),-Z-R           6
                                                     -Z-   (R 5 ), -Ar-OH
   wherein:
        * each Ar is independently a divalent aryl group or heteroaryl group (more
            typically a substituted or unsubstituted phenylene group);
10      e   each R , if present, is independently a divalent organic group;
        * R6 is a divalent organic group;
        * each Z is independently an ester linkage of either directionality (i.e., -C(O)-O- or
            -O-C(O)-) and
        * each w is 0 or 1.
15 [0192] Embodiment 30: A polymer, coating composition, article, or method of any
   preceding embodiment, wherein the polymer has an Mn of from 2,000 to 20,000.
   [0193] Embodiment 31: A coating composition, article, or method of any preceding
   embodiment, wherein the coating composition, by weight total resin solids, includes at
   least 5 wt-% or 10 wt-% of the polyether polymer.
20 [0194] Embodiment 32: A coating composition, article, or method of any preceding
   embodiment, wherein the coating composition is a food-contact coating.
   [0195] Embodiment 33: A coating composition, article, or method of any preceding
   embodiment, wherein the coating composition is one of: a solvent-based coating
   composition or a water-based coating composition.
25 [0196] Embodiment 34: A coating composition, article, or method of any preceding
   embodiment, wherein the coating composition is a water-based coating composition that
   is at least substantially free of acrylic.
   [0197] Embodiment 35: A method of any preceding embodiment, wherein the substrate
   is formed into a packaging container or a portion thereof (e.g., a food or beverage
30 container or a portion thereof) after application of the coating composition.
   [0198] Embodiment 36: A method or article of any preceding embodiment, wherein the
   coated article comprises a metal food or beverage container, a cosmetic container, a
   pharmaceutical container, or a portion thereof (e.g., a can end) having the coating
                                                  51

   composition applied to one or more of: an exterior surface or an interior (i.e., product
   contact) surface.
   [0199] Embodiment 37: A coating composition, article, or method of any of
   Embodiments 1-32, 35, and 36, wherein the coating composition comprises a powder
 5 coating composition.
   [0200] Embodiment 38: The article or Embodiment 37, wherein the article is an article
   for conveying or storing potable water (e.g., a water valve, water fitting, water pipe, a
   bolted steel water tank or a panel for use therein, etc.).
   [0201] Segments of Formula (I) and compounds of Formulas (II) or (III) wherein each of
10 the depicted phenylene groups include one or two ortho X groups (relative to the
   depicted oxygen atom) are presently preferred. To further illustrate such structures,
   below is a table exemplifying some non-limiting combinations of one or more ortho X
   and R 2 for a given phenylene group. The table is non-limiting with respect to the ring
   position of R2 (e.g., ortho, meta, para), although typically R2 will be located at a para
15 position relative to the oxygen atom. The columns labeled "Ortho Position A" and
   "Ortho Position B" indicate the group present at each ortho position of the phenylene
   group (assuming R2 is not located at an ortho position). Positions "A" or "B" can be
   either ortho position relative to the depicted oxygen atom. If R2 is located at an ortho
   position of the phenylene group, then the group listed in the "Ortho Position B" column
20 is not present. Typically, the phenylene groups in a given segment of Formula (I) or
   compound of Formula (II) or (III) will be "symmetric" relative to the second phenylene
   group such that the same ortho group (as delineated in the ortho position column "A" or
   "B") is located on each ring at the same ortho position.
   [0202] The below table is also intended as a listing of independent examples of X or
25 as well as examples of combinations of X and R2 (regardless of whether X is ortho or
   meta relative to the oxygen atom, whether other X are present in a particular phenylene
   group, or whether the one or more X are the same for both of the phenylene groups).
   This additional purpose is the reason for the additional qualifier "or X" in the legend of
   the first column.
     Ortho Position "A" (or X)        Ortho Position "B"                     R2
                Butyl                      Hydrogen                     2-Butylidene
                Butyl                       Methyl                      2-Butylidene
                Butyl                        Ethyl                      2-Butylidene
                Butyl                        Propyl                     2-Butylidene
                                                  52

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"      R
          Butyl               isopropyl      2-Butylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       2-Butylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       2-Butylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       2-Butylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       2-Butylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       2-Butylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       2-Butylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      2-Butylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       2-Butylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       2-Butylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       2-Butylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       2-Butylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl       2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      2-Butylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     2-Butylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen         Butylene
          Butyl                 Methyl         Butylene
          Butyl                  Ethyl         Butylene
          Butyl                 Propyl         Butylene
          Butyl               isopropyl        Butylene
          Butyl                  Butyl         Butylene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen         Butylene
          Ethyl                 Methyl         Butylene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl         Butylene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen         Butylene
       Isopropyl                Methyl         Butylene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl         Butylene
       Isopropyl                Propyl         Butylene
                                     53

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"       R
       Isopropyl              isopropyl         Butylene
         Methyl               Hydrogen          Butylene
         Methyl                 Methyl          Butylene
         Propyl               Hydrogen          Butylene
         Propyl                 Methyl          Butylene
         Propyl                  Ethyl          Butylene
         Propyl                 Propyl          Butylene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen          Butylene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl          Butylene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl          Butylene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl          Butylene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl         Butylene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl          Butylene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl         Butylene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen          Butylene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl          Butylene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl          Butylene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl          Butylene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl         Butylene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl          Butylene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl         Butylene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl        Butylene
          Butyl               Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl       Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl      Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      Cyclohexylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
                                     54

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"       R
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl       Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl       Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl       Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl      Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       Cyclopentylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       Cyclopentylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       Cyclopentylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       Cyclopentylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      Cyclopentylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Cyclopentylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       Cyclopentylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      Cyclopentylidene
                                     55

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"        R
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      Cyclopentylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     Cyclopentylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen          Ethylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl          Ethylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl          Ethylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl          Ethylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl         Ethylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl          Ethylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen          Ethylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl          Ethylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl          Ethylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen          Ethylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl          Ethylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl          Ethylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl          Ethylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl         Ethylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen          Ethylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl          Ethylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen          Ethylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl          Ethylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl          Ethylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl         Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl          Ethylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl         Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen          Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl          Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl          Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl          Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl         Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl          Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl         Ethylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl        Ethylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl       Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl      Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       Iso-Propylidene
                                     56

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"        R
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       Iso-Propylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      Iso-Propylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       Iso-Propylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl       Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      Iso-Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     Iso-Propylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen         Methylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl         Methylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl         Methylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl         Methylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl        Methylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl         Methylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen         Methylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl         Methylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl         Methylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen         Methylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl         Methylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl         Methylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl         Methylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl        Methylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen         Methylidene
                                     57

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"     R
         Methyl                 Methyl       Methylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Methylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Methylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Methylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      Methylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       Methylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      Methylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       Methylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       Methylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl       Methylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       Methylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      Methylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       Methylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      Methylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     Methylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen       Propylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl       Propylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl       Propylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl       Propylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl      Propylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       Propylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       Propylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       Propylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       Propylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       Propylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       Propylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       Propylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       Propylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      Propylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       Propylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       Propylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Propylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Propylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Propylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Propylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Propylidene
                                     58

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"            R
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl             Propylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl              Propylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl             Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen              Propylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl              Propylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl              Propylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl              Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl             Propylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl              Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl             Propylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl            Propylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                 Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                  Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                 Propyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl               isopropyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl                  Butyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl               Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl                 Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Ethyl                  Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl                Propyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       Isopropyl              isopropyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Methyl               Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Methyl                 Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl               Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                 Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                  Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
         Propyl                 Propyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                Propyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl               Methyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl               Propyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl                Butyl       Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
                                     59

Ortho Position "A" (or X) Ortho Position "B"            R
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl      Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl     Trimethyl Cyclohexylidene
          Butyl               Hydrogen             Acetophenone
          Butyl                 Methyl             Acetophenone
          Butyl                  Ethyl             Acetophenone
          Butyl                 Propyl             Acetophenone
          Butyl               isopropyl            Acetophenone
          Butyl                  Butyl             Acetophenone
          Ethyl               Hydrogen             Acetophenone
          Ethyl                 Methyl             Acetophenone
          Ethyl                  Ethyl             Acetophenone
       Isopropyl              Hydrogen             Acetophenone
       Isopropyl                Methyl             Acetophenone
       Isopropyl                 Ethyl             Acetophenone
       Isopropyl                Propyl             Acetophenone
       Isopropyl              isopropyl            Acetophenone
         Methyl               Hydrogen             Acetophenone
         Methyl                 Methyl             Acetophenone
         Propyl               Hydrogen             Acetophenone
         Propyl                 Methyl             Acetophenone
         Propyl                  Ethyl             Acetophenone
         Propyl                 Propyl             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl              Hydrogen             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl                Methyl             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl                 Ethyl             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl                Propyl             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl              isopropyl            Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl                 Butyl             Acetophenone
       sec-Butyl              sec-Butyl            Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl             Hydrogen             Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl               Methyl             Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl                Ethyl             Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl               Propyl             Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl             isopropyl            Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl                Butyl             Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl             sec-Butyl            Acetophenone
       tert-Butyl             tert-Butyl           Acetophenone
          Butyl               Hydrogen             Benzophenone
          Butyl                 Methyl             Benzophenone
          Butyl                  Ethyl             Benzophenone
          Butyl                 Propyl             Benzophenone
          Butyl               isopropyl            Benzophenone
          Butyl                  Butyl             Benzophenone
          Ethyl               Hydrogen             Benzophenone
                                      60

     Ortho Position "A" (or X)       Ortho Position "B"                  R_
                Ethyl                      Methyl                   Benzophenone
                Ethyl                       Ethyl                   Benzophenone
              Isopropyl                  Hydrogen                   Benzophenone
              Isopropyl                    Methyl                   Benzophenone
              Isopropyl                     Ethyl                   Benzophenone
              Isopropyl                     Propyl                  Benzophenone
              Isopropyl                   isopropyl                 Benzophenone
                Methyl                   Hydrogen                   Benzophenone
                Methyl                     Methyl                   Benzophenone
                Propyl                   Hydrogen                   Benzophenone
                Propyl                     Methyl                   Benzophenone
                Propyl                      Ethyl                   Benzophenone
                Propyl                      Propyl                  Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                  Hydrogen                   Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                    Methyl                   Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                     Ethyl                   Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                     Propyl                  Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                   isopropyl                 Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                     Butyl                   Benzophenone
              sec-Butyl                   sec-Butyl                 Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                 Hydrogen                   Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                   Methyl                   Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                    Ethyl                   Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                    Propyl                  Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                  isopropyl                 Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                    Butyl                   Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                  sec-Butyl                 Benzophenone
              tert-Butyl                 tert-Butyl                 Benzophenone
                                       TEST METHODS
   [0203] Unless indicated otherwise, the following test methods were utilized in the
   Examples that follow.
 5 Differential Scanning Calorimetry
   [0204] Samples for differential scanning calorimetry ("DSC") testing were prepared by
   first applying the liquid resin composition onto aluminum sheet panels. The panels were
   then baked in a Fisher Isotemp electric oven for 20 minutes at 300'F (149'C) to remove
   volatile materials. After cooling to room temperature, the samples were scraped from the
10 panels, weighed into standard sample pans and analyzed using the standard DSC heat
   cool-heat method. The samples were equilibrated at -60'C, then heated at 20'C per
                                                 61

   minute to 200'C, cooled to -60'C, and then heated again at 20'C per minute to 200'C.
   Glass transitions and melt points were calculated from the thermogram of the last heat
   cycle. The glass transition was measured at the inflection point of the transition and the
   melt point was measured at the peak maximum of the melting peak.
 5 Adhesion
   [0205] Adhesion testing is performed to assess whether the coating adheres to the coated
   substrate. The adhesion test was performed according to ASTM D 3359 - Test Method
   B, using SCOTCH 610 tape (available from 3M Company of Saint Paul, Minnesota).
   Adhesion is generally rated on a scale of 0-10 where a rating of "10" indicates no
10 adhesion failure, a rating of "9" indicates 90% of the coating remains adhered, a rating of
   "8" indicates 80% of the coating remains adhered, and so on. Adhesion ratings of 10 are
   typically desired for commercially viable coatings.
   Blush Resistance
   [0206] Blush resistance measures the ability of a coating to resist attack by various
15 solutions. Typically, blush is measured by the amount of water absorbed into a coated
   film. When the film absorbs water, it generally becomes cloudy or looks white. Blush is
   generally measured visually using a scale of 0-10 where a rating of "10" indicates no
   blush and a rating of "0" indicates complete whitening of the film. Blush ratings of at
   least 7 are typically desired for commercially viable coatings and optimally 9 or above.
20 Corrosion
   [0207] Corrosion is a measure of a coatings ability to resist a corrosive/acidic
   environment. It is generally measured on a scale of 0-10. A "0" indicates the coating is
   completely corroded, observed by bubbling or blistering of the film in all areas. A "10"
   indicates the coating is unchanged from before it was subjected to the corrosive
25 environment.
   Stain
   [0208] Stain is a measure of a coating's ability to resist staining by a media. It is
   generally measured on a scale of 0-10. A "0" indicates that the coating is completely
   stained with a complete color change of the film observed in all areas. A "10" indicates
30 that the coloration of the coating is unchanged from before it was subjected to the
   staining environment.
                                                 62

   Pencil Hardness
   [0209] This test measures the hardness of a cured coating. Pencil hardness was assessed
   using ASTM D3363, with the test run against metal grain. The data is reported in the
   form of the last successful pencil prior to film rupture. Thus, for example, if a coating
 5 does not rupture when tested with a 2H pencil, but ruptures when tested with a 3H
   pencil, the coating is reported to have a pencil hardness of 2H.
   Metal Exposure
   [0210] This test measures the ability of a coated substrate to retain its integrity as it
   undergoes the formation process necessary to produce a fabricated article such as a
10 beverage can end. It is a measure of the presence or absence of cracks or fractures in the
   formed end. The end is typically placed on a cup filled with an electrolyte solution. The
   cup is inverted to expose the surface of the end to the electrolyte solution. The amount
   of electrical current that passes through the end is then measured. If the coating remains
   intact (no cracks or fractures) after fabrication, minimal current will pass through the
15 end.
   [0211] For the present evaluation, fully converted riveted 202 standard opening beverage
   ends were exposed for a period of approximately 4 seconds to a room-temperature
   electrolyte solution comprised of 1% NaCl by weight in deionized water. The coating
   evaluated was present on the interior surface of the beverage end. Metal exposure was
20 measured using a WACO Enamel Rater II (available from the Wilkens-Anderson
   Company, Chicago, IL) with an output voltage of 6.3 volts. The measured electrical
   current, in milliamps, is reported. End continuities were tested initially and then after the
   ends were subjected to a boiling Dowfax detergent solution (the Dowfax product is
   available from Dow Chemical) for 60 minutes. After cooling and drying, the milliamps
25 of current passing through the end was measured again.
   [0212] Preferred coatings of the present invention initially pass less than 10 milliamps
   (mA) when tested as described above, more preferably less than 5 mA, most preferably
   less than 2 mA, and optimally less than 1 mA. After Dowfax, preferred coatings give
   continuities of less than 20 mA, more preferably less than 10 mA, and even more
30 preferably less than 5 mA.
                                                  63

   Solvent Resistance
   [0213] The extent of "cure" or crosslinking of a coating is measured as a resistance to
   solvents, such as methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) (available from Exxon, Newark, NJ). This
   test is performed as described in ASTM D 5402-93. The number of double-rubs (i.e.,
 5 one back-and forth motion) is reported. This test is often referred to as "MEK
   Resistance."
                                           EXAMPLES
   [0214] The following examples are offered to aid in understanding of the present
   invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. Unless otherwise
10 indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. The constructions cited were
   evaluated by tests as follows:
                    Example 1: Diepoxides of Ortho-Substituted Diphenols
   Run I: Diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-tert-butvlphenol)
   [0215] A solution of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol) (500 grams, 1.076 moles
15 obtained from Albemarle Corporation) in anhydrous dimethylformamide (1.5 liters) was
   cooled to -10 0 C and a solution of sodium tert-pentoxide (374 grams, 3.23 moles) in
   anhydrous dimethylformamide (1.5 liters) was added drop wise at -10 to -5'C. The
   mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at -10 0 C. Epichlorohydrin (1.9 liters, 24.2 moles)
   was added via dropping funnel at -10 to -5'C. The solution was allowed to warm up to
20 room temperature and then was heated for 16 hours at a temperature of from 75 to 82'C.
   After cooling down to ambient temperature, the mixture was added to cold tap water (12
   liters). Ethyl acetate (5 liters) was added to the mixture, which was stirred for 10
   minutes and separated. The aqueous layer was extracted again with additional ethyl
   acetate (3 liters). The combined ethyl acetate extracts were washed twice with brine (2 x
25 6 liters), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate (600 grams), and filtered. The solvent was
   removed under reduced pressure to give 887 grams of crude product as a purple oil. The
   crude product was dissolved in toluene (600 milliliters) and passed over a silica gel pad
   (1.4 kilograms), and eluted with a mixture of toluene and heptane (8 parts toluene to 2
   parts heptane). The fractions containing product were combined and evaporated under
30 reduced pressure. The product was mostly the desired diepoxide (756 grams, yellow oil
   which crystallizes in time), with some monoepoxide present. The purified material (756
   grams) was dissolved at 70'C in 2-propanol (2.3 liters) and then allowed to cool down to
                                                 64

   room temperature overnight. The flask was kept in an ice-water bath for 3 hours, filtered
   and the solids were washed three times with cold 2-propanol (3 x 400 milliliters). The
   obtained solid was dried under high vacuum at ambient temperature to give the final
   product as a white solid (371 grams having an HPLC purity of 95.2%, and a yield of
 5 60%). The epoxy value of the final product was 0.367 equivalents per 100 grams. The
   resulting diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol) was tested using
   suitable genotoxicity assays (e.g., Ames II assay) and was found to be non-genotoxic.
   Run II: Diglycidyl ether of 4,4'Butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol))
   [0216] A 20-gram batch of the diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5
10 methylphenol) was prepared by reacting epichlorohydrin with 4,4'-butylidenebis(2-t
   butyl-5-methylphenol). Multiple purification steps were required to obtain a suitably
   pure batch. The purified batch exhibited an epoxy value of 0.402 equivalents per 100
   grams. The resulting diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-butylidenebis(2-t-butyl-5-methylphenol)
   was tested using suitable genotoxicity assays (e.g., Ames II assay) and was found to be
15 non-genotoxic.
   Run III: Diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol)
   [0217] 4,4'-Methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol) (32 grams, 0.125 moles), epichlorohydrin
   (140 milliliters, 1.79 moles), and 2-propanol (150 milliliters) were heated to 80'C in an
   oil bath. Sodium hydroxide (12.5 grams, 0.313 moles) in water (20 milliliters) was
20 added in portions over 5 minutes. The purple solution was heated for 2 hours at 80'C.
   The mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered, and concentrated on a rotary
   evaporator at a temperature of about 30-40'C. The remaining oil was mixed with
   dichloromethane (50 milliliters) and heptane (100 milliliters) and allowed to stir for 30
   minutes at ambient temperature. The salts were removed by filtration and the filtrate was
25 concentrated on a rotary evaporator at 30-40'C. The remaining oil was dried under high
   vacuum at ambient temperature until a constant weight was obtained. The crude product
   was crystallized twice from methanol (250 milliliters) and dried under high vacuum at
   ambient temperature until a constant weight was obtained. The experiment generated
   diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-dimethylphenol) (28 grams, 60% yield) as a
30 white solid. The epoxy value was 0.543 equivalents per 100 grams.
   [0218] The diphenols used to make the diglycidyl ethers of each of Runs I-III were
   assayed for estrogenic activity by an outside toxicology laboratory using a suitable assay
                                                65

   whose results are known to be directly correlatable to the MCF-7 assay based on
   common reference compounds.
                            Example 2: Dihydric Phenol Adducts
   Run I: Dihydric Phenol Adduct of 1 mole 4,8
 5 Bis(hydroxymethylltricyclo[5.2. 1.Oldecane with 2 moles of 3-hydroxy benzoic acid
   [0219] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a water
   cooled condenser on top of a Dean-Stark Trap, and a thermocouple connected to heating
   control device and a heating mantle was added 249.24 parts of tricyclodecane dimethanol
   or "TCDM" (from OXEA), 350.76 parts of 3-hydroxybenzoic acid (from Aldrich), and
10 0.6 parts of a polymerization catalyst. Stirring and heating was begun over 4 hours until
   the batch reached 230'C. The batch was heated at 230'C for 4 more hours, at which
   time about 43 parts of water was collected and the acid value was 2.0 mg KOH/gram. At
   that time, heating was discontinued until the batch reached 120'C, at which time the
   batch was discharged. The material was a solid at room temperature that could be
15 broken up.
   Run II: Dihydric Phenol Adduct of 1 mole 4,8
   Bis(hydroxymethylltricyclo[5.2. 1.Oldecane with 2 moles of 4-hydroxy phenylacetic acid
   [0220] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a water
   cooled condenser on top of a Dean-Stark Trap, and a thermocouple connected to heating
20 control device and a heating mantle was added 235.3 parts of TCDM (from OXEA),
   364.7 parts of 4-hydroxy phenyl acid (from Aceto), and 0.65 parts of polymerization
   catalyst. Stirring and heating was begun over 7 hours until the batch reached 230'C.
   The batch was heated at 230'C for 8 more hours, at which time a total of 40 parts of
   water were collected and the acid value was 1.8 milligrams KOH/gram. At that time,
25 heating was discontinued until the batch reached 120'C, at which time the batch was
   discharged. The material was a tacky semisolid at room temperature.
   Run III: Dihydric Phenol Adduct of 1 mole 1,4-Cyclohexanedimethanol (CHDM) with
   2 moles of 3-hydroxy benzoic acid
   [0221] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a water
30 cooled condenser on top of a Dean-Stark Trap, and a thermocouple connected to heating
   control device and a heating mantle was added 228.6 parts of the CHDM-90 product
   (90% cyclohexane dimethanol in water from Eastman), 394.2 parts of 3-hydroxybenzoic
                                                 66

   acid (from Aceto), and 0.6 parts polymerization catalyst. Stirring and heating was begun
   over 4 hours until the batch reached 230 0C. The batch was heated at 230 0 C for 8 more
   hours, at which time 70 parts of water were collected and the acid value was 1.6
   milligrams KOH/gram. At that time, heating was discontinued until the batch reached
 5  120 0 C, at which time the batch was discharged. The material was a solid at room
   temperature that could be broken up.
   Run IV: Dihydric Phenol Adduct of 1 mole 1,4-Cyclohexanedimethanol (CHDM) with
   2 moles of 4-hydroxy phenvlacetic acid
   [0222] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a water
10 cooled condenser on top of a Dean-Stark Trap, and a thermocouple connected to heating
   control device and a heating mantle was added 214.3 parts of the CHDM-90 product,
   407.1 parts of 4-hydroxy phenylacetic acid (from Aceto), and 0.6 parts polymerization
   catalyst. Stirring and heating was begun over 4 hours until the batch reached 230 0 C.
   The batch was heated at 230 0 C for 6 more hours, at which time 65 parts of water were
15 collected and the acid value was 3.0 milligrams KOH/gram. At this time, heating was
   discontinued until the batch reached 120 0 C, at which time the batch was discharged. The
   material was a solid at room temperature that could be broken up.
                                 Example 3: Polvether Polymers
   [0223] As indicated in the below Table 1, 15 different polyether polymers (i.e., Runs 1
20 to 15) were made by upgrading various diepoxides ("DGE" in Table 1) of Example 1
   with various diphenols of Example 2.
   [0224] The following general procedure was used to prepare each of the polyether
   polymers of Runs 1-10 in Table 1: To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a
   mechanical stirrer, a water-cooled condenser, and a thermocouple connected to heating
25 control device and a heating mantle was added the diepoxide of Example 1, Run I (i.e.,
   the diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol)) and a specified amount
   of a diphenol of Example 2, 0.1% parts CATALYST 1201 polymerization catalyst (from
   Shell), and an amount of methylisobutylketone (from Ashland) suitable to take the batch
   to 95 wt-% solids. Stirring and heating was begun until the batch became homogeneous
30 and reached the temperature indicated Table 1. The batch was held at that temperature
   until the target epoxy value ("EV") was reached. At that time, heating was discontinued
   and cyclohexanone (from Ashland) was slowly added until the weight percent solids (or
                                                67

   weight percent nonvolatile material) indicated in Table 1 was achieved. The batch was
   discharged when the temperature was below 70'C. As indicated in the below Table 1, all
   of polymers Runs 1-10 exhibited good molecular weight build and a high Tg.
   [0225] The aforementioned methodology can also be used to formulate polyether
 5 polymers using the diepoxides of Example 1, Runs II, III, and IV.
                                              Table 1
   Run   Ex. 1      Weight   Diphenol   Weight  Reaction  Target  Act.   NV** Mn    Mw      Tg
         DGE        Parts               Parts    Temp      EV      EV                       (0C)
                                                   (0C)
   1     Run I      45.3     Ex. 2,     29.7        120   0.036   0.036  45.6 4280   10780  91
                             Run I
   2     Run I      44.3     Ex. 2,     30.7        120   0.036   0.034  41.7 4240   15680  82
                             Run II
   3     Run I      47.4     Ex. 2,     27.6        120   0.036   0.032  40.4 5200   15330  94
                             Run III
   4     Run I      46.2     Ex. 2,     28.8        120   0.036   0.034  43.3 5560   17800  82
                             Run IV
   5     Run I      46       Ex. 2,     29          120    0.02   0.18   30.9 7380  29540   99
                             Run III
   6     Run I      45.2     Ex. 2,     29.8        120    0.01   0.007  31.2 5870  28620   97
                             Run III
   7     Run I      145.4    Ex. 2,     94.6        120   0.032   0.032  42.8 5230   14970  80
                             Run IV
   8     Run I      142.3    Ex. 2,     97.7        120   0.021   0.021  41.9 6460  26900   82
                             Run IV
   9     Run I      203      HQ*        36.96       160   0.032   0.032  40.8 4700   10650  100
   10    Run I      201.8    HQ*        38.2        160   0.021   0.019  40.4 6100   14280  105
   11    Run II     339.2    HQ*        60.8        160   0.028   0.029  40.8 5700   13280  98
   12    Run II     244.5    Ex. 2,     155.5       130   0.028   0.027  41.0 3800  8320    82
                             Run IV
   13    Run II     250.8    Ex. 2,     149.2       130   0.028   0.028  40.8 6130   17570  91
                             Run III
   14    Run III    63.2     HQ         16.8        160   0.035   0.033  39.3 5400   12900  95
   15    Run III    41.9     Ex. 2,     38.1        130   0.029   0.023  42.2 7600  48900   90
                             Run III
     HQ stands for hydroquinone.
   **NV stands for wt-% non-volatile material.
10                            Example 4: Coating Compositions
   [0226] The polyether polymer composition of Example 3, Run 2 and Example 3, Run 4
   were each cut to a non-volatile content of 35 wt-% using cyclohexanone. Then 20 wt-%
   (solids on solids) of phenolic crosslinker was added, followed by 0.1 wt-% H3PO4 (solids
   on solids) added as a 10% solution in butanol. Thus, were provided two acid-catalyzed
15 80:20 polyether:phenolic formulations. The coating composition formulated using
   Example 3, Run 2 is referred to herein as Example 4, Run 1, whereas the coating
                                                68

   composition formulated using Example 3, Run 4 is referred to herein as Example 4,
   Run 2.
                                 Example 5: Coated Substrate
   [0227] The two coating compositions above, along with an industry standard BPA-based
 5 polyether coating composition, were each applied to both 75# tinplate (ETP) and tin-free
   steel (TFS). The coatings were drawn down with the appropriate-sized wire bars to
   obtain coatings having a dry-film thickness of 4.5-5.0 milligrams/square-inch (msi). The
   coated metal samples were then baked for 12 minutes in a 403'F (-206'C) gas-fired
   oven. 202 sanitary food can ends were formed from the resulting coated plates. Each
10 can end was given a 14-inch-pound reverse impact in the center of the uncoated side of
   the can end. The can ends were then immersed in two different aggressive food products
   (i.e., Aggressive Food Products 1 and 2 in Table 2) having an initial temperature of
    180'F (82'C) and stored for 2 weeks at 120'F (-49'C). After 2 weeks, the can ends
   were removed from the food product, rinsed with water, and evaluated for adhesion,
15 corrosion, stain, and blush. The results are shown in Table 2 below. The coating
   compositions of Example 4 exhibited coating properties equal to or better than that of the
   industry standard epoxy coating.
                                             Table 2
   Coating Composition            Commercial Control         Example 4,       Example 4,
                                                                Run 1            Run 2
   ETP
   Aggressive Food Product    1
       Adhesion / Blush                    10/10                 10/10            10/10
       Stain / Corrosion                   10/10                 10/10            10/10
   Aggressive Food Product    2
       Adhesion / Blush                    10/10                 10/10            10/10
       Stain / Corrosion                   10/10                 10/10            10/10
   TFS
   Aggressive Food Product    1
       Adhesion / Blush                    10/10                 10/10            10/10
       Stain / Corrosion                   10/10                 10/10            10/10
   Aggressive Food Product    2
       Adhesion /Blush                     10/10                 10/10            10/10
       Stain / Corrosion                    10/9                 10/10            10/10
                                                 69

                      Example 6: Water-Dispersible Polyether Polymers
   Run 1:
   [0228] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a nitrogen
   inlet to maintain a nitrogen blanket, a water-cooled condenser, and a thermocouple
 5 connected to heating control device and a heating mantle was added 65.34 parts of the
   diepoxide of Example 1, Run III (i.e., the diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6
   dimethylphenol), 17.61 parts of hydroquinone, 0.054 parts CATALYST 1201 catalyst
   (from Shell), 0.305 parts sorbic acid, and 1.96 parts ethyl carbitol. This mixture was
   heated with stirring to 125'C, allowed to exotherm to 152'C, then heated at 155'C for 4
10 hours until the epoxy value was 0.025 eq/100 g. A water-dispersible polymer was then
   produced using a mixture of styrene, ethyl acrylate, methylmethacrylate, acrylic acid,
   and methacrylic acid in combination with a linking compound pursuant to the teachings
   of U.S. Pat. No. 5,830,952, with the above polyether polymer used in place of the
   polyether polymer taught in U.S. Pat. No. 5,830,952. The water-dispersible polymer
15 yielded a water-based dispersion having a nonvolatile content of about 40% and an acid
   value of 15-45 mg KOH/gram.
   [0229] The resin was formulated into an aqueous finish in the same fashion as a
   commercial epoxy polymer based on BPA and BADGE and baked on chrome-treated
   aluminum substrate for 60 seconds at 465'F (241'C) to a dry film thickness of 7 msi.
20 The properties of the cured coating including the Example 6, Run 1 resin were similar to
   that of the commercial epoxy control coating. Table 4 below illustrates some of the
   coating properties of the Example 6, Run 1 coating relative to the control coating.
                                                70

                                              Table 3
                            Metal Exposure          DI Water Retort
                               (milliamps)                                  MEK        Pencil
   Coating                  Before      After       Blush       Adh.       Double    Hardness
                           Boiling     Boiling     (W/V)*      (W/V)*       Rubs
                           Dowfax      Dowfax
   BADGE/BPA                  0.2         0.9       10/10       10/10       20-50        4H
   Control
   Example 6, Run 1           0.1         3.1       10/10       10/10       20-50        3H
     Strips of coated aluminum were placed in a pressure cooker filled with deionized water
   and processed for 90 minutes at 250'F (12 1C). Afterward, the coated strips were rated
   for blush and adhesion both in the area where the coated strip was immersed in the liquid
   ("W") and where the area of the strip was in the vapor phase ('"V).
   Run 2:
   [0230] To a 4-neck round-bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a nitrogen
 5 inlet to maintain a nitrogen blanket, a water-cooled condenser, and a thermocouple
   connected to heating control device and a heating mantle was added 59.96 parts of the
   diepoxide of Example 1, Run 11 (i.e., the diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-butylidenebis(2-t-butyl
   5-methylphenol)), 0.08 parts CATALYST 1201 catalyst, and 2.22 parts xylene. This
   mixture was stirred and heated to 130'C and held for 3 hours, at which time the epoxy
10 value was 0.034 equivalents per 100 grams. 25.05 parts of butyl cellosolve were added,
   followed by 10.53 parts primary amyl alcohol and 14.47 parts n-butanol while the
   temperature was stabilized at 120'C. A premixture of methacrylic acid, styrene, and
   benzoyl peroxide was then added while maintaining the temperature. At the end of the
   addition, the addition device was flushed with butyl cellosolve. After holding at
15 temperature for 2 hours after the end of the feed, deionized water was added and the
   temperature was stabilized at 90'C. A room-temperature premix of deionized water and
   dimethylethanol amine was added over time and the batch was held, followed by
   subsequent additions of deionized water. The resulting water-based dispersion had a
   nonvolatile content of about 20% and an acid value of 80-120 mg KOH/gram.
20 [0231] A finish was made by mixing the water-based resin of Example 6, Run 2 with a
   solution consisting of suitable amounts of phenol-based phenolic resin, t-butyl-phenol
   based phenolic resin, and organic solvent. This was followed by an additional let-down
   of organic solvent and deionized water to yield a spray coating having a # 4 Ford cup
                                                71

   viscosity of 20 seconds and a nonvolatile content of about 20%. This water-based finish
   was sprayed on drawn and ironed ETP food cans and baked for 3.5 minutes at 425'F
   (218'C), yielding a cured coating having a dry film weight of 275 milligrams per can.
   When tested against a similar BADGE/BPA-based control coating, the coating properties
 5 of the coating formulated using the Example 6, Run 2 resin were similar, including
   corrosion resistance.
      Example 7- Preparation of solid resin from advancement of diglycidyl ether with
                                          hydroquinone
   [0232] A reaction flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, thermocouple, nitrogen inlet
10 and vacuum outlet was charged with 900.0 parts of the diglycidyl ether described in
   Example 1, Run II, having a titrated epoxy value of 0.376 (epoxide equivalent
   weight=266) (3.383 equivalents). The contents were gently heated under nitrogen
   blanket until completely melted, then agitation was started and 0.80 parts of
   ethyltriphenylphosphonium iodide catalyst were added, followed by 124.0 parts of
15 hydroquinone (2.252 equivalents). Heating was continued under a reduced pressure of
   approximately 50 torr (to reduce the level of residual moisture or other volatiles) to a
   temperature of 130'C, then heating was continued under atmospheric pressure. When
   the temperature reached 140'C, external heating was discontinued and the reaction was
   allowed to exotherm. Over a period of approximately 25 minutes, the reaction
20 temperature increased to a peak exotherm temperature of 181 C. The contents were held
   for an additional 90 minutes at 180'C, then discharged to shallow aluminum pans and
   allowed to cool to form a friable solid. The product gave a titrated epoxide equivalent
   weight of 952 (theoretical target= 907), and a melt viscosity of 19.3 P (150'C, 900 RPM,
   Brookfield CAP 2000).
25   Example 8- Preparation of the bis(3-hydroxybenzoate) of Cyclohexanedimethanol
   [0233] A reaction flask equipped with mechanical stirrer, thermocouple, nitrogen inlet,
   and a Dean-Stark trap under a reflux condenser was charged with 259.6 parts of
    1,4-cyclohexanedimethanol (CHDM, 1.8 mol). Agitation was started under a nitrogen
   blanket, and 497.2 parts of 3-hydroxybenzoic acid (3.6 mol), 3.4 parts of
30 p-toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate (0.018 mol), and 200 parts of xylene were
   successively added. The contents were heated gradually to reflux and the water of
   esterification was collected as a lower layer in the Dean-Stark trap. After approximately
                                                72

    12 hours at 145-150'C, approximately 94% of the theoretical quantity of water had been
   collected, and additional collection of water in the trap had ceased. The bulk of the
   xylene was removed at ambient pressure, and then vacuum was gradually applied while
   holding the product at 150'C. When only minimal evolution of volatiles was observed at
 5 approximately 50 torr, the product was discharged into a shallow aluminum pan and
   allowed to cool to ambient temperature.
    Example 9- Preparation of Solid Resin from Advancement of Diglycidyl Ether with
                              the bis(3-hydroxybenzoate) of CHDM
   [0234] A reaction flask equipped with mechanical stirrer, thermocouple, nitrogen inlet,
10 and vacuum outlet was charged with 750.0 parts of the diglycidyl ether described in
   Example 1, Run II having a titrated epoxy value of 0.376 (epoxide equivalent
   weight=266) (2.819 epoxide equivalents), followed by 315.0 parts of the bis(3
   hydroxybenzoate) of CHDM which was prepared according to the procedure of Example
   8 (calculated theoretical phenolic equivalent weight of 192.2) (1.639 equivalents), and
15  1.30 parts of ethyltriphenylphosphonium iodide catalyst. The contents were gradually
   heated until fully melted at about 90'C, then agitation was started and the pressure was
   reduced to approximately 50 torr in order to remove residual volatiles. Heating was
   continued to a temperature of 140'C, at which point external heating was discontinued.
   The reaction was allowed to exotherm, and the vacuum was broken once the temperature
20 reached 145'C. The exotherm continued over the course of approximately 30 minutes to
   a peak temperature of 158'C. The temperature set-point was increased to 160'C and the
   product was held for an additional 2 hours before discharge. The final product gave a
   titrated epoxide equivalent weight of 1016 (theoretical target 903) and a melt viscosity of
   39.0 P (150-C, 900 RPM, Brookfield CAP 2000).
25                     Examples 10-12- Preparation of Powder Coatings
   [0235] The solid resins from Examples 7 and 9 were broken into smaller flake size using
   a high-intensity paddle mixer (Reos Incorporated, Cleveland, Ohio) for two cycles of 10
   seconds each at approximately 1,000 revolutions-per-minute ("RPM"). The resins were
   then combined with the additional ingredients listed in Table 4. The composition shown
30 in Example 10 is a comparative example based upon a conventional commercially
   available BPA-based epoxy resin. All quantities in Table 4 are expressed in parts by
   weight.
                                                73

                                              Table 4
   Ingredient              Comparative             Example 11            Example 12
                           Example 10
   Epon 2004               900.0
   Epoxy Upgrade                                   900.0
   from Example 7
   Epoxy Upgrade                                                         900.0
   from Example 9
    DYHARD 100S            27.0                    27.0                  27.0
   2-methylimidazole       2.0                     2.0                   2.0
   ESCAT 60                10.0                    10.0                   10.0
   RESIFLOW PF-67          13.0                    13.0                   13.0
   R2899 Red Iron          42.0                    42.0                  42.0
   Oxide
   VANSIL W-20             325.0                   325.0                 325.0
   [0236] Further explanation of certain ingredients included in Table 4 is provided below.
   EPON 2004 is a conventional BPA-based epoxy resin available from Hexion, Columbus,
 5 OH. Dyhard 100S is a micronized grade of dicyandiamide treated with silica dry flow
   agent, available from Alzchem, Trostberg, Germany. Dyhard MI is a micronized form of
   2-methylimidazole available from Alzchem. Resiflow PF-67 is a polyacrylate flow
   control agent available from Estron Chemical, Calvert City, KY. Escat 60 is an alkyl
   imidazole on a silica carrier, available from Estron chemical, Calvert City, KY. R2899
10 Red Iron Oxide was obtained from Rockwood Pigments, Beltsville, MD. Vansil W-20 is
   a wollastonite pigment available from R.T. Vanderbilt Company, Norwalk, CT.
   [0237] The ingredients in Table 4 were dry blended in a Reos high-intensity paddle
   mixer for two cycles of ten seconds each at approximately 1000 RPM. After dry
   blending, the samples were extruded in a Coperion ZSK-30 extruder operating at
15 approximately 200 RPM with temperature set points of 90'C in zone 1 and 1 10 C in
   zone 2. The extrudate was discharged through chilled rollers, and the resulting solid
   flake was ground in a Mikropul Bantam laboratory mill and then sieved through a 94
   mesh screen.
                                                74

   [0238] Samples of the finished powder coatings were electrostatic sprayed at
   approximately 70 kilovolts onto 0.5 mm thick cold rolled steel panels and baked for 30
   minutes at 220'C. Film properties were as shown in Table 5. The test method for
   impact resistance can be found in ASTM D2794.
                                          Table 5
   Test                     Comparative            Example 11             Example 12
                            Example 10
   Adhesion                 9                      9                      10
   Pencil Hardness          3H                     3H                     3H
   Impact Resistance        80 inch-pounds         80 inch-pounds         80 inch-pounds
   (direct)
   Solvent Resistance       50                     20                     50
   (MEK Double
   Rubs)
 5
                           Example 13: Powder Coating Composition
   [0239] The powder compositions as described in Examples 10-12 are repeated except the
   dicyandiamide is increased to 36 parts and the accelerators are replaced with triphenyl
   phosphine.
10                         Example 14: Powder Coating Composition
   [0240] The powder compositions as described in Examples 10-12 are repeated except the
   dicyandiamide is increased to 36 parts and the accelerators are replaced with Curezol
   C17Z accelerator (available from Air Products, Allentown, PA).
   [0241] The complete disclosure of all patents, patent applications, and publications, and
15 electronically available material cited herein are incorporated by reference. The
   foregoing detailed description and examples have been given for clarity of understanding
   only. No unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. The invention is not
   limited to the exact details shown and described, for variations obvious to one skilled in
   the art will be included within the invention defined by the claims. The invention
20 illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced, in some embodiments, in the
   absence of any element which is not specifically disclosed herein.
                                                75

                                                      CLAIMS
        1. An article comprising:
            a food or beverage can, or a portion thereof, having a metal substrate and a coating
  5 composition applied on at least a portion of the metal substrate, wherein the coating composition
    is applied as a food-contact coating on an interior surface, and wherein the coating composition
    comprises (i) a polyether polymer that is substantially free of bisphenol A, bisphenol F,
    bisphenol S, and epoxides thereof and (ii) an acrylic component; and
            wherein the polymer is formed by reacting ingredients including: (i) an extender and (ii) a
 .0 diepoxide compound that includes a segment of the below Formula (I):
                                                                                      Formula (I)
                                (R1)v               L(R                )v _   t
            wherein:
                    each of the oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I) is present in an ether linkage;
                    each R' is independently an atom or group having an atomic weight of at least 15
                               Daltons;
  5                 v is independently 2 to 4;
                    w is 4;
                    R 2 , if present, is a divalent group;
                    each phenylene group depicted in Formula (I) includes R's attached to the ring at
                               both ortho positions relative to the depicted oxygen atom;
20                  n is 0 or 1, with the proviso that if n is 0, the phenylene groups depicted in
                               Formula (I) can optionally join to form a fused ring system in which case
                               w is 3 and each v is independently 1 to 3;
                    t isO or 1; and
                    two or more R' and/or R 2 groups can join to form one or more cyclic groups.
                                                         76

    2. The article of claim 1 wherein each R' is independently selected from an organic group
        or a sulfur-containing group and is free of halogen atoms.
  5
    3.  The article of claim 2, wherein each R' attached to the rings of the depicted phenylene
        groups at an ortho position is an organic group containing one or two carbon atoms.
    4. The article of claim 1, wherein n is 1.
 .0
    5. The article of claim 4, wherein R 2 is an organic group having either 1 carbon atom or 8 or
        more carbon atoms.
    6. The article of claim 4, wherein R 2 is a segment of the structure -C(R 7)(R 8)-, wherein R 7
 .5     and R 8 are each independently a hydrogen atom, a halogen atom, an organic group, a
        sulfur-containing group, or a nitrogen-containing group, and wherein R7 and R8 can
        optionally join to form a cyclic group, with the proviso that R7 and R8 are not both -CH 3 .
    7. The article of claim 6, wherein R7 and R 8 are each a hydrogen atom.
 '0
    8. The article of claim 1, wherein the polyether polymer includes at least 25% by weight of
        phenylene groups.
    9. The article of claim 1, wherein the segment of Formula (I) has an atomic weight of less
25      than 600 Daltons, and wherein the segments of Formula (I) constitute at least 30% by
        weight of the polyether polymer.
    10. The article of claim 1, wherein the polyether polymer is substantially free of bound
        polyhydric phenols having estrogenic activity greater than or equal to that of bisphenol S,
30      and epoxides thereof, and wherein the coating composition is substantially free of
        bisphenol A and the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A.
                                                  77

    11. The article of claim 1, wherein the polyether polymer is substantially free of bound
        polyhydric phenols, and epoxides thereof, having estrogenic activity greater than that of
        2,2-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)propanoic acid, and wherein the coating composition is
  5     substantially free of any such bound or mobile compounds.
    12. The article of claim 1, wherein the diepoxide compound is non-genotoxic and is derived
        from a dihydric phenol that exhibits a log Relative Proliferative Effect value in the MCF
        7 cell proliferation assay of less than -3.
 .0
    13. The article of claim 1, wherein the diepoxide compound is selected from the diglycidyl
        ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol), the diglycidyl ether of 2,2'
        methylenebis(4-methyl-6-t-butylphenol), the diglycidyl ether of 4,4'-methylenebis(2,6
        dimethylphenol or a mixture thereof.
 .5
    14. The article of claim 1, wherein the extender comprises a dihydric phenol.
    15. The article of claim 14, wherein the dihydric phenol comprises catechol, hydroquinone,
        or resorcinol.
  0 16. The article of claim 1, wherein the polymer includes -CH 2 -CH(OH)-CH 2- or -CH 2-CH 2
        CH(OH)- segments, wherein the polymer has a glass transition temperature of at least
        60 0 C.
    17. The article of claim 1, wherein the coating composition comprises, by weight total resin
25      solids, at least 30 % by weight of the polyether polymer.
    18. The article of claim 1, wherein a polyether-acrylic copolymer includes the polyether
        polymer and the acrylic component, and wherein the coating composition comprises, by
        weight total resin solids, at least 50 % by weight of the polyether-acrylic copolymer, and
30      wherein the polyether polymer is free of halogen atoms.
                                                    78

        19. The article of claim 1, wherein the food or beverage can or a portion thereof comprises a
             two-piece aluminum beer or beverage can, and wherein the coating composition is an
  5          inside spray coating composition.
        20. An article comprising:
             a food or beverage can, or a portion thereof, having a metal substrate and a cured coating
    present on at least a portion of an interior surface of the food or beverage can, wherein the
 .0 coating has an overall average dry coating thickness from about 1 to about 60 microns and
    comprises a layer derived from a liquid coating composition that includes a polyether polymer
    that is substantially free of bisphenol A, bisphenol F, bisphenol S, and epoxides thereof and has a
    number average molecular weight of at least 2,000 prior to cure; and
             wherein the polyether polymer is formed by reacting ingredients including: (i) an
 .5 extender comprising a dihydric phenol and (ii) a diepoxide compound that includes a segment of
    the below Formula (I):
                                       (H~-v(R2).                      (H),.y
                                                                                       Formula (I)
                                 (R1)V                _               (R ), _  t
             wherein:
                     each of the oxygen atoms depicted in Formula (I) is present in an ether linkage;
                     each R' is independently an atom or group having an atomic weight of at least 15
20                              Daltons;
                     v is independently 2 to 4;
                     w is 4;
                     R 2 , if present, is a divalent group;
                     each phenylene group depicted in Formula (I) includes R's attached to the ring at
25                              both ortho positions relative to the depicted oxygen atom;
                                                          79

               n is 0 or 1, with the proviso that if n is 0, the phenylene groups depicted in
                       Formula (I) can optionally join to form a fused ring system in which case
                       w is 3 and each v is independently 1 to 3;
               t isO or 1; and
 5             two or more R' and/or R 2 groups can join to form one or more cyclic groups.
   21. The article of claim 20, wherein the dihydric phenol compound comprises hydroquinone,
       catechol, p-tert-butyl catechol, resorcinol, substituted variants thereof, or a mixture
       thereof.
.0
   22. The article of claim 20, wherein n is 1, t is 1 and R 2 is an organic group containing one
       carbon atom.
   23. The article of claim 1, wherein a polyether-acrylic copolymer includes both the polyether
.5     polymer and the acrylic component.
   24. The article of claim 20, wherein a polyether-acrylic copolymer includes both the
       polyether polymer and an acrylic component, and wherein the coating composition is a
       water-based coating composition.
.0
                                                  80

