Examiner prepared Abstract
A biological monitoring or imaging apparatus incorporating means for minimizing environmental or
external system noise within a biological signal or image of interest, the apparatus comprising: an
input sensing and/or input monitoring or imaging means for cancelling of the noise signal within the
biological signal; means for adjusting the noise characteristics of one or more channels of sensed,
monitored or imaged noise for producing an optimal noise cancellation signal; and means for
combining the noise cancellation signal with one or more biological signal(s) of interest so that the
resulting signal outcome comprises of the biological signal or image of interest with the noise signal
diminished or eliminated.

   Page 1
          ANAESTHESIA AND CONSCIOUSNESS DEPTH MONITORING SYSTEM
   FIELD OF INVENTION
            The present invention relates to the field of evoked electrophysiological potential signal
 5 monitoring and in particular can be applied as a means to determine the sentient state of an
   individual, and as a means to authenticate        the physiological, electrical  or electromagnetic
   source of a signal.
   BACK GROUND OF INVENTION
10                  The process of monitoring the sentient state of a subject is an essential pre
   requisite to reliable   tracking   of many physiological parameters       or the effective clinical
   deployment of many monitoring systems.
            Additionally, and in the context of general monitoring of physiological signals, the
   requirements    to distinguish the source of a signal can be a critical step.       In particular, a
15  physiological monitoring system output measure typically relies upon the assumption that the
   output measure is predominantly based on a known source of interest. In the case of cerebral
   monitoring during anaesthesia, for example, output measurement indices relied upon as a basis
   for the determination of anaesthesia-depth can incorporate authentic neural signals of interest
   emanating from the central nervous system (CNS), electromyography signals emanating from
20 muscle activity and generated by the peripheral control system (PCS), or artifact generated as a
   results of factors such as arousals, body movements, electrical noise or electromagnetic noise.
            In the case of monitoring sentient state the determination of an individual's response to
   external stimulus can be representative of a unique aspect of consciousness state. In particular
   an individual's coherence with the environment or vigilance to external prompts, or in this
25 particular case the response to an external stimulus provides important information regarding
   an    individual's    state    of   alertness   from    a   safety   or   operational    proficiency
   perspective. Furthermore,     in the context of anaesthesia-depth, sedation or testing procedures
   such as hearing function determination, the sentient state of an individual can be crucial in
   terms of accurate interpretation of dosage guidance or hearing function.
30

   Page 2
   DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO BODY AND CLAIMS SECTION OF PATENT
   DOCUMENT
            Sentinel, sedation, anaesthesia and/or pain (SSAP): refers to patient states comprising
   those of consciousness, alertness, attention, awake, responsiveness, sleep-state; vigilance;
 5 awareness; calmness; agitation; anxiolysis; fatigue; brain function; physiological status;
   cognition; psychological; psychological and/or sentient states.
   SSAP monitoring: refers to a monitoring system capable ofmonitoring one or more of the
   above listed SSAP states.
10 MAIN CLAIM PRINCIPLES
   AEP latency-intervalanalysis:
           AEP latency-interval analysis demonstrated substantial congruence between clinical
   signs of anaesthesia-depth and AEP latency-interval parameters.         In particular, the value of
   early (0-15 ms) and broad-band (0-140 ms) latency anaesthesia monitoring candidates were
15  established.   AEP latency-interval analysis demonstrated substantial congruence between
   clinical signs of anaesthesia-depth and AEP latency-interval parameters.           In particular, the
   value of early (0-15 ms) and broad-band (0-140 ms) latency anaesthesia monitoring candidates
   were established.
           The early latency region (0 to 15 ms), may be markers of muscle-suppression, and a
20 useful tool for anaesthesia monitoring. In particular, the PAMR signals may provide accurate
   discrimination    between    neurogenic    (CNS)    and    ePAMR    (peripheral)    signals.   While
   conventional     anaesthesia   monitoring    mainly    relies on the     forehead     monitoring    of
   electromyography (EMG) originating from facial muscles, the close proximity of these signals
   to EEG signals can lead to the inadvertent combining of these distinctively different signal
25  groups. However, while the coupling between early latency ePAMR and EEG signals can lead
   to mistaken hypnosis guidance, independent component or latency-interval analysis of the
   ePAMR signals could enable a unique and potentially valuable anaesthesia muscle-suppression
   tracking method.
   Subtraction oflong and short evoked signal discrimination techniques:

    Page 3
             It was established that subtraction of long and short (256, 512 and 1024 sweep) moving
    time averages (MTA) can improve the discrimination between neural signals of interest versus
    unwanted artifact.
   ABR spectralclick detection and evokedpotential signalvalidation techniques:
 5           It was established that FFT processed        auditory brainstem responses      (ABRs) were
    capable oftracking stimulus connection and troublesome spectral disturbances such mains and
    electrosurgical interference.
   AEP initialisationassurance and compensation:
             The need for enabling an automatic         means to ensure appropriate       AEP averaging
10  initialisation (start-up baseline) time before relying on AEP-average measures was established.
    In particular, the 256-sweep AEP MTA examined in this study required 38 s before the first
    complete AEP value could be computed. The MTA initialisation time constraints coupled with
    the high degree of artifact at the start of monitoring,        and the fast unconsciousness onset
    resulting   from the typical    start of anaesthesia bolus injection, demonstrated the need to
15  consider faster AEP averaging methods for future studies.
    Combination ofnon-linear dynamic and conventionalevokedpotentialpredictors of
    anaesthesia consciousness-state:
             The deployment       of optimal  combinations     of classical   evoked potential  analysis
    methods     (such as but not limited to differential/first derivative       analysis) and non-linear
20  dynamic analysis methods as a means to predict SPA&CD.
   Processed arx MTA, non-linear dynamic evoked potentialpredictorsofanaesthesia
    consciousness-state:
             The deployment of optimal combinations of faster (2.2. online delay versus 38 s with
    256-sweep) moving time averages incorporating autogression modelling with an external input
25  function    (arx), classical  evoked potential   analysis   methods    (such as but not limited to
    differential/first derivative analysis) and non-linear dynamic analysis methods as a means to
    predict SPA&CD.
   Any combination ofprocessedarx MTA, slow MTA, non-linear dynamic evokedpotential
   predictors ofonline anaesthesia-specificevents:

   Page 4
            The deployment of optimal combinations of fast arx and slower MTA, classical evoked
   potential analysis methods (such as but not limited to differential/first derivative analysis) and
   non-linear dynamic analysis methods as a means to online events relevant to SPA&CD
   monitoring     such as consciousness       transitions and noxious     stimuli events, and greater
 5 discrimination     between    signal   disturbances     and  physiological   signals    of relevance.
   Additionally, the optional detection of quick events ranging between 0.5 and 3 seconds for the
   detection of body movements, arousals and other physiological signal disturbances combined
   with cluster analysis as a means to predict anaesthesia reversal.
   A & CD FunctionalMeasurement Requirements:
10           Functional measurement requirements included the need to track electrode impedance
   and signal quality status; the need to monitor anaesthesia-specific             events and episodes
   (outlined below); and the need to track specific and interrelated anaesthesia-effects.          Specific
   anaesthetic-effects were defined as hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, and anxiolysis,
   while interrelated effects were defined as episodes of awareness accompanied with anaesthetic
15 induced muscle-suppression or elevated anxiolysis.
   Anaesthesia-specific Events andEpisodes:
            Important anaesthesia-specific      online events were identified including arousals (Ar:
   overall), cortical arousals (cAr), microarousals (Arm), body movements (BM), and movement
   time (MT).      Anaesthesia-specific    events established as potentially valuable online A&CD
20  markers included noxious stimuli events (Nx), quick (0.25 to 3 s duration) body movements
   (BMq), and quick arousals (Arq). Noxious stimuli were further classified according to body
   movement (NxBM), cortical (NxC), and subcortical (NxS) types, while quick arousals were
   further classified according to quick cortical (cArq) and quick subcortical (sArq) types.
   Additionally, a series of online anaesthesia-specific indices were established as a means to
25  enable the anaesthesiologist to track the severity and rate of important events such as
   movements, arousals and particularly noxious stimuli, applicable to anaesthesia-reversal and
   implicated with intraoperative awareness.
            Artifact processing requirements were established and included the detection and
   cancellation    of EOG      signals,   eye-movements,       50/60  cycle   or   related   interference,
30  electrosurgical disturbances, EMG signal bursts or EMG modulation of EEG signals, in order
   to     avoid    excessive    filtering    or     rejection   of   neural    correlates    of     interest.

   Page 5
            Episodes of intraoperative awareness accompanied by elevated anxiolysis             or muscle
   paralysis;  the onset or occurrence     of near or iso-electric cortical     silence; near or burst
   suppression periods; wake disturbance       periods, and elevated gamma power as a marker of
   consciousness state were established as relevant changes which should be tracked during
 5 anaesthesia monitoring.     The requirements     and design principles were developed to capture
   integrated vital    sign measures   representative of anaesthesia-induced       interactions between
   peripheral,   central  and anxiolysis physiological parameters.         An   example    of how this
   information is conveyed to the anesthetists in tejms of useful anaesthetics balance measures
   (CNS activity corresponding to consciousness-depth changes versus peripheral activity changes
10 representative ofpatient mobility risk) is shown in figure 6 and figure 7.
   ePAMR Discriminatorso/Muscle Suppression:
            Improved decoupling of EEG and EMG measurement techniques using                  independent
   EMG      (masseter   and/or PAMR)     signals, were   established.    PAMR and masseter         signal
   measures were introduced as potentially valuable markers of anaesthetic muscle suppression.
15 In particular, evoked early latency signals across the PAMR region were found to be
   substantial anaesthesia    consciousness state discriminators, with the potential         to delineate
   between EEG and EMG signals. Improved decoupling between EEG and EMG signals could
   lead to more precise prediction of consciousness states and potentially help detect the onset or
   incidence of intraoperative awareness.         Consequently, the detection      of PAMR changes
20  corresponding to stimulus amplitude changes can be representative of anaesthetic              muscle
   suppression.
   Linkages Between Anxiolysis andlntraoperativeRecall-risk:
            Elevated anxiolysis marked by vascular constriction, racing heart, and increased blood
   pressure.    Based on these factors the link between       elevated anxiolysis    and intraoperative
25  awareness recall was established.   Consequently, the requirement for vital sign monitoring as
   an integral function ofA&CD monitoring was established.
   AEP Noise CouplingEffects and Countermeasures:
            There is a coupling-effect between AEP and background artifact signals resulted in
   increased consciousness-state values and a typical AEP anaesthesia-depth indicator switch-like
30 transition corresponding to consciousness transitions.    In particular, severe signal disturbances

   Page 6
   were found to occur during critical phases of anaesthesia, including fast consciousness
   transitions and deep anaesthesia electrosurgical periods.
            Bispectral data smoothing characteristics conceal potentially valuable anaesthesia
   specific indicators such as noxious stimuli events and possibly mask important events
   leading to
 5 anaesthesia-reversal.   In contrast, AEP values were found to demonstrate sensitive detection of
   anaesthesia-specific body movements and noxious stimuli events.         AEP non-linear dynamical
   analysis techniques (AEP entropy) were also shown to be potentially useful discriminators of
   different arousal, artifact and movement events.         The invention uses non-linear dynamic
   techniques to delineate between the underlying non-linear neurological signals implicated deep
10 hypnosis and the more complex and less deterministic nature ofwake periods signals. Subject
   to more extensive and larger scale studies the further refinement of the first generation entropy
   AEP algorithms could be promising A&CD measurement candidates, particularly as it relates
   to describing peripheral     and neural anaesthesia-specific    events, and decoupling between
   unwanted signal disturbances, physiological artefact, and neural signals.    In order to enhance
15 the discrimination between AEP neurogenic markers of A&CD versus residual noise, multiple
   MTA (15-sweep; 256; 512; 1025)          subtraction techniques, based on the known relationship
   between SNR and the number (n) of AEP-average sweeps (SNR a Jnsweeps) are preferably
   used.
   Hybrid A&CD MultivariateInputs:
20          Anaesthesia   indicators based on optimal combinations of slower trending EEG
   parameters, coupled with fast (2.2 s) and slow MTA differential and non-linear dynamic
   (entropy) AEP values, computed across a wide-band of different latency intervals, including
   early latency (0-28 ms) signals appearing across the PAMR region, and later latency AEP
   measures (80-140 ins). The combination ofthese latency-interval measures demonstrated the
25 potential to enable faster detection of consciousness transitions, greater responsiveness to
   online events, and superior discrimination between peripheral and central physiological signals.
   New StandardisedA&CDMeasurementMethodology:
            A standardised A&CD measurement methodology was established as a means to
   undertake an expanded clinical study with more consistent and accurate anaesthesia-depth
30  indicator performance outcomes.       In particular, AROC performance tests were deployed to
   describe    A&CD     indicator   prediction   accuracy,  2-sample   t-tests spanning   fast slope

   Page 7
   consciousness transitions       enable responsive consciousness transition detection, and standard
   deviation and average consciousness states values were deployed as a measure of separation
   between consciousness periods.          Univariate,  multivariate and binary logistic statistics were
   calculated     as a means to describe associations      between consciousness states and bispectral
   and5      AEP anaesthesia-depth indicator values.         Additionally, measures of quick (0.5 to 3
   seconds) events       comprising    of   arousals   (Arq),   and   body    movements       (BMq)    were
   identified     as potentially useful online anaesthesia-specific markers.         Noxious   stimuli (Nx)
   episodes were classified      according to body-movement related (BMNx) and cortical arousal
   related     (ArNx) events.        The augmentation     of these    anaesthesia-specific      events with
   conventional arousal (Ar),
10  micro-arousal (Arm), body movement (BM), movement time (MT), and artifact (Af) events
   could have important implications in the context of crucial              anaesthesia periods     such as
   the onset or incidence ofpain, awareness, mobility or elevated anxiolysis.
            These findings established the background for an improved A&CD design requirement
   specification and the basis from which more extensive clinical studies can be conducted.
15 Integratedsensor attachment (ISA) system:
            These     requirements   included integrated oximetry       and associated     output products
   including plethysmography waveform, pulse transit time (PTT), pulse arterial tone (PAT),
   heart rate variability (HRV), heart rate HR, subcortical (autonomic) arousals (sAr), along with
   associated blood-pressure derivatives.      The provision for airflow monitoring as an integral ISA
20 function    was formulated as a means          to enable online     respiration    measurements.     The
   monitoring ofthese parameters coupled with masseter and PAMR (EMG) activity, EEG and
   AEP neurophysiological parameters,           and ECG signals derived        from these signals, were
   described as a means to accommodate the essential measures relevant to A&CD monitoring.
   Additionally, ISA system requirements included onboard signal quality indicators, embedded
25 pressure-activated      cells capable   of regelling   and re-abrading     electrode   connections,  and
   "concertina-type" size-adjustment functionality. Special requirements            included intuitive light
   emitting diode (LED) indicators capable of localised-sensor quality status indication. The
   sizing element can further utilize other retractable and/or expandable elements to allow each
   sensor which forms part of the integrated sensor attachment               device to be re-positioned
30 (registered) on the patients head in accordance to the optimal location of the said sensor and
   also in accordance to the various        facial or cranial structures evident across different ages,
   nationalities,    and other population variances.    Such retractable   and expandable embodiments

   Page 8
   could (but not limited to) include "z" sections "spiral" or any other inter-locking shape. In
   particular shape structures minimizing entanglement, and shape structures able to provide most
   streamlined and less bulky formats are preferred.     For example, the sizing expandable and
   retractable elements should sit closely to the subject's face and and/or head to avoid being
 5 knocked, displaced or dislodged during medical procedures.             Similarly the sizable and
   retractable elements need provide the minimal concealment of the patients head or face during
   medical procedures.
   Patient interface:
            Patient interface requirements were established and included the need for continuous
10  online signal quality and impedance measures.    The requirements were established for online
   and     automatic   mode-configuration   (hybrid   or EEG-based);        sensitivity  and   filtering
   adjustments, and display configurations driven by the format of the connected ISA device and
   signal quality status.
15 Signal processing requirements:
            Signalprocessing requirements established to counter signal disturbances included the
   need to counter troublesome monitoring episodes such as study initialisation, episodes of
   electrosurgical intervention, and start and end of monitoring periods.             Additionally, the
   requirements for adaptable input pre-filtering and digital online filters able to be automatically
20 adjusted in accordance to changing monitoring conditions were established.
   Evokedpotential hierarchicalstimulus generation requirements:
            Evoked potential hierarchicalstimulus generation requirements were established to
   enable simultaneous tracking of AEP responses during servo-controlled stimulus optimisation.
            Stimulus optimisation included adjustments of rate, intensity, standard/deviant ratio,
25  stimuli shape, and stimulus spectral parameters.     Other requirements and design principles
   included the need to generate different stimulus formats based on the specific anaesthesia stage
   and the corresponding anaesthesia measurement requirements applicable to these different
   stages.    Stimulus formats included standard/deviant stimuli sequences, click, warble, chirp,
   tone, speech, and specialised audio sequences.      The desired evoked response requirements
30 ranged from evoked early latency responses (such as PAMR) as markers ofperipheral activity,

   Page 9
   ABR      signal quality     and stimulus connection           status,  and anaesthesia-cognition        specific
   sequences of standard/deviant MMN               stimulus test paradigms,         designed to capture       early
   warning markers ofintraoperative awareness.
   AEP hierarchical analysis
 5           The AEP hierarchical analysis was established in order to disassemble the composite
   AEP signals into separate channels of information relevant to anaesthesia-specific response
   effects.    The hierarchical analysis requirements          included the need to verify ABR obligatory
   sensory responses,      distinguish evoked peripheral measures (PAMR), and to capture higher
   level AEP processing          contingent    potential    (PCP) measures,       by way (for example)          of
10  delineating between N 1-effect and those ofhigher brain MMN brain functional changes which
   are implicated during long term intraoperative memory consolidation.
   Online monitoring requirements:
             Online monitoring requirements were established including: 1) Techniques capable of
   tracking of obligatory evoked PAMR (ePAMR) responses as an improved measure of muscle
15  suppression. These techniques have the potential to enable more precise measures of muscle
   suppression which in tum can contribute to the delineation                 of the separate immobility and
   hypnotic     anaesthetic-  effects.    Failure to effectively distinguish between these 2 states can
   result    in   awareness     during    anaesthesia-induced        muscle    suppression.      In  contrast    to
   conventional cerebral monitors which tend to track forehead EMG activity generating by facial
20 muscles, the       deployment     of PAMR       and masseter        EMG     measures    can provide      greater
   decoupling      between    these    distinctly separate      central   and peripheral      signal origins;    2)
   Intraoperative recall-factor (IRf) based on the interrelationship between                    anxiolysis   levels
   (stress or anxiety) derived from vital-signs and awareness (consciousness                 level) derived from
   neurological correlates;       3) The principal       effects of anaesthesia comprising          of hypnosis,
25  amnesia, immobility, analgesia and anxiolysis, together with interrelated effects including
   awareness accompanied with elevated anxiolysis or anaesthetic-induced paralysis; 4) The need
   for accurate and reliable detection of conventional artifact and arousal detection augmented
   with    anaesthesia-specific     events;    5) Concurrent       online   fast  (2.2   s response)     measures
   representative ofconsciousness transitions, together with measures capable ofcapturing slower
30 trending     information including subtle dosage changes;               6) Continuous      online adaptation

   Page 10
   (mediation) ofmultivariate analyses as a means to optimise A&CD measurements according to
   the changing monitoring conditions.
   A series ofnew onlineA&CD display indices:
            A series ofnew online A&CD display indices (i) were established as a means to track a
 5 number of important anaesthesia-specific effects including overall anaesthetic balance (ABi),
   intraoperative recall factor (IRf), optimally combined measures of electroencephalography
   (EEGi), optimal combinations of auditory evoked processing contingent potentials (APCPi),
   burst suppression (BSi), muscle suppression (MSi), and anxiolysis (ANXi). The requirement
   for ACPi determination comprised of capturing cognitive measures online using a stimulus
10 sequence capable ofrevealing graduated measures using hierarchical analysis as noted above.
   Online event detections were found to be important online monitoring A&CD design
   considerations.
            Background intellectual property has been established and composes of three key
   documents, including an initial A&CD patent application titled "Methods and Apparatus for
15  Monitoring Consciousness", a second patent application titled "Method and Apparatus for
   Monitoring Consciousness During Anaesthesia" published as WO 2006/122349 by the World
   International Property Organisation [7; 8], and a third patent application currently in process.
   In total one patent has been granted, two have been accepted and seven are pending as it relates
   to the initial European application [7].       The design and innovation outputs have been
20  established in the form of design requirements, systems flow diagram, and patents forming the
   basis of a new generation A&CD system now under development.
   Simultaneous PAMR, ABR andMLAEP monitoring:
            An important future study requirement is to investigate the mechanisms responsible for
   the transition from awareness to unconsciousness.      This thesis established that simultaneous
25  derivations of PAMR, ABR and MLAEP measures are feasible during routine clinical
   anaesthesia, but it was also found that these measures essentially behave in a binary manner
   versus more graduated measures generated by bispectral analysis. Therefore, the question for
   future research    arises as to whether AEPs monitored       during anaesthesia behave      in this
   switch-like manner      due  to  a anaesthesia   muscle-suppressant     "neural-blocking"   effects
   relating to the
30  sedation peripheral auditory functions, or whether this transition is an accurate predictor of the
   underlying                hypnosis             effects             during              anaesthesia.

   Page 11
   Automated clinical markers ofSPA&CD:
            The identification   of more specific A&CD          correlates,  more  effective   clinical
   observations scales, more sensitive cognitive AEP measures, and a better understanding of the
   mechanisms responsible for the anaesthesia-specific effects are future research considerations.
 5 The investigation into improved clinical-command stimuli and corresponding test techniques
   capable of overcoming existent limitations remains an important area for future research.
   Anaesthesia monitoring system clinical assessment and clinical scales of anaesthesia rely upon
   equivocal clinical response tests rely on patient-co-operation,      excessive test intervals, and
   investigator interpretation.  While consciousness transitions can be detected accurately with a
10    few seconds using new fast AEP methods, the traditional command-stimuli tests are based on
   manually conducting clinical response tests at consecutive intervals of 10 s or more. Despite
   the widespread deployment of Ramsay, OAA/S and other popular clinical scales, these tools
   cannot discriminate between crucial short-term versus long-terms memory functions implicated
   during intraoperative recall. Therefore, the question as to whether fast AEP measures should
15 be deployed to overcome timing and patient-co-operation limitations of conventional scales of
   anaesthesia remains an important subject for future investigations.
   Neural Source Estimation (NSE):
            The A&CD monitoring system incorporates neural source estimation (NSE) ofone or
   more evoked or continuous neurological signals and incorporates any combination of steps or
20 means compnsmg:
   "        The online or "near realtime" monitoring ofEEG anteriorisation;
   -        The online or "near realtime" monitoring of cognitive unbinding;
   -        The online or "near realtime" monitoring ofEEG lateralisation/hemispherical changes;
   -        The online or "near realtime" monitoring ofthese factors using as few as 3 electrodes;
25  -       One embodiment cabn include (but not limited to) 3 electrodes such as the frontal
   central (Fpz or nasion), lefi (Fp 1), and right (Fp2) hemispherical registrations, together with
   anteriorisation using an additional posterior (nape/Inion/lz) electrode.
   -        The online or "near realtime" monitoring of NSE incorporating any combination of
   non-linear dynamic EEG time-series, spatiotemporal dynamics implicated during audiovisual

   Page 12
   processing, spatio-temporal brain dynamics corresponding to processing and/or the integration
   of sound localisation cues;
   0        The online or "near realtime" monitoring of lateralisation or anteriorisation changes
   during anaesthesia      a combined with any combination of non-linear dynamic (including
 5 complexity and entropy type transforms), spectral, power or other amplitude relationships,
   and/or phase or bispectral and related products.
   Dosage Control method and systems:
            Investigations into more sophisticated dosage control, capable of tracking specific and
   interrelated effects of anaesthesia as described in this thesis, is an important subject for future
10 research. The ability of closed-loop dosage systems to minimise preventable incidents such as
   dosage-overshoot, while enabling more precise anaesthesia-specific control across the principal
   physiological and psychological effects of anaesthesia is a subject for future research. The
   investigation into the benefits and risks associated with emerging dosage delivery technologies
   such as low frequency ultrasonic skin transdermal perfusion and nano-pharmaceuticals are also
15 worthy considerations.
   SPA&CD drug development method and system:
            Drug development based on new experimental techniques and technological approaches
   remains an essential requirement for future research. In particular, investigations into more
   specific biomarkers      reflective of direct and interrelated    anaesthesia-specific  effects are
20  important considerations. The development ofmore sensitive and specific anaesthetics remains
   an important subject for future research. While conventional anaesthetics have been formulated
   on the basis of empirical study outcomes (analysis of desirable effects) more effective
   techniques using biological markers (biomarkers) continue to evolve. Biomarkers can now be
   identified according to the changes detected across physiological, cognitive, neurochemical and
25  cellular mechanisms corresponding to anaesthetic-effects.         More recent drug development
   techniques are capable of testing anaesthetic-specific activity as it relates to precise groups of
   neural, nerve      or muscle cells responsible    for specific   anaesthetic   effects.   Transgenic
   modification     (animal and insect models) in vivo cellular monitoring, and more recent
   techniques enabling the in vitro monitoring of anaesthetic cellular activity are showing promise
30 in the pursuit of improved sedatives or anaesthetics. These new technologies and experimental
   techniques    could    enable the behavioural    characterisation    of specific   neural  receptors

    Page 13
    responsible for memory functions implicated during intraoperative recall. Designing safer drug
    compounds utilising direct and specific biomarker measures corresponding to the activation or
    desensitisation of these anaesthetic-specific mechanisms       may lead to superior anaesthetics for
    the future. The question arises as to whether improved anaesthetics could deactivate long term
  5 memory receptors during anaesthesia, without inadvertently suppressing cardiac or respiratory
    functions.   Furthermore, the development of more sensitive and safer anaesthetics could enable
    anaesthesia usage amongst high-risk groups (such as trauma patients), currently excluded from
    anaesthesia.
    IntegralSPA&CD monitoring system cognitive marker data base and normative assessment
10  system:
             The   investigation   into  reversible    and permanent      anaesthesia-induced    cognitive
    dysfunction remains an important topic for future research. Patients are susceptible to a range
    of adverse incidents during anaesthesia which can temporarily or permanently affect cognition,
    including oxygen deprivation, excessive anaesthesia (linked to mortality rates), insufficient
15    anaesthesia (can result in intraoperative awareness and PTSD),          or restricted circulation  of
    respiratory function (can lead to cognitive impairment).        Cognitive assessments ofthe effects
    of short and long term memory functions, cognition responsiveness and other tests capable of
    identifying potential    anaesthesia-related cognitive    dysfunction should be subjected to both
    preview and follow-up studies.      While studies have reported the link between deep sedation
20   and patient mortality rates, large scale cognition follow up studies remain an important agenda
    for future research.     A study designed to establish and validate a standardised battery of
    anaesthesia-specific cognitive tests should be considered. The establishment of standardised
    automation methodologies can potentially         streamline the undertaking of larger multi-centre
    clinical studies.   The individual-patient cognitive evaluation outcomes can be compared to
25   larger normative    databases   or the patient's   own cognition performance as a reference to
    cognitive deterioration, recovery or improvement. The combination of appropriate assessments
    and decision     support based on validated       tests and statistical based methodologies could
    contribute to the development of more individual patient-specific anaesthetic compounds and
    delivery techniques.
30  Online monitoring:

   Page 14
             Advancements include the establishment of PAMR tracking                  representative of the
   balance between CNS, and peripheral activity bordering the brain region. Online prediction of
   intra-operative awareness can be achieved by correlating periods of elevated psychological or
   physiological stress (anxiolysis) with A&CD neurophysiological measures.                These periods of
 5 intra-operative recall-stress     factor (IRf) can be indicative of muscle suppressant induced
   paralysis,   accompanied by consciousness.          The online functions      include noxious stimulus
   detection and noise discrimination monitoring methods based on optimal combinations of
   linear, non-linear     dynamic,    and latency interval parameters       (per clinical study outcomes).
   Furthermore,     faster online     consciousness   detection    (2.2   s response    delay),    and more
10 cognitively    sensitive A&CD monitoring techniques were established based on these optimal
   AEP analysis      combinations.       Additionally, estimated     neural source estimation based on
   tracking    changes    in EEG hemispherical        activity   and anteriorisation were       identified as
   potentially valuable correlates ofA&CD monitoring.
   In terms ofonline monitoring/processing and operator interface:
15           Display indications were established and organised into four categories comprising of
   important A&CD         monitoring properties,    specific A&CD       monitoring requirements,       special
   A&CD requirements, and future requirements.
   Firstly, important A&CD          monitoring properties     include the need for exceptional         system
   reliability   and robustness     suitable for demanding       operating theatre   clinical   applications;
20  consistent and minimal online measurement response delay; a high tolerance to electrosurgical
   and other signal disturbances; safe and dependable             pharmacological tracking;       and a high
   degree of discrimination between A&CD neural, peripheral, noxious stimuli, and background
   noise signals.     Secondly, specific A&CD        monitoring indications include an overall A&CD
   integrated index; fast detection        of consciousness transitions;     graduated A&CD        measures;
25 tracking periods of elevated intra-operative awareness and recall risk (such as unconsciousness
   accompanied with high anxiolysis ); tracking vital sign and corresponding anxiolysis state;
   tracking anaesthetic balance, and detection of important events and periods.             Important events
   include awareness, noxious stimuli, EMG bust, body movements,                 signal dropouts, arousals,
   eye movements,       electrosurgical interference, and mains interference.        Important periods or
30   signal tracking includes EEG burst suppression and cortical silence, EMG power, gamma
   power, anxiolysis      level, integrated measures    of anxiolysis     and hypnosis    depth, and signal
   quality    and sensor connection       status.   Thirdly, special A&CD        requirements     include the

   Page 15
   integration of clinical observations; spectral display of important A&CD signal periods and
   events; system adaptation to changing online monitoring conditions including increased
   environmental or background physiological signal disturbances; and stimulus detection (during
   AEP monitoring).        Future requirements include hierarchical      AEP     cognition tracking;
 5 continuous AEP test and measurement servo optimisation; integrated and more effective
   clinical anaesthesia/sedation scales; consistent operation during the administration of special
   case NMDA/opioid anaesthetics, and monitoring patient subgroups such as children, the aged
   or those with neurological disorders including dementia (see also operator interface design
   requirements).
10 Linkages Between Anxiolysis andlntraoperativeRecall-risk:
           Elevated anxiolysis marked by vascular constriction, racing heart, and increased blood
   pressure.   Based on these factors the link between elevated anxiolysis and intraoperative
   awareness recall was established.    Consequently, the requirement for vital sign monitoring as
   an integral function ofA&CD monitoring was established.
15
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
           An integrated sensor attachment apparatus incorporating a single-substrate patient
   applied part for monitoring physiological, including cognitive, signals, the apparatus
   comprising of at least one of vital sign monitoring sensor,postauricular muscle (PAM)
20 monitoring sensor,masseter sensor, integrated reflective oximeter sensor,integrated or attached
   ear-located oximeter monitoring sensor.
           A further device and method to monitor the pain and/or sedation and/or anesthesia
   depth of a subject, the device comprising; A PAMR and a vital sign monitoring signal channel,
   a microprocessor to compute at least one output indicator of said subject's state ofhypnosis,
25 amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiety, pain, sedation or awareness measures, a
   microprocessor to compute measures of PAMR or masseter EMG, a microprocessor to
   compute masseter EMG, a microprocessor to compute the discrimination between masseter
   and/or PAMR EMG and central nervous system (CNS) signals.
           A further apparatus and method for acquiring physiological data from a living being or
30 in vitro sample for the physiological, psychological, cognitive or cellular status comprising:

   Page 16
   means for acquiring at least one stimulus-evoked biosignal response; means for calculating at
   least one measurement value from the at least one acquired evoked biosignals wherein the
   calculation incorporates the computation of non-linear dynamical         (NLD) transform    from at
   least one evoked response biosignal representative ofchanges within said biosignal.
 5          A biological monitoring apparatus incorporating parts enabling the minimization of
   unwanted environmental or external system noise, by way of monitoring or sensing unwanted
   noise within a monitoring environment and then processing this sensed signal to enable a noise
   cancellation system comprising: an input sensing and/or input monitoring part enabling the
   cancellation of the unwanted noise within the wanted signal; a part capable of adjusting the
10 noise characteristics of one or more channels of sensed or monitored noise in such a way as to
   produce an optimal noise cancellation signal; a part capable ofcombining a noise cancellation
   signal with a monitored signal ofinterest so that the resulting signal outcome comprises ofthe
   signal of interest with the unwanted signal diminished or eliminated;
            Apparatus for determining and monitoring the characteristics ofunwanted noise and
15 distortion, the method including: a microprocessor device programmed to continuously track
   environmental, background physiological and/or other unwanted noise and distortion, at least
   one microprocessor device, a microprocessor device programmed to continuously compute the
   association between predefined frequency spectral noise and distortion characteristics and the
   frequency spectrum characteristics of a monitoring system.
20          A biological monitoring apparatus incorporating a means ofminimizing unwanted
   environmental or external system noise, by way of automatic, manual or computer-assisted
   data acquisition sample and hold adaptation incorporating an adjustable input signal sample
   and hold acquisition window and comprising an adjustable sample and hold aperture window
   device enabling the sample and hold ofthe input signal at the points in time where noise or
25 interference signals have least impact on the signal of interest, versus the peaks or higher level
   noise spikes where such interference can other wise be accentuated;
   - sample and hold aperture window timing control capable ofbeing synchronized with external
   equipment timing reference or sensed (such as via external environment noise sensors) to
   enable the data acquisition aperture to be interleaved between the most prominent noise peaks
30 within the input signal of interest, to ensure the effects ofunwanted external cyclic noise are
   minimized;

   Page 17
   - a device capable of determining and resolving the timing reference directly related to
   unwanted external cyclic noise;
   - a device capable of deriving an optimal acquisition sampling rate and aperture window from
   an externally connected (wire and/or wireless, wire, optical, magnetic, capacitive or other)
 5 timing signal or noise tracking sensor so that the acquisitioned data points are interleaved
   between the unwanted cyclic noise peaks, which would otherwise be accentuated within the
   acquisitioned signals ofinterest;
   - a sample and window timing device enabling the aperture window to be delayed so as to
   minimize unwanted external signal interference;
10 - a sample and window timing device enabling the aperture window delay and width to be
   controlled so as to minimize unwanted external signal interference.
            A    device     for    determining     optimal     combinations     of    drug     delivery
   compounds corresponding to a subject's monitored          states comprising   of any of hypnosis,
   amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis,
15 vital signs, or online events.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1 A&CD system claim structure overview map with numbering ofmain claim groups
20 Figure 2 A&CD system top level overview
   Figure 3 FLOW DIAGRAM SYSTEM OF TYPICAL OF TYPICAL
   SEDATION/PAIN/ANAESTHESIA AND CONSCIOUSNESS DEPTH (SPA&CD) NLD
   MONITORING EMBODIMENT, AND INCOPORATING PRINCIPAL CLAIM GROUPS
   Figure 4 Integrated sensor attachment (ISA) system with signals quality indicators
25 Figure 5 Conceptual overview ofUEM module incorporating (LHS panel) binaural stimulus
   "Y" adaptor acoustic-coupler circuit, electrode assembly connection status, battery display
   indicator, signal quality status and user prompt indicators [7; 8]
   Figure 6 Main system diagnostic-mode graphic user interface

   Page 18
   Figure 7 The Neural spectral display (NSD) presented as function ofthe A&CD display
   (A&CDD) system with frequency histogram
   Figure 8 256-sweep AEP averages plotted from anaesthetised surgical patient data recording
   showing study time (s) on x-axis and AEP NLD anaesthesia-depth indicator values on y-axis
 5 Figure 9 15-sweep arx AEP averages plotted from anaesthetised surgical patient data
   recording showing study time (s) on x-axis and AEP NLD anaesthesia-depth indicator values
   on y-axis
   Figure 10 Patient-13 AEPiDAS latency-dependent detection ofdata peaks denoted 'a' to d'
   Figure 11 Latency-interval dependent (LID) analysis and online event discrimination
10 properties
   Figure 12 Online event discrimination and delineation between any combination ofCNS,
   PNS, MT, BM, Ar, ArNx, eye-movement, EMG intrusion or burst event discrimination and
   classification
   Figure 13 External noise sensing and cancellation
15 Figure 14 Structured Approach to Effective Sedation, Pain and Anaesthesia (SPA) Monitoring
   - conventional approach
   Figure 15 Structured Approach to Effective Sedation, Pain and Anaesthesia (SPA) Monitoring
   - contemporary approach
   Figure 16 Structured Approach to Effective Sedation, Pain and Anaesthesia (SPA) Monitoring
20 - contemporary approach
   Figure 17 A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SEDATION, PAIN AND/OR
   ANAESTHESIA MONITORING
   Table 1 Mapping ofthe principal A&CD functional measurement requirements applicable to
25 direct and interactive anaesthetic effects
   Table 2 Summary of conventional and anaesthesia-specific events
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION

   Page 19
   Figure 1:
   Figure 1 decomposes the system into seven subsystems, each subsystem further decomposed
   into a number of components.     Each ofthese subsystems and the affiliated components will be
   described in the form of systems requirements.    Green blocks represent systems inventions.
 5 Figure 2:
   Figure 2 presents a high level overview of a typical A&CD system embodiment. Section A
   shows the patient monitored signals via the patient-applied sensor or the so called integrated
   sensor attachment device, which is typically applied to the patients forehead and facial regions.
   A stimulus signal is generated and applied to the patient in order to evoked the desired patient
10 responses fro further processing. The patient sensor-monitored signals are signal conditioned
   then input to section E where the evoked potential monitoring functions are applied to the
   evoked signals, and to section E where the continuously monitored signals are further
   processed. Section C applies special non-linear dynamical processing transforms to the
   evoked response signals, while section F applies non-linear dynamical processing transforms
15 to the continuous physiological signals. The range of evoked potential analysis transform
   outcomes are then input to section D, which computes the evoked-potential combinational
   analysis so that section H can display the relevant corresponding system output measures.
   The range of continuous signal analysis transform outcomes are then input to section G, which
   computes the continuous signal combinational analysis so that section H can display the
20 relevant corresponding system output measures.
   Figure 3:
   Figure 3 presents a more detailed overview of a typical A&CD system overview.
   The physiological parameters monitored from an individual Figure 3; section A) undergoing
   both evoked potential (EP; section B) and continuous electroencephalography (CE; section E)
25 monitoring are analysed online (real-time) or offline (section C) in order to compute a series of
   EP and CE derived non-linear dynamic         (NLD) measures     of pain/sedation/anaesthesia and
   consciousness depth (SPA&CD)      during clinical or daily routines.  These NLD parameters can
   be combined with (but not limited to) other classical or linear analysis outcomes as a means to
   compute a series of multivariate CE or processed parameters (section D; block 12); combined
30 CE and EP parameters (section D; block 13) and/or CE multivariate output measures (section

   Page 20 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
   H). The output measures can be deployed as stand-alone SPA&CD indicators during clinical
   audiology, anaesthesia, ICU, sentient or cognitive state monitoring.
    Section B shows EP functions and general analysis requirements including the EP stimulus
    generation function (section B; block 2) and signal preamplification, filtering, sample and hold
 5 and acquisition (section B; block 3).     The external noise sampling and clock input provision
   designed    for  synchronised-acquisition    noise-reduction   (section  B;   block   4)  described
   elsewhere in a separate document but in general enable external equipment clock signals and/or
   external noise sources to be sensed and acquisitioned by the SPA&CD monitoring system as a
   means to synchronise sample and hold functions in such a manner that signals sampling is
10  'interleaved' between peak interference periods. The sample-interleaving can be achieved by
   way of optimal synchronisation between external equipment and/or noise peaks monitored
   using specialised environmental noise monitoring sensors. Fast middle latency audio evoked
   potential (MLAEP) moving time average (MTA) derivations are derived (block 6) as a means
   to compute differential (block 7) and NLD (block 8) fast MTA outcomes.             Similarly, slow
15   MLAEP moving time average (MTA) derivations are derived (block 9) as a means to compute
   differential (block 10) and NLD (block 11) slow MTA outcomes.            The differential and NLD
   fast MTA values are computed and input to the SPA&CD EP online combining analysis (block
    12) which serves to compute a series of different combinational output measures which are in
    turn output as display indicators (section H) output and also combined with the CE multivariate
20 (block 33) to produce a series ofcombined EP and CE SPA&CD measures (block 13).
            Mediation analysis special considerations:       The multivariate output values can be
   combined with special arbitration analysis which is designed to weight the influence of each
   input variable in accordance to a separate value as described in a separate document (reference
   existent patent application dealing with mediation analysis). In general the arbitration analysis
25  can for example (but not limited to) adjust the weighting of the EP versus CE informational
    inputs according to a third parameter such as NLD parameters (but not limited to) whereby the
   NLD parameters        (EP and or CE) may broadly indicate the anaesthesia             depth phase
    (consciousness; light anaesthesia; deep anaesthesia) which in turn describes the probable
    relevance of the MLAEP weighting at any point in time. In particular, the deployment of CE
30 NLD analysis (including different forms of spectral entropy, morphological entropy or type of
   complexity analysis) can provide an independent computational process less vulnerable to
   deep-anaesthesia signal instability than conventional MLAEP SNR analysis techniques in

   Page 21 of53                                                    Substitute Specification - Clean
   terms of mediating multivariate input variables derived from EP and CE signal sources.          For
   example, in circumstances      such as deep anaesthesia when MLAEP SNR is known to
   deteriorate the CE signal will likely be more dominant in terms of reliance upon the
   computation of SPA&CD indicator values.         This type of system helps minimise the reliance
 5 upon MLAEP SNR outcomes at periods when even the MLAEP SNR computation is likely to
   produce erroneous outcomes given the unstable nature of MLAEP signals during deep
   anaesthesia [30; 31].
            The auditory brain-stem response (ABR) MTA (block 20) and associated analysis
   (block 21) are designed to enable the tracking of ABR signal changes during sedation and
10   anaesthesia. These output measures (block 22) can be more stable than MLAEP during deeper
   stages of anaesthesia or sedation and therefore can provide superior markers representative of
   stimulus presentation and AEP signal validity. The ABR functions are outlined in a separate
   document
            The evoked potential postauricular muscle (ePAMR) analysis (block 23) computes the
15    signal activity across the early latency period (typically 0 to 28 ms) indicative of
   PAMR activity as a sensitive      evoked measure of sedative      or anaesthesia-induced    muscle
   suppression. This analysis can take for form of (but not limited to) spectral and latency
   filtering,  followed by signal amplitude      determination   (block 25) multivariate      analysis
   (blocks 12 and 13)       and output measures presented in block 25.           The interconnection
   between CE ePAMR analysis
20  (block 24) and multivariate analysis (block 33) highlights the important combinational
   analysis between conventional facial forehead signals, special masseter CE EMG derivation
   and ePAMR EMG signal determination (blocks 23 and 24) are designed to compute spectral
   and morphological latency/amplitude tracking ofchanges during sedation or anaesthesia.
            The    mismatched   negativity  real-time   (MMNrt)    MTA      (block  26),   associated
25  hierarchical analysis functions (block 27) and output measures (block 28) in general provide a
   means to disassemble the composite AEP signal into the different functional information
   channels representative of the lower level ABR sensory responses, the NI markers indicative
   of the arrival of the stimulus through the cochlear and auditory nerves to the cerebral cortex
   (such as NI presence), the afferent neural responses (such as NI-effect), elevated N1-P2
30   amplitudes corresponding to increased refractory period (inter-stimulus interval; ISI), MLAEP
   amplitude-latency    changes with deeper anaesthesia, through to the processing contingent
   potentials (PCP) indicative of the higher order attention states indicative of the laying down of

   Page 22 of53                                                    Substitute Specification - Clean
   longer term memones implicated during intraoperative recall.         These hierarchical analysis
   function functions are outlined in a separate document.
           The block 36 input vital signs, the continuous vital sign and central nervous system
   (CNS) SPA&CD stress-related risk analysis (block 31) and associated output measures (block
 5 35) typically derive their signal input information from a special integrated sensor attachment
   (ISA) system. The SPA&CD system incorporates vital sign parameters (pulse rate, respiratory
   rate, body temperature, and blood pressure) as integral online monitoring functions. In general
   the vital sign monitoring (per VSM, above) can track patient vital signs (pulse rate, respiratory
   rate, body temperature, and blood pressure), hemodynamic         functions (circulatory measures
10   such as PTT subcortical arousals) and autonomic measures (peripheral nervous system
   homeostasis    functions  such as HRV) relevant to anaesthesia.          Additionally, the VSM
   functionality includes the provision to derive a range of vital sign measures based the
   monitoring functions of the integrated sensor attachment (refer also ISA), integrated reflective
   plethysmography-waveform       oximetry (refer also IRPO) and these measures support the
15  derivation of intraoperative recall factor (refer also IRf).   The vital sign functions can be
   individually displayed as presented in various integrated forms. The ISA system and the IRf
   system are detailed in separate documents.
           The masseter derivation (block 37) is typically derived form the special IAS system.
   The masseter analysis (block 38) and associated output measures (block 39) can augment the
20  ePAMR analysis as described above and similar to these measures enable sensitive and
   accurate continuous tracking of the patient's EMG activity. The masseter derivation of EMG
   level during SPA&CD monitoring are detailed in a separate document.
           Block 40 processes the EP (block 6), fast MTA (block 6) and slow MTA (block 9)
   inputs in order to detect and delineate important online events such as body movements (BM),
25  movement time (MT), arousals, anaesthesia-specific arousals such as noxious stimuli (ArNx),
   background physiological events such as eye movements; EMG bursts; or EMG intrusion in
   general, artifact and other signal fluctuation which could be relevant to SPA&CD or reversal.
   Additionally, the distinctive central nervous system versus peripheral nervous systems signal
   sources are identified. Block 41 classifies these online events and signals sources, while block
30  42 applies EP NLD analysis processing as a means to enhance discrimination between different
   physiological signal sources and online events.     Block 43 provides both discrete targets of
   anaesthesia (such as hypnosis, analgesia, amnesia, immobility, anxiolysis) and combined

   Page 23 of53                                                   Substitute Specification - Clean
   measures of anaesthetic balance in a form suitable to provide the clinician optimal dosage
   guidance and patient state information at any point in time, as further outlined in figure 14-17
   and table 1-2.
            Figure 3, Block 44 presents the integrated sensor attachment (ISA) system as further
 5 outlined in tablel-2 incorporating a range of embedded sensors to monitor peripheral, central
   and vital sign signals was established. These requirements included integrated oximetry and
   associated output products including plethysmography waveform, pulse transit time (PTT),
   pulse arterial tone (PAT), heart rate variability (HRV), heart rate HR, subcortical (autonomic)
   arousals (sAr), along with associated blood-pressure derivatives.    The provision for airflow
10  monitoring as an integral ISA function was formulated as a means to enable online respiration
   measurements. The monitoring of these parameters coupled with masseter and PAMR (EMG)
   activity, EEG and AEP neurophysiological parameters, and ECG signals derived from these
   signals, were described as a means to accommodate the essential measures relevant to A&CD
   monitoring. Additionally, ISA system requirements included onboard signal quality indicators,
15  embedded pressure-activated cells capable of regelling and re-abrading electrode connections,
   and "concertina-type"    size-adjustment functionality. Special requirements included intuitive
   light emitting diode (LED) indicators capable oflocalised-sensor quality status indication.
   Figure 4:
            Figure 4 presents the integrated sensor attachment (ISA) system with signals quality
20     indicators, with markers highlighting the integrated reflective oximeter (8); embedded
   electrophysiological electrodes with re-hydration and abrasion pressure pad functions (1-6);
   stimulus (7) and integrated oximeter (8), and LED quality status indicators. The ISA system
   comprises of a low-cost, diposable patient-applied part encompassing anaesthesia-specific and
   appropriately placed EEG/AEP,        EMG     and vital  sign sensors,   integral  signal quality
25 management systems, and provisions for airflow monitoring, as outlined here.
            From a construction perspective      the ISA incorporates    a single-substrate   flexible
   membrane capable of conforming to a wide range ofdifferent facial profiles, in order to prevent
   buckling and gaps which can deteriorate the crucial electrode to skin contact impedance or
   connection status. A series of quality control LEDS (functions described below) need to be
30   located near each of the monitoring sensors, along with a series of embedded electrode
   gel pressure-pad    cells (functions  described below).     The design of the ISA interface
   connector                                                                                         is

   Page 24 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   extremely important and allow highly reliable user-friendly interconnectivity.          Guidelines and
   standards relating to these disposable devices are important consideration, particularly in the
   context of environmental standards controlling disposable material and recycling requirements.
           A special "concertina-style" or other type of retractable or expandable size-adjustment
 5 element enables a limited range of ISA sizes to be configured to the demand of the wider
   population.
           The    ISA   electrode    placements    are  critical and  accommodate        the   monitoring
   requirements relevant to electrode registrations outlined in
           In particular the standard range of ISA sensors accommodate both hybrid (EEG/AEP)
10 and    EEG-based     configurations.       A  hybrid   advanced   configuration     (see  figure   4-5)
   incorporating additional     electrodes   such as Iz (posterior EEG),     facilitate special analysis
   functions such as EEG neural source estimation (NSE; described below) [32].
   The ISA system incorporates LED indicators which indicate the signal status computed by the
   signal quality estimation (SQE) and corresponding indicator and control systems (SQI&C;
15 requirements outlined below).       The ISA LED indicators intuitively alert the user of the sensor
   signal quality and connection       status whereby (for example) green LED illumination could
   signify acceptable quality, orange for marginal and red for failure or disconnection status. The
   ISA system is presented below in figure 4, while an illustration of the UEM with integrated
   signal quality LEDS is presented in figure 5.
20         The provision for an integrated reflective plethysmography-waveform oximetry (IRPO)
   system (described below) enable vital sign monitoring as an integral ISA function.
           The provision for an optional airflow sensor using thermosensitive material such as (but
   not limited to) thermocoupler, thermistor or PVDF materials for the more specialised and more
   advanced ISA versions.
25          One embodiment of the disposable ISA system includes a backup battery which is
   designed to be activated when opening the secured and sealed ISA packaging. This feature
   enables a degree of battery life predictability based on the packaging use-by-date information
   as introduced in the related background intellectual property publications [7].
           The integrated sensor attachment         (ISA) system originated    as part of the related
30 background IP publications [7; 8].

   Page 25 of53                                                        Substitute Specification - Clean
            The AEP stimulus can be included as part of the electronic interface module (UIM;
   WEM), incorporated as a small speaker driver as part for the ISA substrate, or alternatively be
   included as a wireless earpiece or headphone system. In the case of the wireless earpiece
   option up to 2 earpieces can be provided. Each earpiece can comprise of two separable parts
 5 consisting of a reusable and a disposable element.          The disposable element can include the
   patient-applied   parts which are subject to cross-infection risk where reuse is deployed.
   Furthermore, in one embodiment the battery, which can be a disposable or rechargeable part,
   can be interconnected with the disposable earpiece section so that operation is simplified by
   attaching the disposable and reusable parts at the start of monitoring and then disposing of the
10  disposable parts at the end of monitoring. For example, a low cost silicon earpiece could be
   attached to a miniature electronic wireless stimulus module to enable quick attachment,
   minimal obtrusion but reliable operation.
            The UEM, WEM and CEM incorporate similar functionality except for the cable versus
   wireless interface connectivity options as the naming convention suggest. The UEM term can
15 be substituted for WEM or CEM in the following text, except where specific reference to
   interconnectivity and power functions apply. UEM functions include signal preamplification
   and filtering, data acquisition, digital filtering, signal quality management functions, stimulus
   generation, and battery and wireless management functions outlined here.
            A quick-connect and release system enables reliable and user-friendly interconnection
20 with the ISA and UEM.
            While the ISA is designed to be a low-cost disposable device, the patient interface
   electronic module is designed to be a reusable system and contains more expensive electronics
   circuitry.
            Cable connection can be deployed at anytime without disrupting monitoring, enabling a
25 convenient and high-dependent monitoring backup provision for circumstances where battery
   recharging or wireless interference a concern.
            The UEM enables stereo or monaural stimulus operation using "Y-junction" interface
   adaptor as shown in figure 5.       The UEM acoustic coupling function can be combined with
   provision for disposable ear-pieces and interconnecting tubing, to mitigate patient cross
30 infection risks.

    Page 26 of53                                                       Substitute Specification - Clean
             The   following figure      5 presents    a conceptual   overview    of the   UEM     module
    incorporating     stimulus acoustic-coupler, IAS      connection   status indicator, battery   display
    indicator signal quality status and user prompt indicators.
    Figure 6:
  5          Figure 6 and figure 7 share similar elements except that figure 7 provides a more
    comprehensive diagnostic mode of monitoring whereby the main display area can be assigned
    to display many additional analysis functions, as depicted by the row of display selections at
    the base ofthe main screen display area.
    Figure 7:
10                  Figure 7 presents an extended display mode referred to as the neural spectral
    display (NSD) and provides a number of special display tools designed to examine various
    events, special-case monitoring       periods   and other display views relevant to more detailed
    monitoring.
             The NSA      and the A&CDD         functions  as a useful tool for the investigation of
    anaesthesia monitoring as outlined here.
15   a       The A&CD system is configured to enable the computation, recording of and display of
    a range of analysis histogram outcomes            including frequency/FFT     amplitude   and power,
    bisprectum     and related   output products,     and non-linear   dynamic   analysis  (entropy),  as
    illustrated in the selection options presented in the lower panel offigure 7.
    -        Online histogram display       indication together   with corresponding reports present
20  information in a graphic or tabular format.
    -         One example of an important display mode is the need for a spectral display whereby
    relevant anaesthesia spectral parameters       such as the spectral band of DC to 8 Hz (increases
    during alertness [21] wake activity and opioid usage [23]), alpha and           beta bands (increase
    during wake), gamma (increases during anaesthesia).
25  a        AEP (including ABR) and EEG spectral displays distinguish 50, 100, 150, 60, 120 and
     180 Hz mains-cycle frequencies are presented.
    -         The NSA display format is available for all physical or derived channels including
    output          noise        control         and        stimulus               audio         channels.

   Page 27 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
           The NSA spectral display accommodates DC to 8 Hz delta and theta bands region
   which are believed to be representative of alertness [21] or artifact regions such as arousals and
   eye movements [23], 8 to 12 Hz alpha and 16 to 32 beta band regions which are believed to be
   markers of anaesthesia depth [23] and sleep states [14], 30 to 47 Hz regions believed to be
 5 markers of gamma [10; 28], 70 Hz to 110 Hz EMG spectrum [2], 11 to 210 Hz, and 201 to 500
   Hz as a marker ofcognitive function and/or capacity [21].
            The NSA system as presented in figure 7 displays a power distribution histogram. The
   percentage of the total power (100%)        for each of the spectral bands relevant to A&CD
   determination is displayed for each consecutive or I s overlapped 8 s interval. The spectral
10 bands are decomposed into frequencies ranging from DC (white) to 500 Hz (red), as outlined in
   the scale presented in the lefi section of the display panel. The upper right section of the
   diagram displays the overall integrated A&CDi representative of a summary anaesthesia depth
   indication, while the lower bargraph and corresponding meter display representative (top to
   bottom of panel) of other relevant factors including EMG muscle suppression index (MSi),
15  EEG burst-suppression index (EEG BSi), intraoperative-recall risk factor (IRf), signal quality
   factor (SQf) and cerebral silence factor (CSf).
   -        Fast consciousness transitional detection status, together with crucial artifact signal drop
   out and burst suppression periods can be displayed concurrently with slower moving histogram
   bargraph changes, by way of a background            colour change and corresponding alerts as
20 demonstrated in figure 7, where the consciousness transitions (COtx) and burst suppression
   periods are clearly indicated.
   0       The lower panel of figure 7 presented here demonstrates a series of screen-buttons
   representative of sample range of physiological variables and analysis parameter selections
   available for the online NSA and A&CDD investigator mode.
25 Figure 8:
           Figure 8 presents 256-sweep AEP averages plotted from anaesthetised surgical patient
   data recording showing study time (s) on x-axis and AEP NLD anaesthesia-depth indicator
   values on y-axis.     This example data plot demonstrates the value of applying non-linear
   dynamical analysis processes to evoked-response signals and combining these processes with
30 the unique latency-interval analysis processes.    Additionally, the sample plot demonstrates in
   this case the use of differential amplitude analysis techniques used in conjunction with the non-

   Page 28 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   linear dynamical auditory evoked potential (AEP) and AEP time-interval dependent processes.
   The non-linear dynamic process can include entropy, spectral entropy, time-series complexity
   analysis, time series spectral complexity analysis or other variants of the non-linear dynamic
   transformation. Additionally, the other processes which can be used in conjunction with this
 5 analyses    methods    include   integration, power,     square root   or direct AEP       amplitude
   computations.
   Figure 10 and Figure 11 description:
            Figure 10 and Figure 11 presents 15-sweep arx AEP averages plotted from
   anaesthetised surgical patient data recording showing study time (s) on x-axis and AEP NLD
10 anaesthesia-depth indicator values on y-axis.
   Figure 10:
            Figure 10 presents a sample patient AEPiDAS latency-dependent detection of data
   peaks denoted 'a' to d', and demonstrates the unique computation of important monitoring
   data using the unique AEP latency-interval processes.
15 Figure 10 and figure 11 Description:
            Figure 10 shows that the same monitoring event appears to be emphasised or
   deemphasised according to the latency-parameter. For example, the data peak denoted 'a' is
   greater in amplitude than 'b in all graphs except 3 (15-80 ms) and 4 (20-80 ms) but graph 4
   seems to be a more sensitive detector of event 'b than graph 3.
20           In general these results demonstrate the high detection sensitivity for all latency-interval
   versions of the 256-sweep AEPiDAS averages compared to the commercially deployed by
   bispectral analysis monitoring systems.      Additionally, examination of the data peaks (a to d)
   demonstrated that AEP latency-interval          did influence the    sensitivity of AEP detection
   sensitivity. Based on the higher
    d' versus 'c    data peak in graphs '3' (for example), the opposite relationship between these
25 data peaks evident in graph '1', and the lower frequency characteristic of signal artifact
   associated with the raw data 'c disturbance signals versus the higher frequency raw data nature
   of the d' artifact signal (per waveform examples (figure 11). The latency-interval parameter
   appears to exhibit unique artifact detection capabilities. In particular, based on these findings,
   the lower frequency data peak (per '         in graph I ) appears to be deemphasised with lower
30 latency-interval parameters (0-15 ms) compared to the higher frequency d' artifact, while the

   Page 29 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   graph-4 higher latency-interval parameters (15-80 ms) in contrast appear to emphasise the
   higher frequency artifact (d) and deemphasised the lower frequency c' artifact. These factors
   have value in the context ofidentifying online event relevant to anaesthesia-monitoring.
   AEP Indicator Fluctuations
 5          AEP noxious stimuli events can represent valuable markers of pain or pain-onset and
   can provide the anaesthetist one of the last lines of defence against awareness.        In particular,
   intraoperative awareness can be accompanied with anaesthesia-induced muscle-suppression,
   preventing purposeful responses from a patient,, even during consciousness states.         Moreover,
   while reports note the superior detection of noxious stimuli using AEP parameters compared to
10 those of continuous EEG, this investigation highlighted the challenge in discriminating between
   signal disturbances and anaesthesia-specific      events such as those associated with noxious
   stimuli.
            The value of non-linear dynamic and conventional amplitude-specific event detection
   has been demonstrated here (figure 12). As a means to examine the event-detection sensitivity
15  during anaesthesia monitoring data peaks corresponding to patient-13 256-sweep AEP-average
   waveforms (figure 12, graphs 4 and 11), and arx 15-sweep averaged scatter-plot (figure 12,
   graph 6 and 14) were examined. As a means to examine the responsiveness to online events the
   comparative ratio of two indicator data peaks (IP) corresponding to the events identified in the
   following patient-13 (per format of figure 11 example) were computed. The earlier data peak
20 is denoted IP 1 and the latter IP2.     Based on observing the quick body movement (BMq)
   classification and raw data characteristics ofIP 1 (per format of figure 11) and IP2 (per format
   of figure 11 example) events, as outlined in the following section, IP 1 and IP2 appear similar
   except IP2 appears to contain a significant low frequency baseline shifi, which may be related
   to movement artifact associated with start of anaesthesia injection, noted around this time.
25 Figure 12:
            Figure 12 presents online event discrimination and delineation between any
   combination ofCNS, PNS, MT, BM, Ar, ArNx, eye-movement, EMG intrusion or burst event
   discrimination and classification. In particular this data plot demonstrates the unique apparatus
   and associated processes to deploy non-linear dynamic AEP analysis transforms to detect and
30 classify a range of online arousal, body movement, physiological and background noise artifact
   disturbances                     relevant                     during                     monitoring.

   Page 30 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
            The non-linear   dynamic process     can include entropy, spectral entropy, time-series
   complexity-analysis, time series spectral complexity analysis or other variants ofthe non-linear
   dynamic transformation. Additionally, the other processes which can be used in conjunction
   with this analysis method include AEP time-interval dependent transforms, integration, power,
 5 square root or direct AEP amplitude computations.
            AEP noxious stimuli events can represent valuable markers of pain or pain-onset and
   can provide the anaesthetist one of the last lines of defense against awareness.       In particular,
   intraoperative awareness can be accompanied with anaesthesia-induced muscle-suppression,
   preventing purposeful responses from a patient, even during consciousness states. Moreover,
10 while reports note the superior detection of noxious stimuli using AEP parameters compared to
   those ofcontinuous EEG, this investigation highlighted the challenge in discriminating between
   signal disturbances   and anaesthesia-specific   events such as those associated with noxious
   stimuli.
            The IP 1 and IP2 indicator detection sensitivity are described here in terms ofthe ration
15 between these two event data peaks computed for the most sensitive 256-sweep (Figure 12,
   upper graphs) and 15-sweep (lower graphs) AEP-averages.
   IP2:IPJ256-sweep AEP-average Analysis Types:
            Based on 256-sweep AEP MTA (38 s response) AEP analysis types the most significant
   IP2:IPl ratio was found to be 1.2 (13.1/11.1) resulting from AEPioAs [ave25620-SOmsJ (graph 4),
20 followed by 1.1 resulting from Entropy 1AEPiDAS [ave25615-so msJ (type 11) values (Figure 12,
   top left graphs).
   IPJ:IP2 256-sweep AEP-average Analysis Types:
            Based on 256-sweep AEP MTA (38 s response) AEP analysis types the most significant
   IP 1:1P2 ratio was found to be 1.7 resulting from both Entropy 1AEPioA[ave256;SO-140 msJ (type 15)
25 and EntropyAEPioA[ave256;So-10omsJ (type 14) values (Figure 12, top right graphs).
   IP2:IPJarx 15-sweepAEP Analysis Types:
            Based on arx 15-sweep AEP MTA (2.2 s response) AEP analysis methods the most
   significant IP2:IPl ratio was found to be 1.1 resulting from both AEPiDAS[arx;so-10omsJ (graph 6)
   and EntropylAEPiDA[arxls;so-loomsJ (graph 14) values (Figure 12, lower left graphs).
30 IPJ:IP2Arx15 sweepAEPAnalysis Types:

   Page 31 of53                                                         Substitute Specification - Clean
            Based on arx 15-sweep AEP MTA (2.2 s response) AEP analysis methods the most
   significant IP 1:1P2 ratio was found to be 1.6 resulting from both AEPioAS[arxl5;2o-so msJ (graph 4)
   values and EntropylAEPioAS[arxl5;15-SmrnsJ (graph 3) values (Figure 12, lower right graphs).
   Figure 13:
 5          Figure 13 presents an external noise sensing and cancellation system.
            The noise    cancellation system incorporates circuitry          and   algorithms   capable     of
   eliminating or minimising noise or artifact.
            Artifact routines can identify the specific severity level, interval and classification of
   artifact.
10                 Reduction    or removal     of the effects of unwanted        background physiological
   artifacts including EMG        signal intrusion,   eye-blinks,    EOG     intrusion;   arousals    (various
   neural    and autonomic     categories   to be included), body movements,          movement     time, and
   unwanted PAMR
   signal intrusion can be implemented.
            Based on the deployment of this noise cancellation system the resulting biological
15     monitoring      system    can   tolerate    high    levels   of    electrical,    EMF      and    other
   environmental interference, particularly as it relates to electrosurgical disturbances             and the
   range of movement artifact typical ofthe operating theatre.
            The A&CD        incorporation of an open-ended          "noise-sampling      channel"    can be
   considered as a means to cancel out unwanted signals as illustrated in Figure 13. As outlined
20 in Figure 13 the top block [1] represents the "extraction of external noise disturbance" and
   comprises of an "input signal channel" and/or "open-ended or external noise sensor" input(s).
   The "open-ended or external noise sensor" input and corresponding stage [1] are designed to
   extract cyclic noise such as mains frequencies, RF generation from MRI echo planning stages,
   electrosurgical equipment disturbances or other sources of cyclic and oflen predictable noise
25 characteristics. By extracting the specific unwanted noise signal from the broader input signal
   this can be input to the cancellation stage 121 where the residual extracted noise signal can be
   phase and amplitude adjusted in order to enable the most effective noise cancellation from the
   "electrophysiological input signal" input to block     I4] (extraction of external noise disturbance).
   Block [3] denoted "tracking of residual output) enabled the subsequent block 121 to track any

   Page 32 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
   residual unwanted cyclic noise signals and consequently the noise cancellation within block
    121 can be continuously fine-tuned fro maximal noise cancellation at all times.
   NOISE CANCELLATION;
            The present invention enables synchronisation between one or more external imaging
 5 or monitoring system timing reference signal, interleaving of acquisition (including sample and
   hold timing) whereby data is sampled in a predetermined or dynamically computed manner,
   whereby said interleaving or said acquisition timing can be (but not limited to) adjusted in
   order to enable input signals to be captured at an optimal time when unwanted signal
   disturbances are acquisitioned at a time when unwanted signals are able to be minimised.
10 Interleaving and synchronisation during low-noise high-sample rate data-acquisition:
            Synchronisation between one or more external imaging or monitoring system timing
   reference signal, interleaving of acquisition (including sample and hold timing) whereby data is
   sampled in a predetermined or dynamically computed manner, whereby said interleaving or
   said acquisition timing can be (but not limited to) adjusted in order to enable input signals to be
15 captured at an optimal time when unwanted signal disturbances are acquisitioned at a time
   when unwanted signals are able to be minimised.         While existent systems sample at lower
   sampling rates with lower subsequent lowpass frequency bandwidth characteristics (such as
   5Khz lowpass), and existent systems sample at higher sample-rates (such as 10 Khz or 20
   Khz), and some systems also enable a means to synchronise the timing relationship between
20 the acquisition sampling (sample and hold/acquisition) time and external equipment signals, a
   nub of the present invention is an Apparatus (or method) for monitoring or analysing
   biosignals comprising of any combination of the means (or method) to provide the means or
   steps to adjust/optimise the sychronisation between the Apparatus' acquisition relative timing
   and any external timing systems or timing of a sensed noise source; the interleaving of the
25 timing between the external system or noise source timing and the optimal noise reduction
   trough or timing cycle; or the use ofhigh Apparatus sampling frequencies up to and beyond 20
   Khz samples per second.
   Figure 14
            Figure 14 presents a top level overview ofthe structured approach to sedation, pain and
30 anaesthesia (SPA) monitoring based on the conventional approach

   Page 33 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   Figure 15
           Figure 15 Structured Approach to Effective Sedation, Pain and Anaesthesia (SPA)
   Monitoring (contemporary approach) demonstrating monitoring key outcomes (goals), causal
   mechanisms, together with corresponding underlying measurement markers as they relate to
 5 both discrete and interrelated measurements based on a this invention's contemporary
   approach.
   Figure 16
           Figure 16 presents a top level flow diagram of a structured approach to sedation, pain
   and anaesthesia (SPA) monitoring demonstrating monitoring key outcomes (goals), causal
10 mechanisms, together with corresponding underlying measurement markers as they relate to
   both discrete and interrelated measurements, with deciphering ofmonitored signals to
   ultimately track the essential clinical monitoring objectives and end-points, based on a this
   invention's contemporary approach.
   Figure 17
15         Figure 17 presents a top level flow diagram oftraditional trial and error approaches
   deployed during sedative, pain-suppressor and anaesthetic      drug development or patient
   monitoring are likely to be augmented or replaced with the more specific biomarker assessment
   approaches, capable ofteasing out the independent and interrelated effects, along with
   implicated cognitive/psychological mechanism and measurements, based on a this invention's
20 contemporary approach.
   Table 1:
           Table 1 presents a mapped overview ofthe principal A&CD functional measurement
   requirements applicable to direct and interactive anaesthetic effects.
   A series ofmultivariate analyses is designed to combine the applicable parameters (refer
25 Figure 14 - Figure 17) applicable to the essential online A&CD functional measurement and
   indicator criteria (outlined in subsequent requirement section).
           In general, the combining       analysis   is capable  of capturing   central  (AEP, EEG),
   peripheral   (EMG)     and haemodynamical       information relevant to the goals and essential
   measures of A&CD monitoring:          At least a first continuous and second evoked neurological
30 variable monitored and processed parameters in such a manner that the monitored signals can

   Page 34 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   be dissected into discrete and elementary information constituents, and then reassembled after
   selective emphasis and de-emphasis of the information elements.         The reconstitution of one or
   more signals can be further enhanced using a combining method not limited to a switched
   process but incorporating an arbitration (weighting process) (see also SDA, below)[7; 8]. The
 5 contribution of each original signal information element can be arbitrated in accordance to the
   specific physiological function under ofinterest or under measure.
   A&CD Essential Online FunctionalMeasurement Criteria:
           The A&CD        functional   measures  can monitor    direct  and interrelated anaesthetic
   physiological effects, events, crucial or characteristic anaesthesia periods,       signal quality, a
10 provision for an overall integrated index, and integrated vital sign monitoring as outlined here.
   DirectAnaesthetic Effects:
           The principal measurement functions ofA&CD monitoring can be arranged into 5
   categories comprising of anaesthetic effects, interrelated anaesthetic effects, arousals and
   movement, artifact, and special A&CD features, as outlined in Direct Anaesthetic effects
15     include hypnosis,    amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis       [13; 20], while important
   interrelated effects include those ofanxiolysis and hypnosis, and also immobility and hypnosis.
   InterrelatedAnaestheticEffects:
           Interrelated effects of anaesthesia including intraoperative awareness accompanied by
   anaesthetic muscle suppression or elevated anxiolysis.     During these periods of intraoperative
20  awareness accompanied by either anaesthetic       induced muscle paralysis       or elevated stress/
   anxiolysis the patient can be hyper-sensitive to the laying of long-term memories, leading to
   adverse health sequelae such as post trauma stress disorder. These functions are described
   elsewhere under central-peripheral-vital sign balance (CPVB) and intraoperative-recall risk
   factor (IRf) requirements (see also ofFigure 6).
25          The computation of conventional facial EMG power, combined with discrete masseter
   EMG     and PAMR measures          can be computed    and registered as an EMG power/muscle
   suppression index (MSi) as shown in the lower right panel ofFigure 6).
   A&CD ImportantEventsIncludingArousals,Body Movements, Movement Time and
   Aripcts:

   Page 35 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   0            Arousals and movement detections include arousals (total group), cortical arousals,
   microarousals, noxious stimuli arousals (anaesthesia-specific)        body movements, movement
   time.
   -        Artifact detection and indicators can be enabled for EOG signal contamination, eye
 5 movements, 50/60 cycle or related interference, electrosurgical disturbances and EMG bursts
   (EMGi) [15; 24]. All signal dropout periods can be indicated.
   CrucialAnaesthesia Periods andlmportantMeasurementCharacteristics:
            Special A&CD feature identification and indications encompass pharmacodynamic
   tracking, signal quality estimation measures, periods of iso-electric cortical silence and near
10    silence, burst suppression periods, wake disturbance periods, gamma power as a measure
   of consciousness state, neural source estimation as a measure ofA&CD anteriorisation [33].
   -          The most critical arousals, artifact and special feature occurrences (such as markers of
   anaesthesia intraoperative awareness or pain/noxious stimuli) can be tracked and both indicated
   as an event but also as an index value. The index values can indicate relevant rates of such
15  events based on an appropriate time base such as 30 s or 1 minute. These events include
   artifact   in general,   and specifically    EOG,   eye-movements,     50/60 Hz cycle or related
   interference, electrosurgical disturbances, and EMG bursts or wake periods (EMGi) [15; 24].
   An example of the event detection and an overall arousal index is presented in the lower section
   oftrending section of figure 6).
20 Signal Quality Measures:
   -        In terms of signal quality an overall measure can be displayed at all times (per top
   section of figure 6) along with individual input channels signal connection and quality status as
   presented in lower right section of figure 6.
   A&CDi IntegratedIndex:
25  0          The A&CDi can display an integrated consciousness transition marker, along with an
   intuitive colour display system (per A&CDi; figure 6).        The display can be divided into 100
   bargraph steps, with 5 patient states ranging from wake (A&CDi = 100) through to flat-line
   EEG (A&CDi =0). The A&CDi values ranging from Oto 100 can be divided into 10 segments.
   The highest values correspond to wake state when a patient responds to normal voice, while
30 the next level or 20 bar-graph segments correspond to mild-hypnotic state when the patient

   Page 36 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
    onresponds to a loud voice; nudging or shaking, the next 20 bar-graph segments reflective of
   the general-anaesthesiastate period where the patient is unresponsive to verbal stimulus and
   has a low probability of explicit recall, followed by deep hypnotic state.
   Simultaneous Slow Trending andFastDetection:
 5 '         The display can indicate slower trending (10 s to 20 s) based on longer data smoothing
   requirements     as graduated dosage guidance (main bar-graph display in figure 6), and also fast
   detection and indicator requirements suitable to capture rapid consciousness transitions and
    other fluctuations such as noxious stimuli (see AEP COtx in figure 6).
   Display UserPrompt and Event Logging:
10   -       The display can prompt user in terms of special or relevant signal status alerts such as
    signal quality estimation (SQE), artifact compensation and rejection (AC&R), signal/sensor
   quality indicator and control (SQI&C), automatic identification and channel characterisation
    (AICC), and the status of AEP servo-stimulus control (ASC).         The special alert requirements
   can be displayed as part of the screen indicators and also where appropriate as part of the user
15 prompt notification per example presented at the top of figure 6).
    -        The display can alert the operator in circumstances where special user interventions
    such as pressure-sensitive electrode activation (PSEA; electrode re-hydration and re-abrasion
   requirements), wireless/battery/safety over-ride     (WBSO) and automatic mode determination
    (AMD) may be required. These user prompts can alert the user by way of indication such as
20 presented in the top panel of figure 6 and figure 7 for example.
    -        The user interface screen can enable seamless event entry capability (see also OEM
   requirements) as shown here in the upper screen section figure 6.
     Vital Signs:
    -        The ISA) with integrated reflective plethysmography-waveform oximetry (refer also
25  IRPO) and the optional provision for airflow sensing can enable continuous monitoring and
    display of a range of vital sign variables (figure 6, right).     These variables include oxygen
    saturation, heart rate and variability derived from the plethysmography waveform.
    -         The ECG signal can be derived from the existent ISA surface electrode           signals or
    supplementary         ECG       special-purpose     ECG       electrode(s    ),     if     required.

    Page 37 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
    -       Pulse arterial tone (PAT) can be derived from the pulse waveforms, pulse transit time
    (PTT), and PTT -derived autonomic        arousals can be possible using a combination of the
    oximeter and ECG parameters.
    -       The respiration rate can be monitored where the provision         for an airflow sensor is
  5 incorporated within the ISA device.
    -        Blood pressure variation can be derived from the processed ECG and PTT parameters
    along with other plethysmography oximeter output products as a measure of blood pressure
    changes from a predefined running average base-line value (see also IRPO requirements).
    Other A& CD Online Monitoring Considerations:
10   -      Reliability and Consistency:     Measurement validity and consistency can be applicable
    to greater than    95 % of patients     and independent of surgery and anaesthetic drugs         [9].
    Strong inter- and intra-patient consistency, reliability and precision can be evident across large
    broadly stratified population    groups and across a diverse range of anaesthetics        types and
    mixtures.
    Responsiveness to Noxious Stimuli and Other Important Spurious Signals:
15          Fast and accurate measures responsive to noxious stimuli will be required.
    High Tolerance to SignalDisturbances:
            There shall be a high tolerance to signal interference corresponding to electro-surgical
    (ES) intervention enabling continuous       monitoring   and index measures      during ES.     Fast
    recovery from ES intervention and other periods of severe signal interference must be evident,
20   and signal blackout periods can be abolished or minimised. Discrimination between important
    event detections such as the presence ofnoxious stimuli, versus unwanted signal disturbances is
    an essential design consideration.
    Continuous Display ofArtifact Status and Online Response Delay Factor:
            Under extreme monitoring conditions, where the A&CD data smoothing times must be
25   extended to cope with the signal disturbances, appropriate       display indications can alert the
    operator who otherwise       may miss important events and not understand            the change    in
    monitoring conditions.
    Consistent and Fast Online Responsiveness:

   Page 38 of53                                                   Substitute Specification - Clean
           Consistent, fast (<15 s), online response delay and data smoothing characteristics, with
   clear indication ofresponse delays at all times.
   Operator Clutter and Overload Factors:
           In general the system operator can not be overloaded or confused by cluttered or
 5 excessively "busy" displays, but rather must be clearly alerted when required. figure 6 can be
   considered in the context of a researcher interface or diagnostic display mode, but can be
   subjected to comprehensive user feedback a streamlined and suitable routine clinical version is
   deployed.
   AEP click detection (relevant toAEP monitoring):
10         In the case of hybrid monitoring configurations accurate and reliable verification of
   valid AEP responses and the corresponding detection of stimulus connection.
   HierarchicalAnalysisReflective ofAwareness (relevant toAEP monitoring):
           Responsive and accurate discrimination between obligatory ABR sensory, versus Ni
   effect (afferent; Bulter effect) changes, and higher level PCP changes, representative of
15 awareness states, are essential aspects ofthe hierarchical AEP processing.
   Diagnostic-mode Graphic User Interfice:
   -       The A&CD graphic user interface can present the measures as illustrated here in figure
   6.
   -       The top right of panel display can indicate an overall integrated index representation
20  (A&CDi). The top lefi portion ofthe display can activate the "view mode" function, enabling
   a range of useful preconfigured anaesthesia-specific operator complexity levels (OICL) as also
   here in figure 6. More streamlined and simplified A&CD display formats can be provided for
   routine clinical purposes, but these formats are subject to extensive studies involving clinician
   and researcher feedback.
25 Table 2
   Classification of Conventional and Anaesthesia-Specific Online Events
           Based on examining anaesthesia indicator AEP trajectories (pat. n=16) across all
   patients it has been demonstrated that both arx 15-sweep and slower 256-sweep AEP MTA
   indicator values appropriately represent arousal, body movement, and artifact fluctuations,

   Page 39 of 53                                                   Substitute Specification - Clean
   while bispectral index EEG-based measures tend to cancel these rapid changes. In particular,
   anaesthesia-specific events were established based on quick body movements (BMq), quick
   arousals (Arq) and noxious stimuli (Nx) arousals. In terms of noxious stimuli events both body
   movement (NxBM) and cortical (NxC) types were observed, which has implications in terms
 5 of detecting CNS generated markers representative of A&CD reversal effects as opposed to
   signal disturbances generated by clinical staff patient intervention and subsequent movement
   events.   The classification of these events has important implications in terms of capturing
   markers of anaesthesia-specific pain or anaesthesia reversal and consequential intraoperative
   awareness.     While these results implicate the importance of anaesthesia-specific         online
10 monitoring it is also evident that these new online event detection methods can improve not
   only true positive prediction outcomes, but also minimize false negatives and false positives.
            Table 2 summarises the conventional and anaesthesia-specific arousal, artifact and
   movement events based on established (conventional) and anaesthesia -specific (proposed)
   classification methods. The lower section of the table presents a series of proposed online
15 anaesthesia-specific indices.
            The earlier generation anaesthesia monitoring incorporated clinical signs such as pupil
   response, patterns of respiration, quality ofthe pulse and movement augmented by direct
   measurement ofphysiologic endpoints including blood pressure, heart rate and respiratory rate
20 and volume. Further developments lad to the deployment ofpulse oximetry and capnography,
   enabling precise assessment ofthe ventilatory system while a patient underwent anaesthesia
   Additionally, the use of end-tidal agent analysis and the stimulation ofperipheral nerve enables
   the anaesthetist to measure pharmacologic agent concentration and effect In more recent times
   cardiac function can be assessed during anaesthesia using pulmonary artery catheters and
25 transesophageal echocardiography to enable continuous blood pressure and cardiac output
   monitoring. Moreover, the latest developments provide neurophysiological monitoring ofthe
   central nervous system enabling a direct measure ofbrain status during anaesthesia and
   sedation, and enable an even finer perioperative dosage control. However, while it has been
   recognised that more accurate monitoring ofbrain effect in combination with traditional
30 monitoring can provide a more complete approach to the optimal adjustment of anaesthesia,
   sedatives and analgesic agents published studies now articulate some ofthe earliest evidence
   demonstrating the benefits ofcorrelating and combining some specific physiological

   Page 40 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
   dimensions and tracking more specific anaesthesia-effects and events. The ISA device and
   subsequent processing devices and algorithms covered by this PCT outline a series ofthese
   new developments in the form of a number of new patent claims as detailed in claim section.
 5 CLAIM SERIES 1: INTEGRATED SENSOR ATTACHMENT DEVICE
           The P' series of subsequent diagnostic device claims per claim section relate to a
   patient-applied integrated sensor attachment (ISA) device for the assessment of an individual's
   psychological and/or physiological state during anaesthesia, sedation, or meditation or un
   meditated states, comprising sensors integrated into a single flexible substrate and the sensors
10 include at least one electrophysiological evoked or continuous electroencephalography (EEG)
   monitoring sensor, at least one electromyography (EMG) monitoring sensor segregated from
   EEG signal regions, including the electrode sensor registrations located over the masseter
   and/or postauricular regions, and the provision for an integrated vital sign monitoring sensor,
   as a means to track 2 or more 2 or more physiological groups ofparameters applicable to
15 hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, axiolysis and vital sign changes.
   CLAIM SERIES 2: INTEGRATED SENSOR ATTACHMENT METHOD
           The  2nd series of subsequent diagnosticprocess per claim section relate to a patient.
   applied integrated sensor attachment (ISA) for the assessment of an individual's psychological
20  and/or physiological state during anaesthesia, sedation, or meditation or un-meditated states,
   comprising sensors integrated into a single flexible substrate and the sensors include at least
   one electrophysiological evoked or continuous electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring
   process, at least one electromyography (EMG) monitoring process segregated from EEG signal
   processes, including masseter processes and/or postauricular processes, and the provision for
25 an integrated vital sign monitoring process, as a means to track 2 or more 2 or more
   physiological groups ofparameters applicable to hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility,
   axiolysis and vital sign changes.
   CLAIM SERIES 3: PREAMPLIFIER DEVICE

   Page 41 of53                                                    Substitute Specification - Clean
           The  3rd series of diagnostic device claims listed in claim section relate to a compact
   patient interface device (module) designed to provide interconnection between the said
   "patient-applied" ISA device, enabling multidimensional       (parameters include two or more
   hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions) processing, measurement, and
 5 associated system display functions. (ie device claims for electronic interface module between
   ISA and processing unit)
   CLAIM SERIES 4: PREAMPLIFIER METHOD
           The  4th series of diagnostic method claims listed in claim section relate to a patient
10  preampifier signal processing methods including adaptable input electrosurgical filtering
   processes, processes enabling interlinking between online detection of electrode connections,
   signal quality, and close proximity LED or other display indicators intuitively signaling system
   user's need to attend to electrode or sensor attachment or patient top sensor attachments
   systems (such as but not limited to activation ofpressure regelling and/or re-abrasion pressure
15 pads or direct movement and/or pressure to electrode or sensors to optimise signal monitoring),
   etc (INCLUDES SPECIAL PREAMPLIFIER METHODS SUCH AS ADAPTABLE INPUT
   ELECTROSURGICAL INPUT FILTERS, ETC)
   CLAIM      SERIES     5: ER HIERACHICAL/MULIDIMENSIONAL                    PSYCHOLOGICAL
20 AND PHYSIOLOGICAL MONITORING DEVICE
           The S      series of diagnostic device claims listed in claim section relate to a
   hierarchical evoked response analysis system          including parts designed to disassemble
   composite AEP signals into the different functional information channels representative ofthe
   lower level ABR sensory responses, the NI markers indicative of the arrival of the stimulus
25 through the cochlear and auditory nerves to the cerebral cortex (such as NI presence), the
   afferent neural responses (such as NI-effect), elevated N1-P2 amplitudes corresponding to
   increased refractory period (inter-stimulus interval; ISI), MLAEP amplitude-latency changes
   with deeper anaesthesia, through to the processing contingent potentials (PCP) indicative ofthe
   higher order attention states indicative ofthe laying down of longer term memories implicated
30 during intraoperative recall.

   Page 42 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
            Neurophysiological responses evoked during anaesthesia and/or consciousness depth,
   sedation or other activities result from ensembles of signals generated from underlying non
   linear synaptic actions.       However, while these resulting neurophysiological responses are
   assembled and then segregated in accordance to their psychological and physiological origins,
 5 they have mainly been dealt with in an overall or blunted manner.
            For example, adverse anaesthesia       sequelae such as intraoperative awareness and
   associated post traumatic stress disorder recall remain a primary risk, along with the inability to
   administer anaesthesia in cases where the small margin of safe deployment is too risky in
   trauma cases, where cardiac or respiratory function are already stressed.
10           Therefore the present invention is designed to overcome such limitations by monitoring
   an individual's physiological and psychological parameters in such a way that the user is able
   to track the essential events and conditions relevant to changes within the sensory, central
   nervous, and other peripheral and vital sign systems applicable to the safe medical procedures
   and deployment of mind or physiological altering therapeutics. In particular, the conventional
15 discrete and not integrated measures ofA&CD are enhanced with more specific markers and
   measures ofboth the independent and integrated correlates applicable to A&CD monitoring.
            The series of diagnostic device claims listed in claim section relate to a hierarchical
   evoked response analysis system including parts designed to disassemble composite AEP
   signals into the different functional information channels representative ofthe lower level ABR
20 sensory responses, the NI markers indicative ofthe arrival of the stimulus through the cochlear
   and auditory nerves to the cerebral cortex (such as N I presence), the afferent neural responses
   (such as NI-effect), elevated N1-P2 amplitudes corresponding to increased refractory period
   (inter-stimulus interval; ISI), MLAEP amplitude-latency changes with deeper anaesthesia,
   through to the processing contingent potentials (PCP) indicative ofthe higher order attention
25 states indicative ofthe laying down oflonger term memories implicated during intraoperative
   recall.
            Neurophysiological responses evoked during anaesthesia and/or consciousness depth,
   sedation or other activities result from ensembles of signals generated from underlying non
   linear synaptic actions. However, while these resulting neurophysiological responses are
30 assembled and then segregated in accordance to their psychological and physiological origins,
   they have mainly been dealt with in an overall or blunted manner.

   Page 43 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
           For example, adverse anaesthesia sequelae such as intraoperative awareness and
   associated post traumatic stress disorder recall remain a primary risk, along with the inability to
   administer anaesthesia in cases where the small margin of safe deployment is too risky in
   trauma cases, where cardiac or respiratory function are already stressed.
 5         Therefore the present invention is designed to overcome such limitations by monitoring
   an individual's physiological and psychological parameters in such a way that the user is able
   to track the essential events and conditions relevant to changes within the sensory, central
   nervous, and other peripheral and vital sign systems applicable to the safe medical procedures
   and deployment ofmind or physiological altering therapeutics. In particular, the conventional
10 discrete and not integrated measures ofA&CD are enhanced with more specific markers and
   measures ofboth the independent and integrated correlates applicable to A&CD monitoring.
           The eleventh series ofdiagnostic method claims listed in claim section relate to a
   hierarchicalevoked response analysisprocesses (read in the context ofthe above device claim
   series) designed to disassemble composite AEP signals into the different functional
15 information channels representative ofthe lower level ABR sensory responses, the NI markers
   indicative ofthe arrival ofthe stimulus through the cochlear and auditory nerves to the cerebral
   cortex (such as NI presence), the afferent neural responses (such as NI-effect), elevated N1-P2
   amplitudes corresponding to increased refractory period (inter-stimulus interval; ISI), MLAEP
   amplitude-latency changes with deeper anaesthesia, through to the processing contingent
20 potentials (PCP) indicative of the higher order attention states indicative ofthe laying down of
   longer term memories implicated during intraoperative recall.
   CLAIM SERIES 6: ER HIERACHICAL/MULIDIMENSIONAL                               PSYCHOLOGICAL
   AND PHYSIOLOGICAL MONITORING METHOD
25         The 6'h series of diagnostic method claims listed m claim section relate to a
   hierarchicalevoked response analysisprocesses (read in the context of the above device claim
   series)   designed to    disassemble   composite   AEP     signals into the different      functional
   information channels representative ofthe lower level ABR sensory responses, the NI markers
   indicative ofthe arrival ofthe stimulus through the cochlear and auditory nerves to the cerebral
30 cortex (such as NI presence), the afferent neural responses (such as NI-effect), elevated N1-P2
   amplitudes corresponding to increased refractory period (inter-stimulus interval; ISI), MLAEP

    Page 44 of53                                                    Substitute Specification - Clean
    amplitude-latency changes     with deeper anaesthesia, through     to the processing    contingent
    potentials (PCP) indicative of the higher order attention states indicative ofthe laying down of
    longer term memories implicated during intraoperative recall.
  5 CLAIM SERIES 7: ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE SENSING AND CANCELLATION
    (ENS&C) BIOLOGICAL MONITORING DEVICE
            Title: Environmental noise sensing and cancellation (ENS&C) system.
            The 6'h series ofclaims listed here relate to an environmental noise sensing and
    cancellation (ENS&C) system incorporating a noise sensing input and/or other signal input
10  whereby the unwanted noise within a biological monitoring environment can be senses or
    monitored and then be processed in such a way as to enable unwanted noise to be cancelled out
    from signals of interest.
    CLAIM SERIES 8: ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE SENSING AND CANCELLATION
15  (ENS&C) BIOLOGICAL MONITORING SYSTEM METHOD
    Abstract:
    CLAIM SERIES 9: SPECTRAL STIMULUS VALIDATION SYSTEM DEVICE
20  CLAIM SERIES 10: SPECTRAL STIMULUS VALIDATION METHOD
    CLAIM SERIES 11: SPECTRAL NOISE AND DISTORTION TRACKING AND
    DYNAMICALLY LINKED SIGNAL PROCESSING DEVICE
25  CLAIM SERIES 12: SPECTRAL NOISE AND DISTORTION TRACKING AND
    DYNAMICALLY LINKED SIGNAL PROCESSING METHOD

   Page 45 of53                                                    Substitute Specification - Clean
   CLAIM SERIES 13: ADAPTABLE APERATURE ACQUISITION SYSTEM DEVICE
   Title: Adaptable Acquisition Aperture (AAA) system.
           The 13th series oQfclaims deals with an adaptable acquisition aperture (AAA) biological
   monitoring apparatus enabling minimization ofunwanted environmental or external system
 5 noise, by way of automatic, manual or computer-assisted data acquisition sample and hold
   aperture adjustment. In particular, the sample and hold aperture window can be adjusted in
   such a manner that the input signal is captured at successive points in time which are
   synchronized and positioned to sample and hold the input signal between cyclic noise peaks.
   Consequently the AAA system can interleaves the aperture window between unwanted cyclic
10 external noise peaks in order to minimize the corresponding interference effects within signals
   of interest.
   CLAIM SERIES 14: ADAPTABLE APERATURE ACQUISITION METHOD
15 CLAIM SERIES 15: EARLIER VERSION ISA PATENT CLAIM GROUP: A&CD
   BIOLOGICAL AWARENESS MONITORING SYSTEM DEVICE
   CLAIM SERIES 16: EARLIER VERSION ISA PATENT CLAIM GROUP: A&CD
   BIOLOGICAL AWARENESS MONITORING SYSTEM DEVICE
20         EARLIER CLAIM VERSION PATENT CLAIM GROUP 3: INTRA OPERATIVE
   RECALL SUSCEPTIBILITY MEASURES. CURRENT CLAIMS INCLUDE ER
   HIERACHICAL /MULIDIMENSIONAL PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL
   MONITORING DEVICE CLAIM GROUP.
25 CLAIM SERIES 17: BIOLOGICAL MONITORING SYSTEM COMBINATIONAL
   ANALYSIS METHOD
           The J 7TH   series of diagnostic method claims listed in claim section relate to the
   method associated with processing incorporating means of extracting individual measures and
   combinational measures corresponding to multidimensional (parameters include two or more

   Page 46 of53                                                       Substitute Specification - Clean
   hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions) processing (computational
   algorithms) and display (raw data and various derived indices) functions.
   CLAIM SERIES 18: EARLIER VERSION (A&OC&OD MONITORING SYSTEM
 5 COMBINATIONAL ANALYSIS METHOD
   CLAIM SERIES 19: EARLIER VERSION (A&OC&OD MONITORING & DRUG
   DELIVERY DEVICE
            The 19th series of drug delivery device claims listed in claim section relate to the device
10     associated   with   the   online   determination    of   the   optimal    combination    of  drug
   delivery compounds       corresponding to multidimensional       (parameters include two or more
   hypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions) parameters derived from the
   said   " device",   "diagnostic    method",        and    "diagnostic     design"   claims   covering
   diagnostic monitoring, processing        (computational  algorithms)    and display (raw data and
   various derived
15   indices) functions.   (ie device claims for drug delivery bio-feedback system corresponding to
   deployment of any of described ISA device, ISA design, patient-interface device, patient
   interface method, and/or A&CD monitoring method as a means of contributing to the mixing
   and delivery rates of anaesthetic compounds (anaesthetic compounds responsible for A&CD
   effects including those ofhypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions).
20
   CLAIM SERIES 20: EARLIER VERSION (A&OC&OD MONITORING & DRUG
   DELIVERY METHOD
            The 20th series of drug delivery method claims listed in claim section relate to the
   method associated with the online determination of the optimal combination of drug delivery
25  compounds corresponding to multidimensional          (parameters include two or more hypnosis,
   amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions) parameters derived from the said "
   device",   "diagnostic    method",      and  "diagnostic   design"    claims   covering     diagnostic
   monitoring, processing (computational algorithms) and display (raw data and various derived
   indices) functions.   (ie device claims for drug delivery bio-feedback system corresponding to
30 deployment of any of described ISA device, ISA design, patient-interface device, patient-

   Page 47 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
   interface method, and/or A&CD monitoring method as a means of contributing to the mixing
   and delivery rates of anaesthetic compounds (anaesthetic compounds responsible for A&CD
   effects including those ofhypnosis, amnesia, analgesia, immobility, anxiolysis functions).
 5 CLAIM SERIES 21: NEURAL             SOURCE ESTIMATED (NSE) A&CD MONITORING
   FOR ANTERIORISATION OR DIFFERENCE IN FRONTAL VERSUS                                OCCIPITAL
   LOBE ACTIVITY AND/OR             CORRESPONDING CHANGES                  OR SHIFTS IN BRAIN
   ACTIVITY DEVICE.
   Anterior and posterior lobes
10 Anaesthesia and Dementia
            Neurological   diseases   such    as  dementia     present   a   growing    issue    amongst
   anaesthesiologists, especially as the aged population and corresponding prevalence and severity
   of these diseases increases.   Side effects of such diseases include cognitive unbinding [19] or
   reduction in neurological cohesion, and effects such as anteriorisation [34; 34].      Such changes
15 in turn generate shifts in neural topographic       foci, temporal   sequences and more general
   alterations ofthe EEG spectral composition.
            The PSI computation incorporates EEG power, frequency, and phase information
   from anterior-posterior relationships of the brain, in conjunction with coherence between
   bilateral regions
20      Pa has been shown (neuromagnetic recordings) to correlate with activity in the
   supratemporal auditory cortex, while the anterior-posterior plane contributes to changes in
   Pa waveform morphology.
        -   In another study left and right hemispherical EEG monitoring            registrations  were
        recorded using two CSM systems.        Despite reports of lateralisation during anaesthesia,
25      strong EEG correlation was found between the left and right brain hemispheres. Other
        reports have demonstrated poor CSI prediction         of autonomic     or somatic response to
        mcrsion.
                EEG cerebral lateralisation changes known to occur during cognition, sleep and
        waking were investigated by Anderson          and Jakobsson     (2006) during     25 surgically
30      anaesthetised patients  (n=584).   The researchers     recorded brain waves using two CSI

   Page 48 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
        monitors, with each monitor configured to record simultaneously, the left-side and right
        side EEG      electrode registrations simultaneously.       In contrast to reports of brain
        lateralisation during sleep [5; 16; 22; 25], the researchers found very high correlation
        between the left and right hemispherically registered EEG pairs [1].
 5      The 2P' series of drug delivery device claims listed in the proceeding section per claim
   section relate to a device or method for the determination and/or monitoring of subject's
   transitional (biphasic or switch-like) or graduated changes ofpsychological or physiological
   states corresponding to unmedicated, or medicated states of anaesthesia or sedation, and in
   particular the changes applicable to neural source localisation changes or differences
10 (hemispherical/lateralisation or changes between the frontal regions or occipital regions or
   directional shifts of activity associated with these regions. In particular a NSE device or
   method enable hemispherical/lateralization differences or brain activity shifs using as few as 2
   EEG electrodes (such as 2 forehead frontal lobe monitoring electrodes), or frontal to occipital
   (and visa versa) differences or directional shifts brain activity with a few one additional
15 electrode (total of3 electrode including 2 left and right forehead electrodes, fro example. This
   NSE system can be applied to routine ambulatory or clinical applications where the monitoring
   ofbrain changes of this nature can combined with other information to assist in the
   determination of a patient sentient state during anaesthesia, sedation, or un-medicated
   behavioral assessments.
20
   CLAIM SERIES 22: NEURAL SOURCE ESTIMATED (NSE) A&CD MONITORING
   FOR ANTERIORISATION OR DIFFERENCE IN FRONTAL VERSUS OCCIPITAL
   LOBE ACTIVITY AND/OR CORRESPONDING CHANGES                             OR SHIFTS IN BRAIN
   ACTIVITY METHOD.
25
   CLAIM SERIES          35: A STRUCTURED AND HIERACHICAL SYSTEM ENABLING
   INDEPEDENT           AND     SPECIAL-CASE         INTERRELATED           SIGNAL      ENSEMBLES
   APPLICABLE TO SEDATION,                 PAIN AND/OR ANAESTEHSIA MONITORING TO
   BE     SEGREGATED           INTO     THE     ESSENTIAL        BIO MARKER        INFORMATION
30 CHANNELS           ACCORDING           TO    UNDERLYING              PHYSIOLOGICAL            AND
   CONGNITIVE/PSYCHOLOGICAL MECHANISMS.

   Page 49 of53                                                  Substitute Specification - Clean
    Whereby the SPA goals include (but not limited to):
    1. Hypnosis,
   2. Amnesia,
   3. Analgesia,
 5 4. Immobility,
   5. Sedation, and
   6. Safe and stable physiological and cognitive function.
    Whereby the underlying SPA physiologicaland cognitive/psychologicalmechanisms include
10 (but not limited to):
    1. Hypnosis: central nervous system (CNS); cognitive functions, psychological functions
   2. Amnesia: autonomic nervous system; other physiologic control systems including central
   integrative (mainly learning, memory, and possible laterality of brain function), endocrine
   control mechanisms; adrenal glands (hormones such as Epinephrine/a.k.a adrenaline is a
15 hormone and neurotransmitter, implicated during stress and related memory consolidation).
   3. Analgesia: central nervous system (CNS), peripheral nervous system,
   4. Immobility: peripheral nervous system, motor systems, muscle systems;
   5. Sedation: sensory system;
   6. Safe and stable physiological and cognitive function: Integrative Organ Functions (most
20 SPA monitoring) including muscle, heart; circulation, respiration, pulmonary circulation, gas
   exchange, and control ofbreathing, regulation ofbody temperature.
    Whereby the SPA monitoringbiomarkers include (but are not limited to):
    1. Hypnosis: evoked potential (EP) and continuous EEG signals.
   2. Amnesia: evoked and continuous EEG signals in conjunction with vital sign signals
25 indicative of a release of hormones and neurotransmitters, marked by elevated vital sign
   measures and the risk of intraoperative recall memory consolidation.

   Page 50 of53                                                     Substitute Specification - Clean
   3. Analgesia: can be marked by graded or spontaneous changes in EP and/or continuous EEG
   resulting from nerve impulses arriving at the central nervous system (spine or brain).
   4. Immobility: can be marked by graded or spontaneous changes in PAMR and/or continuous
   EMG resulting from changes in muscle tonicity or activity.
 5 5. Sedation:   Can be marked by base-line versus graded or spontaneous elevation of vital sign
   and other physiological measures.
   6. Safe and stable physiological and cognitive function: Can be marked by safe, operational
   modes ofvital sign, physiological cognitive measures.
10  Whereby special case SPA        monitored biomarker interrelationships include (but are not
   limited to):
    1.       Hypnosis   accompanied by elevated vital sign and/or other physiological measures.
   This could be a case of mistaken hypnosis        interpretation during pharmaceutically induced
   muscle paralysis, accompanied with intraoperative awareness.
15 2.       Hypnosis   accompanied by elevated measures      of mobility.    This could be a case of
   mistaken hypnosis interpretation during intraoperative awareness.
   3.       Cortical or subcortical arousals accompanied by graded or spontaneous changes in vital
   sign or other physiological changes, indicative of nerve impulses reaching the spinal chord or
   brain and the corresponding release ofhormones and neurotransmitters (a.k.a adrenaline or
20 endorphins) preventing nerve cells from releasing more pain signals, but also contributing to
   vital sign changes (such as of increases in heart rate, contracts blood vessels, dilated air
   passages and other symptoms of intraoperative awareness flight-or-fight drive to the
   sympathetic nervous system) and the burning ofpermanent memories (memory consolidation),
   implicated with intraoperative recall.
25 4.       Monitoring ofgraded or spontaneous brain signal arousals or other changes indicative
   ofnociception (neural processes of encoding and processing noxious stimuli) associated with
   electrosurgical processes, stitches and other surgical stimuli.
   5.       Monitoring ofgraded or spontaneous brain signal arousals or other changes indicative
   ofnociception (neural processes of encoding and processing noxious stimuli) associated with
30 electrosurgical processes, stitches and other surgical stimuli, by way of associating the time

  Page 51 of53                                                      Substitute Specification - Clean
  alignment between these stimuli events and the resulting change in physiological or cognitive
  states ofthe individual under assessment.
  6.      Monitoring ofgraded or spontaneous brain signal arousals or other changes indicative
  ofnociception (neural processes of encoding and processing noxious stimuli) associated with
5 electrosurgical processes, stitches and other surgical stimuli, by way ofassociating the changes
  in EEG signal with graded or spontaneous changes in EMG, indicative ofpain responses.

Page 52 of 53                                                 Substitute Specification - Clean
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATION and NOMECLATURE SUBSTITE
     OAA/S           Observers Assessment of Attention/Sedation
    PTSD             post-traumatic stress disorder
    NMDA             N-Methy -D-aspartate
    UEM              universal electronic module
    WEM              wireless electronic module
    CEM              cable-interfaced electronic module
    PNS              peripheral nervous system
    ICU              intensive care unit
    PVDF             Polyvinyldene fluoride
    DC               direct current
                     index
    APP indecies:
      [5 AEP analysis transforms (unshaded cells) generated by applying the 5 secondary
    transforms (per LHS column dark shaded cells) to the 3 primary transforms
     corresponding to AEP waveform amplitude (A), differentiated amplitude (DA), and
     integrated amplitude (DIA), respectively (AEPA; AEPDA and AEPIA per light shaded
     cells). AEPA; AEPDA and AEPIA are waveform versus the single index (i)
    representations, as summarised here:
                                             AEi             AgRp                Aje
                                                iWFdpgAEPiA   EntropylAElinA     EntropylAENitA
                                             AEN s

                                              53
1.  A biological monitoring or imaging apparatus incorporating means for minimizing
    environmental or external system noise within a biological signal or image of interest,
    the apparatus comprising:
    an input sensing and/or input monitoring or imaging means for cancelling of the noise
    signal within the biological signal;
    means for adjusting the noise characteristics of one or more channels of sensed,
    monitored or imaged noise for producing an optimal noise cancellation signal; and
    means for combining the noise cancellation signal with one or more biological
    signal(s) of interest so that the resulting signal outcome comprises of the biological
    signal or image of interest with the noise signal diminished or eliminated.
 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 whereby the minimization of environmental or
    external system noise includes one or more predictable noise sources comprising:
    imaging systems such as MEG or MRI echo planning RF signals;
    electrosurgical equipment disturbances;
    mains-related noise;
    ECG ballistogram noise; or
    other predictable noise sources.
3.  Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2 whereby the minimization of unwanted
    environmental or external system noise can include one or more non-predictable noise
    sources comprising:
    room air-conditioning EMF, electric or acoustically generated noise signals;
    external electrical equipment EMF, electric or acoustically generated noise signals; or
    other non-predictable noise source.
 4. Apparatus according to any of of claims 1 to 3 whereby the monitoring or sensing or
    imaging of unwanted noise incorporates a sensor located in such a way that unwanted
    noise can be continuously tracked and processed in order to determine the main signal
    characteristics of the noise.
 5.   Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4 further incorporating a sensor
      device located in such a way that noise can be continuously tracked by monitoring
      noise signal characteristics including any one or more of:
      frequency spectrum;
      amplitude;

                                          54
    phase;
    entropy;
    morphology or waveform patterns: or
    filter adapted to recognise any image or signal type or characteristics, and associated
    variation therein.
6.  Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5 whereby cancelling of noise within
    a biological signal or image of interest includes the capability of continuously fine
    tuning the noise or image signal characteristics in order to achieve a maximum
    nulling of the noise frequency and a maximal representation of the biological signals
    or images of interest.
 7. Apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 6 whereby an auto-range gain
    adjustment operates with noise cancellation in such a manner that large noise signal
    or image disturbances are diminished or eliminated without introducing other
    unwanted noise and distortion.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
!

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   " #$% & '( ) *+*,-) $ ,+.& # $ ,+& #
              *- ,&$/0. &/0 / -*,1-*& /   $/* &$2*/-** -.,1 3*.   4 /#
              )$/&,$(&/' -)5$ &)-/,

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  6&                  3&* 4                     7                           !
              ,                  &*                                      8           394:
                   3 ;4:   3<4          8     394        #- 7
                   !
                                                    !"                           #
                                                          $                           %
                                                                             $       %
                                                          %              $           &      %
                                                                =<: 9>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
;)
!

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<,
3
    /
4
7
    3/* 4
!

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  9   ?;         -.
                                        3 4   8 8       -. /#
                                 8 !
                  ' ( #       )* +                      ,
              ,           %      )# )    * +- .     ,       #   ,   %# ) /

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              @.   " -.   *
              A B      A B!
                                          !"   #   $   % & %!'("   )* ++( ,   - . /,   (-   0   12"
              " 3$4#

<removed-date>
              "
              !
              5
              6
              "
              !
<removed-apn>
              5
              6
              "
              !
              5
              67
              "
              !
              5
              68
              "
              !
              5
              "
              !
              5
              "
              !
              5
                7
              "
              !
              5
               8
                       #                           3#& 4
                                       !
                                  .    " --'       8 ?            -.     ; 3"C? 4          9 3<<C
               4!                                    3          4 --'    ; 3"C? 4 -.        ; 3"C?
               4: -. ; 3"C !9 4: -. ;D 3"C<!   4 --'       9 3<<C 4 -.      9 3<<C 4: -. 9
              3<<;!9 4      -. 9D 3<9 ! 4!

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         $
    /* ./* ), 5)
    /8
!
    -)'

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
" -8

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
)
    6 *
E
    -
    *
    .
    3*. 4

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
)
    ?*
E
    -
    *
    .
    3*. 4

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
)
    ;*
E
    -
    *
    .
    3*. 4

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                    < *,(2 ,2(-   ..($   1 ,$ *-   ,&$/ . &/ / 0$(   / -*,1-*&
              )$/&,$(&/'

                                                                                       <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
,
                                                                   ! "#        $ %& ' % %      (       )    +),       "
                                                        *                                                  )-./    $ $ %          0
)    &                                              )    *                                                      "
       1                                            (    ,2 '                                                % 1 3 . % &%1
    4&& # 1                             5                "    5 '.                                               " '     6 $# 1 $
      . 1                   -.&                      57 88 ) 9 7                                           2    ) 579 7 : 88
      . 1     '             -.&                      57 88 ) 9 73                       ! "# $ %& ' 4             ; 5 $ 11 $ /450
                                                      '%$ (    ) *              $   *
    4&& # 1   '                         5                      ! "#            $ %& ' '%$                      6 $9 1 $
                                                     (    ) *     $            *3     "     5 '.
      % 1 . % &%1                       88 )   57    <% $ 6   1& 6 1 $ .                                     % 1 . %        &%1 ;    ' '
      % 1 $ $ 1/    10      88 )         57          <% $ 6 $ .                                              % 1 . %        &%1 ;    ' '
      % 1 %#$ $ 1 /    10   88 )                    2 1& 6 1 $ .                                             % 1$ $1      ;     ' '.
     $    % 1                                        <% $ 6 $ .                                            &$   % 1 ;        ' '.
    9' &;&                                          9 1 6 '    1& 6 1 $ .                                  9' &;&         ;     ' '.
     ;& &                               88          9 1 6 '    1& 6 1 $ .                                    ;& &         ;     ' '.
     -                      -                       ("      <% $    1& 6 1                                 - ;        ' '.
        &;&                     &;&                 ("      <% $    1& 6 1                                     &;&      ;  ' '.
      3 $ $1  1 '           11 $6 1                  <%     $ $ %& 6 6 1'                                  11 $6 1    ;   ' '.
     1 $ % $ 1, %# $        11 $6 1                   6      <% $ $ %& 6 6 1'                              11 $6 1    ;   ' '.
        #%                                          9 1        $                                                ;     ' '.
     6 & $ ' &$ $!                                                 ! "#        $ %& ' '%$                  ,     %'   $
    4 1 $ $$ $ 1 1 $                                2          1& 6 1          !"                          4 1 $ $$   $1 1 $ ;
    *      1 $ $$ $ 1 1 $                           2          1& 6 1          !"                          * 4 1$     $$ $ 1 1 $ ;
    9% %                                            2          1& 6 1          !"                          9% %          '.
7   :! ' %# $       '       11 $6   1                  % 1=     $=      $      1=# ' & ; & =& ; &      &   :! ;
      && ) $, $ &                                   2 $ 1                                                    && "
    *% 12 %$      &                                 2 % $ $ %$                                             ( 1
    2 1 <% 1     %          11 $6   1               4& ' $ = $ % %        $!          1 $6 $       $       2 1 <% 1       ' ./2>0
    2 1'      %             11 $6   1               4& ' $ = $ % %        $!          1 $6 $       $       2 1 <% 1       ' ./2>0

<removed-date>
                                                                 !
                                         "           #                                              ?                       @
                     $                                                   9                          ?     @
                                                                             8                      ?     @
                                 %                                           &                      ?     @/ A                  '%            0
                                                                         $                          ?                                 @
                     #                       &                       '                              ?                                 @
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                    ?     @
                                                                 %#                        !
                     (   )               #
                     (   )                                               *.                         * "                6                  $ $ ;
                     (   )                                                 *.                       * "                 6                  $ $ ;
                     &               '
                     (   )                                               $       *.                 * "                6                  $       $ ;
                     ( )                                 %                       *.                 * "                6                  $       $ ;               ?                             @
                     ( )                                                 9       *.                 * "                6                  $       $ ;
                     *                                   %                                          ) &#          $ ;                                   1           '           6             $ $
                                                                                                       % 1
                     +       ,                                               <                          $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                          %# % '    % $                             $       %
                     +       ,                                           $       <                      $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                          %# % '    % $                             $       %
                     +       ,                                                   <                      $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                          %# % '    % $                             $       %
                     +       ,                   %                           &<                         $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%    0= 1
                                                                                                     %# % '     % $    $                          %             =       ' $1%'     ;              11
                                                                                                    $    $ 1 ' %#$   $ 1                          ;
                     +       ,                   %                       $       &<                     $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                          %# % '    % $                             $       %
                     +       ,                   %                               &<                     $ ;      1 .$                             / A                   '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                          %# % '    % $                             $       %
                     +       ,                                           9       <                       $     ;                 1 .$   / A                             '%          0       ' 1
                                                                                                              %#       % '          % $   $ %
                                                                                                    4 $1%' $           ;      1 '         6                                     $       $
                                                                                                    '                   ' 11    1 #1 $! %                                     ' A
                                                                                                    8 1 &              $$% ' # $ ;          1                                '            6
                                                                                                       $ $              $ '%    6      $ '                                                '
                                                                                                    /$ ;                1'         $1%'     11                                       1 #1 $! %
                                                                                                         ' A
                                                                     !                    ( )       #                          %      *
                     *                                    %                                         5%       $              11 $ ;      1                                '              6
                                                          )                                            $ $             % 1 '%       $ '                                                 '
                     *                                   %                   $                      5%       $              11 $ ;      1                                 '             6
                                                                                                       $ $ $            $ 1   % 1 '%                                     $ '                           '
                             )
                     *                                   %                                          5%             $                   11 $ ;      1                     '              6
                                                                                                         $ $       %#$               $ 1    % 1 '%                             $ '
                                             )                                                            '
                     *                                   %                   9                      5%             $                       1 $                  $ ;                  1 /9     0        '
                                                                                                    <% $!              6                   $ $ /9               <0 ;            '%           6
                             )                                                                         $ '                                'A
              8 #1       2%&&                        $       ;               1        '         6             $ $ ;

