Abstract
The invention relates to an electrical grid plate including a body with a front face and a
rear face, and a levelling device integrated in the body so that it is visible when the
rear face is positioned against a mounting surface.

                                                1
Improved Electrical Grid Plate
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates to electrical grid plates. Such grid plates are
commonly used to mount light switches and power sockets to a surface.
Background of Invention
[0002]      When mounting grid plates on walls and other surfaces it is desirable that
the plates are correctly orientated. For example, grid plates are typically rectangular
in shape and it is desirable to ensure that the grid plates are orientated level. In order
to ensure level orientation, an installer may use a spirit level to accurately locate a
side face of the grid plate. If a spirit level is not handy or if the shape of the grid plate
does not allow easy use of a spirit level, an installer may set the orientation of the
plate by eye.
[0003]      Screws are typically used to secure the grid plates into position on a wall or
other mounting surface. The screws extend through apertures in the grid plate and it
is not uncommon for the required orientation of the grid plate to be lost during the
screw installation process. This is primarily because it can be awkward to affix
screws of the grid plate into position whilst also holding the spirit level.
Consequently, it is not uncommon to find that the grid plate is not actually level once
secured into its final position and this results in an unsatisfactory final appearance.
[0004]      A number of different products have been developed in an attempt to
ensure that grid plates are properly orientated at the time of installation. For example,
US6003234 and US2016/0146603 describe different levelling devices that can be
mated with apertures formed in the grid plate and retained therein whilst the grid plate
is affixed. In this way, the installer can continue to check the orientation of the grid
plate using the mated levelling device during the installation process. However, such
levelling devices are a little cumbersome and are also disadvantageous as they

                                              2
require the installer to have ready access to a levelling device that will mate with the
particular grid plate being installed.
[0005]      Another approach to addressing the issue of proper orientation of grid
plates has been the development of a levelling tool that is arranged to clip over the
outer face of the grid plate during the installation process in much in the same way as
a standard cover plate. The tool has appropriate apertures to allow access to the
fixing points of the grid plate and a level indicator. Once the grid plate is installed, the
levelling tool is removed. The levelling tool may also be used as a template for ready
marking of the hole that needs to be cut out of the surface to which the grid plate is to
be affixed. As with the previously mentioned prior art arrangements, such a levelling
tool is disadvantageous because the installer must still have an appropriately sized
tool on hand to suit the particular grid plate being installed.
[0006]      The discussion of the background to the invention herein is included to
explain the context of the invention. This is not to be taken as an admission that any
of the material referred to was published, known or part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of this application.
Summary of Invention
[0007]      According to the invention there is provided an electrical grid plate
including a body with a front face and a rear face, and a levelling device integrated
with the body so that it is visible when the rear face is positioned against a mounting
surface.
[0008]      The levelling device is integrated with the body so that it can be retained
with the body without impacting later operational function of the grid plate.
[0009]      According to the present invention there is provided an electrical grid plate
including a body with a front face and a rear face, and a levelling device arranged for
location in the body and further arranged to be visible when said rear face is
positioned against a mounting surface, said levelling device arranged to identify when
a first imaginary line on the body of the grid plate extends in a desired orientation.

                                                3
[0010]       In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the first imaginary
line extends substantially horizontally so that the levelling device identifies when the
grid plate is located level on the mounting surface.
[0011]       In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, the levelling
device is located in the body so that in use when a cover plate is installed over the
grid plate the levelling device is hidden from view.
[0012]       Preferably, the levelling device is located within an aperture or recess
formed in or opening to the front face of the grid plate. The aperture or recess is
preferably located adjacent a peripheral edge of the front face of the grid plate.
[0013]       Preferably, the levelling device is located flush with or below the plane of
the front face of the grid plate. Such an arrangement is advantageous as it allows a
cover plate to be installed onto the grid plate without interference by the levelling
device.
[0014]       Preferably, the levelling device is arranged to be retained within the
aperture or recess by a snap fit arrangement, press fit arrangement, clip arrangement,
or other suitable arrangement. For example, a snap fit arrangement may include at
least one resiliently flexible tongue or detent arranged to hold the levelling device
within the aperture. Alternatively, the levelling device may be adhered in the aperture
or otherwise permanently or non- permanently integrated with the body of the grid
plate.
[0015]       Preferably, the levelling device is fully contained within the bounds of the
aperture or recess.
[0016]       In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the levelling device is
a spirit level, or bubble level, or other level.
[0017]      The level may adopt a variety of different shapes. However, in accordance
with one embodiment of the invention, the level has a body of cylindrical shape. For
example, the cylindrical shaped body may have a diameter of about 5mm and a
length of about 12mm.

                                               4
[0018]      In accordance with a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention,
the level is sized so as to fall within the definition of "small parts" as per Australian
and New Zealand Standards 60695.2 relating to glow wire tests of end-products such
as electrical outlets. Accordingly, the integration of such a level into the body of the
grid plate does not impose additional testing and approval obligations beyond that
which would otherwise apply to such end-products under such Standards.
[0019]      In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the electrical grid
plate includes two levelling devices. The first levelling device is provided to indicate
when the first imaginary line extends substantially horizontally and the second
levelling device is provided to indicate when a second imaginary line on the body
extends substantially vertically.
[0020]      In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, the front face of the
grid plate adopts a generally square or rectangular configuration.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0021]      Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0022]      Figure 1 is a front isometric view of an electrical grid plate for a double
general purpose outlet (GPO) according to a first embodiment of the invention;
[0023]      Figure 2 is a front view of an electrical grid plate of the type shown in
Figure 1;
[0024]      Figure 3 is a rear view of the electrical grid plate shown in Figure 3. The
grid plate is shown fitted with additional components and with a cover plate fitted.
[0025]      Figure 4 is a front isometric view of an electrical grid plate for a four gang
switch according to a second embodiment of the invention;
[0026]      Figure 5 is a front isometric view of an electrical grid plate for a single
switch according to a third embodiment of the invention;

                                                5
[0027]       Figure 6 is a cut-away side view of an electrical grid plate for a single GPO
according to an embodiment of the invention. The grid plate is shown with a cover
plate fitted; and
[0028]       Figure 7 is an isometric view of the grid plate shown in Figure 6.
Detailed Description
[0029]       Embodiments of the invention will hereafter be described with reference to
grid plates for a double GPO, a four gang switch, and a single switch. However, it
should be understood that the invention is not so limited and that the electrical grid
plate may adopt many different forms. For example, it may include different types,
numbers, and combinations of switches, GPOs, USB points, fan controls, sockets,
communication outlets, and controllers. Further, the grid plate may be a blank plate.
It should thus be understood that the term "grid plate" as used herein is intended to
extend to all forms of such plates. The invention may also have applications in other
electrical componentry that is required to be levelled during the installation process
and thus the term "grid plate" should be understood to also include within its scope
such componentry.
[0030]       Figure 1 illustrates an electrical grid plate 10 in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention. The grid plate 10 is for a double GPO including two
power sockets 12 and two switch units 14. The body of the grid plate 10 is thus
formed with sockets 12 and apertures for receiving the switch units 14. The body of
the grid plate 10 has a generally rectangular shaped front face 16 and opposed planar
top and bottom walls 18A, 18B and opposed planar side walls 20A, 20B. Not visible
in Figure 1, but shown in Figure 3, is the rear of the body of the grid plate 10. A
peripheral portion 21 of the rear of the grid plate 10 is positioned against a mounting
surface (e.g. a wall) when the grid plate 10 is installed by the installer.
[0031]       The grid plate 10 also includes a levelling device 22 located in the body
thereof. As depicted, the levelling device 22 is a conventional spirit level 22 having a
body of cylindrical shape. The body of the spirit level 22 is marked with a pair of lines
and the spirit level 22 signals level when the bubble in the fluid within the body is
located evenly between the lines.

                                                6
[0032]       The spirit level 22 is located within an aperture 24 formed in the body of the
grid plate 10. The aperture 24 opens through the front face 16 so that the bubble and
the pair of lines of the spirit level 22 can be viewed by the installer during the
installation process. As depicted, in this embodiment, the aperture 24 and thus the
spirit level 22 is located adjacent the peripheral edge of the front face (i.e. adjacent
the top wall 18A).
[0033]       The spirit level 22 is held within the aperture 24 by a pair of resiliently
deflectable tongues 26. The tongues 26 extend upwardly from the base of the
aperture 24 in the direction of the front face 16 and are spaced longitudinally across
the width direction of the grid plate 10 as viewed in Figure 1.
[0034]       The tongues 26 are arranged so that the spirit level 22 can be pressed into
the aperture 24 below the tongues 26 in a manner that causes the outermost end of
each tongue 26 to move in the opposite direction allowing the spirit level 22 to be
pushed past the tongues 26 to enter the aperture 24. Once the spirit level 22 is within
the aperture 24, the tongues 26 return to their original position and act to retain the
spirit level 22 within the aperture 24. Accordingly, the spirit level 22 is integrated with
the body of the grid plate 10
[0035]       The aperture 24 for receiving the spirit level 22 is configured so as to be
only slightly larger than the spirit level 22. It will also be noted that when the spirit
level 22 is positioned within the aperture 24, the body of the spirit level 22 and the
tongues 26 are located substantially level with or below the plane of the front face 16
of the grid plate 10. This ensures that the spirit level 22 and tongues 26 do not cause
any interference with a cover plate 200 (see Figures 3, 6 and 7) later clipped onto the
grid plate 10 and thus it is not necessary to remove the spirit level 22 from the
aperture 24 prior to fitting the cover. It is envisaged that such a cover plate would be
configured to hide the spirit level 22 once fitted to the grid plate 10.
[0036]       Figure 3 illustrates the rear face 24B of the base 24A of the aperture 24. It
will be noted that the rear face 24B of the aperture 24 is flush with the peripheral
portion 21 of the rear of the grid plate 10. Accordingly, in use the rear face 24B of the
base 24A will typically sit flush against the mounting surface.

                                                7
[0037]       The grid plate 10 will be affixed to the mounting surface with screws in the
normal manner well known to those skilled in the art. However, it is no longer
necessary to hold a separate levelling device against the top wall 18A, bottom wall
18B or opposed side walls 20A, 20B of the grid plate 10 during the installation
process to ensure that the grid plate 10 is affixed level. Rather, the installer can
simply use the spirit level 22 incorporated into the grid plate 10 in accordance with
normal methodology to check and adjust the orientation of the grid plate 10. This
makes the installation process much easier.
[0038]       Another advantage in having the spirit level 22 integrated into the grid plate
10 is that it eliminates the need for an installer to set the orientation of the grid plate
10 by eye in situations where an external levelling device is not handy and the
installer is reluctant to waste further time seeking one out. Instead, the installer will
easily become reliant on using the integrated spirit level 22 in such grid plates 10 and
this will result in improved installation appearance.
[0039]       Although the Figures show the use of two tongues 26 to retain the spirit
level 22 within the aperture 24, this need not be the case. A single tongue 26 may be
used and other arrangements for securing the spirit level 22 to the grid plate 10 are
included within the scope of the present invention.
[0040]       Figure 4 illustrates a grid plate 50 for a four gang switch. It will be noted
that the grid plate 50 includes a first spirit level 52 and a second spirit level 54. Spirit
level 52 is mounted and located within the grid plate 50 in a manner similar to that
discussed in relation to the spirit level 22 shown in Figures 1 to 3. The second spirit
level 54 is located adjacent to the first spirit level 52 but it will be appreciated that it is
orientated perpendicular thereto. Accordingly, the installer can use either of the first
or second spirit levels 52, 54 to level the grid plate 50. Those skilled in the art will
appreciate that installers routinely change the orientation of grid plates to meet
installation requirements by removing the switch units which press fit into the
apertures of the grid plate and re-fitting them at 900 rotation. Accordingly, for example,
the grid plate 50 could be orientated as shown in Figure 4 with the longer side running
vertically or rotated by 900 so that the longer side runs horizontally.

                                                 8
[0041]        Figure 5 illustrates a grid plate 100 for a single switch. It will be noted that
the grid plate 100 includes a first spirit level 102 and a second spirit level 104. Spirit
level 102 is mounted and located within the grid plate 100 in a manner similar to that
discussed in relation to the spirit level 22 shown in Figures 1 to 3 and the spirit level
52 shown in Figure 4. The second spirit level 104 is located distal to the first spirit
level 102 and extends perpendicular thereto. Both the first and second spirit levels
102, 104 are located adjacent the peripheral edge of the front face (i.e. adjacent the
side wall 11 8A as shown in Figure 5).
[0042]        Figures 6 and 7 illustrate a grid plate 150 for a single GPO fitted with a
cover plate 200. The Figures have been cut-away so that the internally integrated
spirit level 152 is visible. As clearly shown in these Figures, the spirit level 152 is
integrated in the body of the grid plate 150 by locating the spirit level 152 in aperture
154. The spirit level 152 is located within the aperture 154 so that it sits flush with the
front face 156 of the grid plate 150. This ensures that a cover plate 200 can be fitted
onto the grid plate 200 without interference by the spirit level 152. When the cover
plate 200 is fitted to the grid plate 150, the spirit level 152 is not visible.
[0043]        It should be understood that the present invention has application in any
type of electrical grid plate where it is desirable for the installer to be able to affix the
grid plate in a particular orientation. For example, with a square or rectangular grid
plate, it is typically desirable to ensure that the grid plate is mounted to the mounting
surface so that a top wall of the grid plate extends horizontally. However, use of the
invention with other shaped grid plates is envisaged and thus the invention may be
used to ensure that a face of the grid plate is mounted in a predetermined orientation
other than horizontal or vertical.
[0044]        Each of the grid plates 10, 50, 100, 150 previously described herein have a
conventional generally rectangular shape. Conventional installation of such grid
plates 10, 50, 100, 150 requires the top and bottom walls of the grid plate to extend
substantially horizontally and thus the opposed side walls will extend vertically. When
the grid plate is affixed in such an orientation it is described as being installed "level".
However, if the grid plate was to adopt another shape, for example a non-regular
shape, or if it was a requirement to affix a conventional shaped grid plate in an
orientation other than "level", then such arrangements would still fall within the scope

                                              9
of embodiments of the present invention. For example, if it was a requirement to affix
conventional shaped grid plates in an orientation other than "level" then when
manufacturing such grid plates the aperture for holding the spirit level would be
repositioned so that the spirit level would indicate when a first imaginary line on the
body of the grid plate extends in a desired orientation. The first imaginary line would
run parallel to or coaxially with the require orientation of the grid plate.
[0045]     The embodiments have been described by way of example only and
modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention are envisaged.

                                             10
Claims
1. An electrical grid plate including a body with a front face and a rear face, and a
   levelling device integrated with the body so that it is visible when the rear face is
   positioned against a mounting surface.
2. An electrical grid plate including a body with a front face and a rear face, and a
   levelling device arranged for location in the body and further arranged to be visible
   when said rear face is positioned against a mounting surface, said levelling device
   arranged to identify when a first imaginary line on the body of the grid plate
   extends in a desired orientation.
3. An electrical grid plate according to claim 2 wherein the first imaginary line
   extends substantially horizontally so that the levelling device identifies when the
   grid plate is located level on the mounting surface.
4. An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   levelling device is located in the body so that in use when a cover plate is installed
   over the grid plate the levelling device is hidden from view.
5. An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   levelling device is located within an aperture or recess formed in or opening to the
   front face of the grid plate.
6. An electrical grid plate according to claim 5 wherein the aperture or recess is
   located adjacent to a peripheral edge of the front face of the grid plate.
7. An electrical grid plate according to claim 2 wherein the levelling device is
   arranged to be retained within the aperture or recess by a snap fit arrangement,
   press fit arrangement, glue or other arrangement.
8. An electrical grid plate according to claim 7 wherein the retaining arrangement
   includes at least one resiliently flexible tongue or detent arranged to hold the
   levelling device within the aperture.
9. An electrical grid plate according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the levelling device
   is fully contained within the bounds of the aperture or recess.

                                              11
10.An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   levelling device is a spirit level, or bubble level, or other level.
11.An electrical grid plate according to claim 10 wherein the levelling device is a spirit
   level having a body of cylindrical shape.
12.An electrical grid plate according to claim 11 wherein the cylindrical shaped body
   has a diameter of about 5mm and a length of about 12mm.
13.An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   levelling device falls within the definition of "small parts" as per Australian and New
   Zealand Standards 60695.2 relating to glow wire tests of end-products such as
   electrical outlets.
14.An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims including two
   levelling devices.
15.An electrical grid plate according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   levelling device is permanently or non-permanently integrated with the body of the
   grid plate.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
