ABSTRACT
Durable asymmetric composite membranes consisting of a film of cross-linked
poly(ether ether ketone) adhered to a sheet of hydrophilic microporous
poly(ethylene) are disclosed. The membranes are suitable for use in the
recovery or removal of water from feed streams where repeated clean-in-place
protocols are required such as in the processing of dairy products.
                                      33

                            ASYMMETRIC COMPOSITE MEMBRANES
                  AND MODIFIED SUBSTRATES USED IN THEIR PREPARATION
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The invention relates in part to modifying the chemical and physical
 5 properties of microporous polyolefin substrates. The invention further
   relates to asymmetric composite membranes prepared using these modified
   substrates. In particular, the invention relates to the use of modified
   microporous polyethylene sheets in the preparation of durable asymmetric
   composite membranes for use in the removal of water from dairy feed streams.
 0 BACKGROUND ART
   It is well-known to use photografting to modify the surface of films, sheets
   and molded objects formed from polyolefins. For example, the publication of
   Tazuke and Kimura  (1978) discloses photografting onto poly(propylene),
   poly(ethylene) and several other polymer films using benzophenone as a
 5 sensitizer. In this publication the choice of solvent and sensitizer was
   noted to be very important. The publication of Ang et al      (1980) discloses an
   irradiation procedure where the sensitizer is dissolved in the
   hydrophilicitizing agent solution and can be used for the photosensitized
   copolymerization in high yields of styrene, 4-vinyl pyridine and methyl
 0 methacrylate to poly(propylene). Again, this publication notes that the
   reaction was found to be very specific to certain types of sensitizers.
   The publication of Ogiwara et al    (1981) discloses the photografting on
   poly(propylene) and low-density poly(ethylene)     (LDPE) films on which
   sensitizers were coated beforehand. The sensitizers coated on films enabled
 5 vinyl hydrophilicitizing agents, such as methyl methacrylate, acrylic acid
   and methacrylic acid to graft easily with high yields. The hydrophilic
   hydrophilicitizing agents acrylic acid and methacrylic acid were conveniently
   grafted using them in aqueous solution in a liquid phase system. The
   publication of Allmer et al   (1988) discloses the modification of surfaces of
30 LDPE, high-density poly(ethylene)    (HDPE) and polystyrene by grafting with
   acrylic acid. The grafting is performed in the vapor-phase and increased the
   wettability of the polymer. It was observed that acetone was able to initiate
   grafting and was found to promote and direct grafting to the surface.       The
   publication of Allmer et al   (1989) discloses the grafting of the surface of
35 LDPE with glycidyl acrylate and glycidyl methacrylate by photoinitiation.
   Acetone and ethanol were used as solvents, with acetone yielding slightly
   more grafting at the surface.
                                             1

   The publications of Yao and Ranby    (1990a, 1990b and 1990c) disclose inter
   alia a process for the continuous photoinitiated graft copolymerization of
   acrylamide and acrylic acid onto the surface of HDPE tape film. The process
   is performed under a nitrogen atmosphere using benzophenone as the
 5 photoinitiator. It was noted that pre-soaking was very important for
   efficient photographing within short irradiation times. The application of
   this pre-soaking photografting method to poly(ethylene terephthalate)      (PET)
   was also dislosed. In this context acetone was found to be a somewhat better
   solvent than methylethyl ketone and methylpropyl ketone. When applied to a
 0 continuous process for the photochemically induced graft polymerization of
   acrylamide and acrylic acid of poly(propylene)     (PP) fiber surface under a
   nitrogen atmosphere, optimal concentrations of hydrophilicitizing agent and
   initiator in the pre-soaking solution were determined.
   The publications of Kubota and Hata    (1990a and 1990b) disclose an
 5 investigation of the location of methacrylic acid chains introduced into
   poly(ethylene) film by liquid and vapor-phase photograftings and a
   comparative examination of the photografting behaviours of benzil,
   benzophenone and benzoin ethyl ether as sensitizers. In these latter studies
   poly(methacrylic acid) was grafted onto initiator-coated LDPE film.
 O The publication of Edge et al    (1993) discloses the photochemical grafting of
   2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate   (HEMA) onto LDPE film. A solution phase method is
   used to produce a material with increased wettability. The publication of
   Singleton et al   (1993) discloses a method of making a polymeric sheet
   wettable by aqueous solvents and useful as an electrode separator in an
 5 electrochemical device. The polymeric sheet is formed from fibers which
   comprise poly(propylene) alone and is distinguished from a membrane formed
   from a microporous polymer sheet. The publication of Zhang and Ranby      (1993)
   discloses the photochemically induced graft copolymerisation of acrylamide
   onto the surface of PP film. Acetone was shown to be the best solvent among
30 the three aliphatic ketones tested.
   The publications of Yang and Ranby    (1996a and 1996b) disclose factors
   affecting the photografting process, including the role of far UV radiation
    (200 to 300 nm).  In these studies benzophenone was used as the photoinitiator
   and LDPE film as the substrate. Added water was shown to favour the
35 photografting polymerisation of acrylic acid on the surface of polyolefins,
   but acetone was shown to have a negative effect due to the different
   solvation of poly(acrylic acid)    (PAA).
   The publication of Hirooka and Kawazu     (1997) discloses alkaline separators
   prepared from unsaturated carboxylic acid grafted poly(ethylene)
40 poly(propylene) fiber sheets. Again, the sheets used as a substrate in these
                                             2

   studies are distinguished from a membrane formed from a microporous polymer
   sheet.
   The publication of Xu and Yang       (2000) discloses a study on the mechanism of
   vapor-phase photografting of acrylic acid in LDPE. The publication of Shentu
 5 et al   (2002) discloses a study of the factors, including the concentration of
   hydrophilicitizing agent, affecting photo-grafting on low-density LDPE. The
   publication of El Kholdi et al       (2004) discloses a continuous process for the
   graft polymerisation of acrylic acid from hydrophilicitizing agent solutions
   in water onto LDPE.      The publication of Bai et al      (2011) discloses the
 0 preparation of a hot melt adhesive of grafted low-density poly(ethylene)
    (LDPE).  The adhesive is prepared by surface UV photografting of acrylic acid
   onto the LDPE with benzophenone as the photoinitiator.
   The publication of Choi et al      (2001) states that graft polymerisation is
   considered as a general method for modifying the chemical and physical
 5 properties of polymer materials.
   The publication of Choi      (2002) discloses a method for producing an acrylic
   graft polymer on the surface of a polyolefin article comprising the steps of
   immersing the article in a solution of an initiator in a volatile solvent,
   allowing the solvent to evaporate, and then immersing the article in a
 0 solution of an acrylic hydrophilicitizing agent before subjecting the article
   to ultraviolet irradiation in air or an inert atmosphere. Acrylic acid is
   used as the acrylic hydrophilicitizing agent in each one of the Examples
   disclosed in the publication, although the use of equivalent amounts of
   methacrylic acid, acrylamide and other acrylic hydrophilicitizing agents is
 5 anticipated.
   The publication of Choi      (2004) discloses the use of "ethylenically
   unsaturated hydrophilicitizing agents" in graft polymerisation. These other
   hydrophilicitizing agents are disclosed as hydrophilicitizing agents that are
   polymerisable by addition polymerisation to a thermoplastic polymer and are
30 hydrophilic as a consequence of containing carboxyl          (-COOH), hydroxyl  (-OH),
   sulfonyl   (SO3 ), sulfonic acid   (-SO 3 H) or carbonyl (-CO)  groups. No
   experimental results concerning the chemical and physical properties of graft
   polymers prepared by a method using these other hydrophilicitizing agents is
   disclosed.
35 The publication of Choi      (2005) discloses a non-woven sheet of polyolefin
   fibres where opposed surfaces of the sheet are hydrophilic as a consequence
   of an acrylic graft polymerisation. The properties of the sheet are
   asymmetric, the ion exchange coefficient of the two surfaces being different.
   The method used to prepare these asymmetric acrylic graft polymerised non
                                                 3

   woven polyolefin sheets comprises the steps of immersing the substrates in a
   solution of benzophenone  (a photoinitiator),  drying and then immersing the
   substrate in a solution of acrylic acid prior to subjecting to ultraviolet
    (UV) irradiation. The irradiation may be performed when the surfaces are in
 5 contact with either air or an inert atmosphere.
   The publication of Gao et al   (2013) discloses a method of preparing a
   radiation cross-linked lithium-ion battery separator. In an example, a porous
   polyethylene membrane is immersed in a solution of benzophenone and triallyl
   cyanurate in dichloromethane.    The immersed membrane is dried at room
 0 temperature before being immersed in a water bath at 30'C and irradiated on
   both sides using a high-pressure mercury lamp for three minutes.
   The objective of the majority of these prior art methods is to improve the
   adhesion, biocompatibility, printability or wettability of the surface of a
   substrate. These improvements to surface characteristics are to be
 5 distinguished from the use of UV-initiated polymerisation to modify the
   permeability of preformed microporous polyolefin substrates, such as the
   substrates described in the publications of Fisher et al    (1991) and Gillberg
   LaForce  (1994).
   It is well-known to prepare thin film composite membranes to modify the
 0 permeability of a preformed microporous polyolefin substrate. For example,
   the publication of Jones  (1990) discloses a composite permselective membrane
   comprising an ultrathin semipermeable layer comprising a polybenzimidazole
   polymer in occluding contact with at least one surface of a microporous
   polymer support layer. The membranes are asserted to provide better
 5 combinations of flux and rejection rates in reverse osmosis processes than do
   conventional semipermeable membranes of polybenzimidazole polymer alone.
   The publication of Callahan and Johnson   (1990) discloses a composite membrane
   having a microporous support which is coated with a UV curable polymer
   composition having a sufficiently high viscosity to prevent pore filling upon
30 coating and curing.
   The publication of Gillberg-LaForce and Gabriel    (1991) discloses a pore
   modified microporous membrane which is made by a process of incorporating a
   polymerizable vinyl hydrophilicitizing agent within the pores of a
   microporous membrane followed by polymerization to secure the resulting
35 polymer within the pores. The process is stated to be particularly suitable
   for modifying a hydrophobic microporous membrane with a hydrophilic polymer,
   as occurs for example when polyacrylic acid is secured into the pores of a
   polypropylene microporous membrane.
                                           4

   The publication of Callahan and Johnson   (1992) discloses a composite membrane
   having a microporous support which is coated with a UV curable polymer
   composition having a sufficiently high viscosity to prevent pore filling upon
   coating and curing.
 5 The publication of Cussler et al  (1992) discloses a process for modifying the
   properties of a hydrophobic microporous membrane which includes the steps of
   treating a hydrophobic microporous membrane with a surfactant to render the
   membrane hydrophilic, permeating the membrane with a polyol, and crosslinking
   the polyol to yield a hydrophilic microporous membrane having pores filled
 0 with an aqueous gel. The modified membranes are asserted to be useful in
   carrying out chromatographic separations.
   The publication of Donato and Phillips   (1993) discloses a composite membrane
   having a microporous support which is coated with a polymer selected from the
   group consisting of polyethylene oxide, polyacrylic acid, poly(methyl
 5 methacrylate) and polyacrylamide wherein there is no pore filing of the
   microporous support. The publication of Donato   (1994) discloses a composite
   membrane having a microporous support coated with an aqueous polyeurethane
   dispersion composition. The publication of Donato and Phillips   (1994)
   discloses a composite membrane having a microporous support which is coated
 0 with a polymer composition and a contact adhesive layer applied to said
   polymer.
   For the most part, the methods of preparing composite membranes disclosed in
   these publications use UV initiated polymerisation to form polymers in situ.
   Methods of adhering dissimilar preformed polymers to the surface of the
 5 microporous polyolefin substrates are less well known.
   It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of decreasing
   the hydrophobicity of preformed microporous poly(ethylene) sheets and thereby
   provided modified microporous polyethylene sheets suitable for use in the
   preparation of water permeable asymmetric composite membranes. It is an
30 object of the present invention to provide an asymmetric composite membrane
   suitable for use in the recovery or removal of water from dairy and other
   feed streams. These objects are to be read in the alternative with the object
   at least to provide a useful choice.
   DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
35 In an unclaimed first aspect the invention provides a method of preparing an
   asymmetric composite membrane comprising the steps:
        1.   Contacting one side of a sheet of hydrophilicitized
             microporous polyolefin with a dispersion in an organic
                                           5

             solvent of sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone) and at least
             one cross-linking agent to provide a coated sheet;      and then
         2.  Irradiating the one side of the coated sheet at a wave
             length and an intensity for a time sufficient to provide
 5           the asymmetric composite membrane.
   In an embodiment of the first aspect, the invention provides a method of
   preparing an asymmetric composite membrane comprising the steps:
         1.  Irradiating a dispersion comprising sulfonated poly(ether
             ether ketone) and at least one cross-linking agent in an
 0           organic solvent to provide a partially cross-linked
             dispersion of sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone);
         2.  Contacting one side of a sheet of wetted microporous
             polyolefin with the dispersion of partially     cross-linked
             sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone);
 5       3.  Irradiating the one side of the coated sheet at a wave
             length and an intensity for a time sufficient to adhere the
             cross-linked sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone) to the
             sheet of microporous polyolefin to provide a composite;      and
             then
 0       4.  Drying the composite at a temperature and time sufficient
             to provide the asymmetric composite membrane,
   where the sheet of wetted microporous polyolefin is wetted with a solution of
   a hydrophilicitizing agent in an aqueous solvent.
   Preferably, the aqueous solvent is 40 to 60%     (v/v) acetone in water.
 5 Preferably, the hydrophilicitizing agent is 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid.
   Preferably,  the hydrophilic microporous polyolefin    is  a graft polymer.   More
   preferably,  the side chains of the graft polymer are derived from one or more
   of 2-acrylamido-1-methyl-2-propanesulfonic acid, 2-propen-1-ol, 2-propenoic
   acid, 2-hydroxyethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoic acid ester and 4-ethenyl
30 benzenesulfonic acid.    Yet more preferably, the side chains of the graft
   polymer are derived from either or both of 2-acrylamido-1-methyl-2
   propanesulfonic  acid and 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic    acid.  Most preferably,  the
   side chains of the graft polymer are derived from 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic
   acid.
35 Preferably, the organic solvent is dimethylacetamide.
   Preferably,  the cross-linking agent is   a di-,  tri- or tetra-ethenyl   compound
   with a molecular weight less than 260.   More preferably,    the cross-linking
                                            6

   agent is a di- or tetra-ethenyl compound selected from the group consisting
   of: divinylbenzene, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and glyoxal bis(diallyl
   acetal).  Most preferably, the cross-linking agent is p-divinylbenzene.
   Preferably, the ratio of cross-linking agent to sulfonated poly(ether ether
 5 ketone) is in the range 2:3 to 1:3.   More preferably, the ratio of cross
   linking agent to sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone) is 1:2.
   Preferably, the dispersion additionally includes at least one
   hydrophilicitizing agent.  More preferably, the at least one
   hydrophilicitizing agent is 2-acrylamido-1-methyl-2-propanesulfonic acid, 4
 0 ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid, or a salt thereof. Most preferably, the at
   least one hydrophilicitizing agent is 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid.
   Preferably, the dispersion comprises a photoinitiator.    Most preferably, the
   photoinitiator is benzophenone.
   Preferably, the concentration of photoinitiator is greater than 2%    (w/w).
 5 More preferably, the concentration of photoinitiator is greater than 4%
    (w/w).
   Preferably, the irradiating is at wavelengths greater than 350 nm and at an
   intensity equivalent to 0.1 mW m-1 at a distance of 50 mm.
   Preferably, the irradiating is for a time of 60 to 120 seconds. More
 0 preferably, the irradiating is for a time of 80 to 100 seconds
   In a second aspect the invention provides an asymmetric composite membrane
   consisting essentially of a film of cross-linked sulfonated poly(ether ether
   ketone) adhered to a sheet of hydrophilic microporous polyolefin.
   Preferably, the film of cross-linked sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone) is
25 an interpenetrating film of cross-linked sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone).
   In an unclaimed third aspect the invention provides a method of removing
   water from a feed stream comprising the step of contacting the asymmetric
   composite membrane of the second aspect of the invention with the feed stream
   at a pressure and temperature sufficient to produce permeate.
30 Preferably, the feed stream is a dairy product.    More preferably, the feed
   stream is milk.  Most preferably, the feed stream is whole milk.
   Preferably, the pressure is in the range 10 to 40 bar. More preferably, the
   pressure is in the range 15 to 35 bar.    Most preferably, the pressure is 20
   ±2.5 bar.
                                           7

   Preferably, the temperature is in the range 2 to 98 'C.     More preferably, the
                                        0
   temperature is in the range 4 to 40    C.  Most preferably, the temperature is
                         0
   in the range 4 to 20    C.
   In a fourth aspect the invention provides a method of preparing a sheet of
 5 hydrophilic microporous polyolefin comprising the steps of:
        1.   Contacting a sheet of microporous polyolefin with a
             solution of a hydrophilicitizing agent and a
             photoinitiator;
        2.   UVA irradiating the contacted sheet at an intensity and for
 0           a time sufficient to provide a graft polymer; and then
        3.   Removing non-grafted polymerised hydrophilicitizing agent,
   where the concentration of the photoinitiator in the solution is
   close to its limit of solubility in the solution.
   Preferably, the contacting is under an atmosphere of air.
 5 Preferably, the polyolefin is selected from the group consisting of:
   polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutylene and polymethylpentene. Most
   preferably, the polyolefin is polyethylene.
   Preferably, the sheet of microporous polyethylene is prepared according to a
   method disclosed in the publications of Fisher et al    (1991) and Gillberg
 0 LaForce  (1994).
   Preferably, the solution is a solution in 40 to 60%    (v/v) acetone in water.
   More preferably, the solution is a solution in 50%    (v/v) acetone in water.
   Preferably, the photoinitiator is selected from the group consisting of:
   aceto-phenone, anthraquinone, benzoin, benzoin ether, benzoin ethyl ether,
25 benzil, benzil ketal, benzophenone, benzoyl peroxide, n-butyl phenyl ketone,
   iso-butyl phenyl ketone, fluorenone, propiophenone, n-propyl phenyl ketone
   and iso-propyl phenyl ketone. Most preferably, the photoinitiator is
   benzophenone.
   Preferably, the UVA irradiating is at wavelengths greater than 350 nm.
30 Preferably, the UVA irradiating is for a time no greater than 5 minutes.
   Preferably, the removing non-grafted polymer is by washing in water. More
   preferably, the removing non-grafted polymer is by washing in water at a
                              0
   temperature of 40 to 50      C.
   In the description and claims of this specification the following acronyms,
35 terms and phrases have the meaning provided:   "bursting strength" means the
                                            8

   maximum uniformly distributed pressure applied at right angles to its
   surface, that a single sample location can withstand under test conditions;
   "close to its limit of solubility" means an increase in concentration of 5%
    (w/v) or more causes at least a portion of the solute to come out of
 5 solution, e.g. as a precipitate;  "comprising" means "including", "containing"
   or "characterized by" and does not exclude any additional element, ingredient
   or step; "consisting essentially of" means excluding any element, ingredient
   or step that is a material limitation;   "consisting of" means excluding any
   element, ingredient or step not specified except for impurities and other
 0 incidentals; "crosslinking agents" means materials that are incorporated into
   the crosslinking bridge of a polymer network;   "crosslinking" means the
   formation of a three-dimensional polymer network by covalent bonding between
   the main chains of the polymer;  "csPEEK" means chlorosulfonated PEEK;   "degree
   of sulfonation" means the ratio of moles of sulfonated structural repeating
 5 units to total moles of structural repeating units expressed as a percentage;
   "DMAc" means dimethylacetamide;  "DS" means degree of sulfonation; "durable"
   means capable of maintaining performance during repeated clean-in-place    (CIP)
   protocols;  "ethenyl" means having a terminal ethylene function   (vinyl);
   "flow" means the rate at which a feed stream is introduced;   "flux" means the
 0 rate of permeate transported per unit of membrane area;   "gfd" means gallons
   per square foot per day; "graft polymer" means a polymer in which the linear
   main chain has attached to it at various points macromolecular side chains of
   a structure different from the main chain; "homopolymer" means a polymer
   formed by the polymerization of a single monomer; "hydrophilic" means having
 5 a tendency to mix with, dissolve in, or be wetted by water and
   "hydrophilicity" has a corresponding meaning; "hydrophilicitizing agents"
   means materials that are incorporated into a polymer network to impart
   hydrophilic properties;  "hydrophobic" means having a tendency to repel or
   fail to mix with water and "hydrophobicity" has a corresponding meaning;
30 "interpenetrating" means a comingling of two polymer networks;   "LMH" means
   litres per square metre per hour;  "microporous" means consisting of an
   essentially continuous matrix structure containing substantially uniform
   small pores or channels distributed uniformly throughout the body of the
   substrate and specifically excludes a discontinuous matrix of woven or non
35 woven fibres; "non-aqueous" means initially excluding water;   "passage" means
   the percentage of dissolved species in the feed stream allowed to pass
   through the membrane;  "PEEK" means poly(oxy-1,4-phenyleneoxy-1.4
   phenylenecarbonyl-1,4-phenylene); "permeate" means the at least partially
   purified product water;  "photoinitiator" means a photolabile compound which
40 upon irradiation forms a radical; "polymer blend" means a homogenous or
   heterogeneous physical mixture of two or more polymers;   "post-treated
   polymer" means a polymer that is modified, either partially or completely,
                                           9

   after the basic polymer backbone has been formed; "preformed" means formed
   beforehand, i.e. prior to treatment;  "recovery" means the percentage of the
   feed stream that emerges from the system as product water or "permeate";
   "rejection" means the percentage of solids concentration removed from the
 5 feed stream by the membrane;  "sPEEK" means sulfonated PEEK;  "structural
   repeating unit" means a smallest structural unit that repeats in the polymer
   backbone, e.g. oxy-1,4-phenyleneoxy-1.4-phenylenecarbonyl-1,4-phenylene is
   the structural repeating unit of PEEK;  "tensile strength" means the maximum
   tensile stress sustained by a specimen at the yield point   (tensile strength
 0 at yield) or at break  (tensile strength at break) during a tension test;
   "UVA" means electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths between 320 and 400
   nm and "UVB" means electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths between 290
   and 320 nm.
   The phrase "rejection layer" is used synonymously with the phrase "barrier
 5 layer" and the phrase "backing layer" is used synonymously with the phrase
   "support layer".  The term "film" is generally used when referring to the
   rejection layer of the asymmetric composite membrane and the term "sheet" is
   generally used when referring to the backing layer of the asymmetric
   composite membrane. Any reference to a "preformed microporous substrate"
 0 specifically excludes a preformed post-treated polymer.
   In the absence of further limitation the use of plain bonds in the
   representations of the structures of compounds encompasses the diastereomers,
   enantiomers and mixtures thereof of the compounds. The use of double bonds in
   the representations of aromatic ring structures does not exclude
 5 delocalisation of the 2-electrons and encompasses alternative representations
   of the same aromatic ring structures.
   The terms "first", "second", "third", etc. used with reference to elements,
   features or integers of the subject matter defined in the Statement of
   Invention and Claims, or when used with reference to alternative embodiments
30 of the invention are not intended to imply an order of preference.
   Where concentrations or ratios of reagents or solvents are specified, the
   concentration or ratio specified is the initial concentration or ratio of the
   reagents or solvents.   Where values are expressed to one or more decimal
   places standard rounding applies.   For example, 1.7 encompasses the range
35 1.650 recurring to 1.749 recurring.
   The invention will now be described with reference to embodiments or examples
   and the figures of the accompanying drawings pages.
                                          10

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
   Figure 1.   Comparison of the FTIR spectra obtained for Sample 1 (lower
   trace),  Sample 3 (middle trace) and Sample 4 (upper trace).   An FTIR spectrum
   was not obtained for Sample 2.
 5 Figure 2. Comparison of the contact angles determined for Sample 1 (Ally
   [sic]  alcohol), Sample 3 (HEMA), Sample 4 (SSS) and Sample 2 (Acrylic acid)
   before  (0) and after exposure to an acid (N) or alkali   (M) environment.
   Figure 3. Comparison of the permeability determined for Sample 1 (Allyl
   alcohol),  Sample 3 (HEMA), Sample 4 (SSS) and Sample 2 (Acylic [sic]     Acid)
 0 before  (0) and after exposure to an acid (N) or an alkali    (M) environment
   relative to the permeability of the unmodified polyolefin substrate      (O).
   Figure 4.   Correspondence between contact angle and permeability determined
   for samples before   (*) and after exposure to an acid  (A)  or an alkali     (U)
   environment. The outlier is Sample 4 (SSS) after exposure to an alkali        (M)
 5 environment.
   Figure 5.   Water absorption determined for Sample 1 (Allylic alcohol),       Sample
   2 (Arylic [sic]  Acid),  Sample 3 (HEMA) and Sample 4 (SSS).
   Figure 6.   The dry weight increase determined for Sample 5 (SSS),    Sample 6
    (AA), Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
 0  (CELGARD- K2045).
   Figure 7.   The water absorption determined for Sample 5 (SSS),    Sample 6 (AA),
   Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
    (CELGARDm K2045).
   Figure 8.   The contact angles determined for Sample 5 (SSS),    Sample 6 (AA),
25 Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
    (CELGARD- K2045).
   Figure 9.   The bubble points determined for Sample 5 (SSS),    Sample 6 (AA),
   Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
    (CELGARD- K2045).
30 Figure 10.   The sodium rejection determined for Sample 5 (SSS),    Sample 6
    (AA), Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
    (CELGARD- K2045).
   Figure 11.   The milk flux determined for Sample 5 (SSS),   Sample 6 (AA),
   Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene substrate
35  (CELGARDm K2045).
                                           11

   Figure 12.   The total milk solids rejection determined for Sample 5 (SSS),
   Sample 6 (AA),   Sample 7 (HEMA) and the untreated microporous polyethylene
   substrate  (CELGARDm K2045).
   Figure 13. Exploded view of the filter assembly (Sterlitech Corp.) used in
 5 the flux testing of samples of sheets of hydrophilic microporous polyethylene
   and asymmetric composite membrane.
   Figure 14.  Flux  (LMH)  (*)  and total    solids rejection   (%) (0) for Sample 1
   during repeated CIP protocols     (10 x according to the schedule provided in
   Table 8).  The feed stream was whole milk.
 0 Figure 15. Lactose rejection     (%) detected by FTIR for Sample 2 during
   sequential CIP protocols     (10 times according to the schedule provided in
   Table 7 followed by 12 times according to the schedule provided in Table 8),
   drying of the sample and further CIP protocols        (8 times according to the
   schedule provided in Table 8).     The feed stream was whole milk.
 5 Figure 16.  Flux  (LMH)  (*)  and total    solids rejection   (%) (0) for Sample 3
   during repeated CIP protocols     (25 x according to the Schedule provided in
   Table 8. The feed stream was whole milk.
   Figure 17.  Flux  (LMH)  (*)  and total    solids rejection   (%) (U) for Sample 4
   during repeated CIP protocols     (17 times according to the schedule provided in
 0 Table 8).  The feed stream was whole milk.
   Figure 18. Flux   (LMH) (X) for Sample 5 measured over a period of eight hours
   using raw milk as the feed stream.
   Figure 19. Comparison of the total solids rejection         (%) for Sample 6 and
   Sample 1 before   (left hand bar) and after      (right hand bar) a single CIP
25 protocol according to the schedule provided in Table 8. The feed stream was
   whole milk.
   Figure 20. Sodium chloride     (NaCl) rejection    (%) by Samples 7 to 10 of an
   asymmetric composite membrane prepared using different ratios of sPEEK and
   DVB in the preparation of the rejection layer. The feed stream was whole
30 milk.
   Figure 21. Lactose rejection     (%) by Samples 7 to 10 of an asymmetric
   composite membrane prepared using different ratios of sPEEK and DVB in the
   preparation of the rejection layer. The feed stream was whole milk.
   Figure 22.  Total solids rejection      (%) by Samples 7 to 10 of an asymmetric
35 composite membrane prepared using different ratios of sPEEK and DVB in the
   preparation of the rejection layer. The feed stream was whole milk.
                                               12

   Figure 23. Flux   (LMH) for Samples 7 to 10 of an asymmetric composite membrane
   prepared using different ratios of sPEEK and DVB in the preparation of the
   rejection layer.   The feed stream was either deionised water     (4) or whole milk
    (0).
 5 Figure 24.  Comparison of the sodium chloride     (NaCl) rejection  (%) for Sample
   11 of an asymmetric composite membrane prepared using a different combination
   of solvent and hydrophilicitizing agent.
   Figure 25. Flux   (LMH) for Sample 11 of an asymmetric composite membrane
   prepared using a different combination of solvent and hydrophilicitizing
 0 agent.
   Figure 26. Comparison of the sodium chloride      (NaCl) rejection  (%) (coarse
   diagonal hatching),   flux  (LMH) (fine diagonal hatching) and sucrose rejection
    (%) (medium diagonal hatching) for Sample 13 of an asymmetric composite
   membrane prepared using unmodified pPE as the backing layer and a sample of a
 5 symmetric composite membrane prepared using hydrophilic pPE as the backing
   layer.
   Figure 27.  Characterisation of Sample 13 using the Donnan Stearic Pore Model
    (DSPM) and curve fitting with sucrose as the uncharged solute.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 0 The invention resides in part in the preparation of water permeable
   hydrophilic microporous polyethylene     (ptPE) sheets that may be advantageously
   used as a backing layer in the preparation of a durable asymmetric composite
   membrane.   According to the invention the backing layer is prepared by the
   photoinitiated graft polymerisation of a sheet of pPE with selected
25 hydrophilicitizing agents    (Table 1).   The hydrophilicitizing agent is
   selected to provide graft polymers with the chemical and physical properties
   dictated by the intended use of the asymmetric composite membrane.        The
   method uses UVA irradiation to reduce the risk of harm to operators and
   permit the rate and degree of modification of the microporous polyolefin
30 substrate to be readily controlled. The period of irradiation of the
   microporous substrate is limited to less than 5 minutes.       In addition, the
   use of a solvent system    (e.g. 1:1  (v/v) acetone-water) in which the
   photoinitiator   (e.g. benzophenone) is close to its limit of solubility is
   believed to promote the deposition of the photoinitiator on the walls of the
35 pores of the microporous polyolefin substrate. In the context of preparing
   water permeable membranes using acrylic acid as the hydrophilicitizing agent
   this selection of parameters has been found to provide a ptPE sheet suitable
   for use in ultrafiltration of feed streams such as whole milk. In the context
                                             13

   of preparing a durable  (i.e. chlorine tolerant) asymmetric composite
   membrane, the selection of 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid (SSS) as the
   hydrophilicitizing agent has been found to provide a hydrophilic pPE sheet
   particularly suited for use in the preparation of the membrane.
 5 Preparation of hydrophilic microporous polyoleffin
   A microporous polyolefin substrate is contacted with a solution of 1%      (w/v)
   photoinitiator and 6%  (w/v) hydrophilicitizing agent in 1:1     (v/v) acetone
   water.   The contacted substrate is then UVA-irradiated at a peak wavelength
   of 368 nm for a maximum of 5 minutes. The irradiated substrate is finally
 0 washed using ultrasound in an excess of water followed by soaking in water.
   It was observed that a lower contact angle was achievable when irradiation of
   the contacted substrate occurred with the photoinitiator in solution      (as
   opposed to being dried on the surface of the substrate).
   For the preparation of samples A to D of modified polyolefin substrate
 5 according to the general method, sheets    (20 pm thickness) of porous   (45%
   porosity, 0.08 pm average pore diameter) poly(ethylene)     (CELGARDm K2045,
   Celgard LLC) were used as the polyolefin substrate.     The solution was
   prepared by mixing benzophenone   (photoinitiator) with acetone before adding
   water and then the selected hydrophilicitizing agent.     The polyolefin
 0 substrate was contacted with the solution by placing a sheet of the substrate
   in a clear polyethylene bag and then using a threaded rod to apply the
   solution to the substrate. Any residual air was then removed from the bag
   before sealing and hanging from a frame. Irradiation was for three and a half
   minutes using UV fluorescent lamps   (368 nm) having a bulb irradiance of 0.1
 5 mW m-1 at a distance of 50 mm. The ultrasound washing was for five minutes
   followed by soaking at 45'C for three hours.
   For the preparation of Sample E amounts of 0.6 g of the hydrophilicitizing
   agent sodium 4-vinylbenzene sulphonate and 0.1 g of the photoinitator
   benzophenone were dissolved in water   (5 mL) and acetone   (5 mL).   The solution
30 was then applied to a microporous polyethylene sheet on a glass plate using a
   threaded rod. Three applications were made until the polyethylene was wetted
   out. The glass plate and sample were then placed in a polyethylene plastic
   bag then clamped to a frame and cured using fluorescent UV lamps at a
   distance of 5 cm on both sides of the sample. The peak wavelength of the
35 lamps was 368nm and an irradiance power of 0.2 to 0.4 mW/m for each lamp. The
   lamps were placed in a line with 50 mm centres. The time the samples were
   irradiated was 210 seconds. The samples were then removed from the
   polyethylene bag and washed in 45 'C water for 10 seconds to removed excess
   polymer and unreacted hydrophilicitizing agent and put in an oven to dry for
                                           14

   30 minutes at 65 'C. The samples were then removed from the glass plate by
   immersion in a water bath and extracted in a beaker of deionised water for
   three hours. Sample F was prepared by the same method as used for the
   preparation of Sample E, but with a volume of 0.6 mL of the
 5 hydrophilicitizing agent acrylic acid being substituted for the
   hydrophilicitizing agent sodium 4-vinylbenzene sulphonate and added after the
   benzophenone was dissolved in the solvent. Sample G was prepared by the same
   method as used for the preparation of Sample E, but with a volume of 0.6 mL
   of the hydrophilicitizing agent 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate being substituted
 0 for the hydrophilicitizing agent sodium 4-vinylbenzene sulphonate and added
   after the benzophenone was dissolved in the solvent. The properties of
   samples of modified polyolefin substrate prepared using different
   hydrophilicitizing agents were assessed.
                      Hydrophilicitizing agents                                 Structure
                                                                                0
        2-acrylamido-1-methyl-2-propanesulfonic acid   (AMPS)                        N      SO 3 H
                                                                                   H
                    2-propen-1-ol (allyl alcohol)
                                                                                0
                   2-propenoic acid
                                    (acrylic acid)
                                                                                   OH
                                                                                  OH
                                                                                0
       2-hydroxyethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoic acid ester   (HEMA)                              OH
                                                                                         SO3Na
     4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid (as the sodium salt)   (SSS)
15         Table 1.  Structure of AMPS, SSS and alternative  hydrophilicitizing
           agents.
   Characterisation of hydrophilic microporous polyoleffin samples
   Fourier transform infrared (FTIR)
   Spectra of the samples were recorded using a Thermo Electron Nicolet 8700
20 FTIR spectrometer equipped with a single bounce ATR and diamond crystal. An
   average of 32 scans with a 4 cm-1 resolution was taken for all               samples.
                                               15

   Surface analysis
   The contact angles for the surfaces of the asymmetric composite membrane were
   determined in using the captive bubble method as described in the publication
   of Causserand and Aimar     (2010).   The samples were immersed in deionized water
 5 with the surface to be analysed facing downwards. An air bubble was trapped
   on the lower surface of the sample using a syringe. An image of the bubble
   was captured and the contact angle was calculated from its geometrical
   parameters.
   Permeability    and flux testing
 0 Permeability was determined by measuring the flux in deionized water at
   various pressures starting at 20 bar and decreasing in 4 bar iterations. Flux
   J    was then graphed against effective pressure difference across the membrane,
   peff, and the slope of the permeability L,.
                                              L   = IvV
 5 Initial flux rates under pressure         (20 bar) and no pressure were determined
   using the Sterlitech flux rig illustrated in Figure 13 equipped with a
   PolyScience cooling unit. The samples were mounted in the flux cell and
   bolted.    Deionized water was fed into the rig at 2.5 L min'             and 4 to 8 'C.  The
   time to collect a predetermined volume of permeate was noted. The flux rate
 0  (J)  was calculated according to the following equation:
                                                      V
                                                 = txA
   where V is the permeate volume       (L),    t is the time       (h) for the collection of V
                                      2
   and A is    area of the sample   (m ) which was determined to be 0.014 m 2 .
   To assess durability in different environments tests were also performed on
25 samples immersed for 60 to 70 hours in aqueous solutions of either 30%                 (w/v)
   potassium hydroxide     ("alkali environment") or 33%            (w/v) hydrochloric acid
    ("acid environment").
   Dry weight increases were calculated by taking the dry weight of the sample
   after it had dried in an oven for half an hour and comparing the weight to
30 the initial weight of the porous polyethylene before grafting. Dry weights
   were taken after loose polymer had been extracted from the membrane and at
   the end of testing after a clean in place.
                                   Amdr,  =Mdry -       initial 100
                                                 minita
                                                   16

   Water absorption was measured after loose polymer from the membrane had been
   extracted. The wet membranes were dabbed dry with a paper towel to remove
   surface moisture and weighed.
                                     Amwet =   mwet - minittai X 100
                                                  Initial
 5 Total solids rejection for whole milk samples was measured by pouring 20 mL
   of sample from the feed in a petri dish and measuring the dry weight after 2
   hours in a 100 'C oven.
                                      %RTS  =   1-   MAS     x 100
   where mp,is is  total   milk solids in     the permeate and mf,Ts is        the mass of milk
 0 total solids in the feed.
   Sodium chloride rejection was measured using a 2 g/L solution with a feed
   pressure   of 16 bar.   The conductivities        from the feed and permeate were
   compared.
                                       %RNaCI      1  -      X 100
 5 Where op is   the conductivity of permeate and of is              the conductivity of the
   feed.
   The bubble point of the dry membranes was determined by gradually increasing
   the pressure    of the feed until    permeate        started to flow through the membrane.
   Results
20 The FTIR spectra for samples A to D generally showed faint peaks compared to
   the peaks observed in      the FTIR spectrum of the unmodified polyolefin
                         m
   substrate   (CELGARD    K2045,  Celgard LLC) (see Figure 1).           However,  the ester and
   carbonyl groups of Sample C were clearly discernible.                 The hydroxyl  group
   peaks of Sample A and Sample D were barely evident.                  The FTIR spectrum for
25 Sample B was not determined.
   The contact angles for samples A to D showed an inverse relationship with the
   permeability determined for the same sample               (see Figures 2 to 4).    Sample C
   was observed to have the lowest contact angle and the highest permeability
   prior to exposure to an acid or alkali environment.                 Following exposure to an
30 acid environment the contact angle for Sample D increased. The contact angle
   of the unmodified polyolefin       substrate       (CELGARD M K2045,     Celgard LLC) was
   determined to be 890,      so modification of the surface tension is             shown for all
   the samples despite the absence of definitive FTIR spectra.                  The observed
                                                   17

   initial flux rates were also consistent with modification of the polyolefin
   substrate   (see Table 2).
                                                  Initial    flux  (Lm 2min-1)
                      Sample
                                           No pressure              Pressure (20 bar)
               A (Allyl alcohol)                50                            484
                B (Acrylic acid)                43                            555
                    C (HEMA)                    61                            772
                     D (SSS)                    44                            577
           Table 2. Initial flux rates of samples of modified polyolefin
 5         substrate   (CELGARDm K2045, Celgard LLC).
   All of samples A to D showed an increase in permeability compared to the
   unmodified membrane which measured 2.56 m           s-1 Pa-1.  When soaked for   66 hours in
   30%  (w/v) potassium hydroxide Sample A was stable based on a comparison of
   the permeability determined before and after exposure to the alkali
 0 environment.    By comparison Sample D showed a large increase in permeability
   when exposed to the same alkali environment indicating the importance of the
   selection of the hydrophilicitizing agent when preparing modified polyolefin
   substrates for particular applications, e.g. alkaline battery separators.
   Furthermore, when immersed in 33%        (w/v) hydrochloric acid Sample D turned the
 5 acid environment yellow and a strong odour of chlorine was detected,
   indicating oxidation of the modified polyolefin substrate. Notwithstanding
   this observation, the permeability of Sample D following exposure to the acid
   environment remained stable suggesting that the polyolefin substrate was not
   being degraded. When Sample B was exposed to the acid environment no colour
 0 change was observed, but the permeability decreased to less than the
   permeability of the polyolefin substrate, i.e. less than 2.56 m s-1 Pa-.
   As a general rule the higher the observed contact angle the lower the
   permeability determined for a sample. After Sample D was exposed to an alkali
   environment the sample developed a high initial flux even though the contact
25 angle was determined to remain high.         This observation indicates that the
   structure of the modified polyolefin is degraded. Water absorption was
   observed to be greatest for Sample B and Sample D, and of these two samples,
   Sample D had the largest water absorption. Sample A had a larger water
   absorption than Sample C (see Figure 5).
30 Based on the assessment the preparation of modified polyolefin substrates
   according to the general method using 2-hydroxyethyl 2-methyl-2-propenoic
   acid ester as the hydrophilicitizing agent is selected for use as a backing
   or support layer in osmosis membranes.          Sample C has been determined to
                                                18

   provide high initial flux and the ability to let permeate through at low
   pressure differentials.         Use of this class of modified polyolefin is
   indicated for medical applications.
   Based on the assessment the preparation of modified polyolefin substrates
 5 according to the general method using 2-propen-1-ol as the hydrophilicitizing
   agent is selected for use in applications having an alkali environment.
   Sample A maintained a relatively high permeability under these conditions.
   Based on the assessment the preparation of modified polyolefin substrates
   according to the general method using 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid as the
 0 hydrophilicitizing agent is selected for use in applications having an acid
   environment. Under these conditions Sample D maintained a more stable flux
   than Sample B exposed to the same conditions.
   The assessments of replicates         (i, i      iii,...) of samples E, F and G are
   presented in Table 3 and Figures 6 to 12.
     Hydrophilicitizing        Sample    AMary AMwet B.Pt B.EPtcre 1    Fluxm  %RNaCl   FlUXMilk   %RTS
             agent           (replicate)               bar                            ( Lm- 2hr-1)
          4-ethyenyl-           E(i)       9%   10%      4     0     32   429    2%         16     66%
       benzenesulfonic          E(ii)      7%   13%      4     4     60   114    3%         15     71%
         acid, Na salt
              (SSS)            E(iii)      7%  155%      4     0     55  213     5%         15     65%
                                 F(i)     10%  158%      0     0     33  208     9%         13     72%
         Acrylic acid           F(ii)     13%  165%      0     0     32   167   13%       147       8%
               (AA)
                               F(iii)     16%  158%      0     0     30  208    41%         12     71%
      2-hydroxyethyl 2-         G(i)      13%   64%      0     0     32   303    4%        20      50%
            methyl-             G(ii)     14%   57%      0     0     35   405    3%         44     46%
       2-propenoic acid
             ester             G(iii)     10%   68%      4     4     27   147    4%         51     46%
             (HEMA)             G(iv)     10%   68%      0     0     31   385    2%         97     16%
15
                 Table 3. Assessments of replicates of Samples E, F and G.
   Sample F was observed to provide a water permeable membrane with the highest
   rejection of salt       (sodium chloride)     (Figure 10)     combined with a relatively
   high flux      (Figure 11)  and rejection of total milk solids           (Figure 12).      Based
20 on this assessment the preparation of modified polyolefin substrates
   according to the general method using acrylic acid as the hydrophilicitizing
   agent is indicated for use as a membrane in the ultrafiltration of feed
   streams such as milk.
   The combination of a cross-linked poly(ether ether ketone) rejection layer
25 and a hydrophilic microporous polyethylene backing layer provides a durable
   asymmetric composite membrane suitable for use in commercial processing
   operations.
                                                    19

   Preparation of the asymmetric composite membrane
   The membrane is prepared by adhering a sheet of hydrophilic microporous
   poly(ethylene)    (pPE) to a film of putatively cross-linked sulfonated
   poly(ether ether ketone)    (sPEEK). The adherence is augmented by the
 5 interpenetration of the two polymers. In the laboratory the membrane may be
   prepared according to the following method in which the sheet of hydrophilic
   pPE is nominally referred to as the 'backing layer' and the film of
   putatively cross-linked sPEEK is nominally referred to as the 'rejection
   layer'.   (The backing layer may alternatively be referred to as the 'support
 0 layer' and the rejection layer alternatively referred to as the 'barrier
   layer'.)    The method provides the advantage of being adaptable to the
   continuous production of the asymmetric composite membrane. The method is
   described in detail in respect of the preparation of a single sample.
       0  Rejection layer
 5 Poly(ether ether ketone)    (PEEK) (VICTREXm   450P, Victrex, England) was
   sulfonated by heating to 70'C in concentrated sulfuric acid (95%) for 8
   hours. The sulfonated PEEK    (sPEEK) was precipitated and washed in ice water
   several times before being dried in a vacuum oven. Without wishing to be
   bound by theory it is believed the small amount of water present in the
 0 concentrated sulfuric acid prevents cross-linking attributable to the
   formation of sulfone bridges. The degree of sulfonation of the sPEEK was
   determined by titration according to a modified form of the method disclosed
   in the publication of Drioli et al     (2004).  The sPEEK was leached for three
   days in a 3M solution of sodium chloride      (NaCl) and the resulting solution
 5 titrated against a 0.2 M solution of sodium hydroxide       (NaOH) using
   phenolphthalein as indicator. An amount of sPEEK       (0.2 g) with a 69%   DS was
   then added to a volume of dimethylacetamide      (DMAc) (2.7 mL) and sonicated
   until a clear to slightly cloudy dispersion was obtained.
   A volume   (0.1 mL) of divinylbenzene   (DVB) as crosslinking agent and an amount
30  (0.14 g) of sodium styrene sulfonate    (SSS) as hydrophilicitizing agent were
   added to a dispersion of sPEEK in DMAc. The dispersion contained 8%         (w/w)
   sPEEK   (0.216 mol/L) to provide a mixture containing a molar ratio of DVB to
   sPEEK of 1:2 and a molar ratio of SSS to sPEEK of 1:2.       To increase the rate
   of the photoinitiated reaction an amount of benzophenone        (BP) (8 pg) was
35 added to the mixture before pouring onto aluminium foil on a glass plate,
   directly onto a glass plate or directly onto a stainless steel surface. The
   poured mixture was then exposed to 0.1 mW m-1 UVA fluorescent lamps        (368 nm)
   at a distance of 50 mm for a limited time of 60 to 90 seconds to provide a
   semi-cured film. The photoinitiated reaction is conveniently performed under
                                             20

   an atmosphere of air       (without the need to provide an inert, e.g. nitrogen
    (N2 ), atmosphere).    The structures of DVB and alternative di- and tetra
   ethenyl cross-linking agents are provided in Table 4.
                    Cross-linking agents                               Structure
                  o-Divinylbenzene   (o-DVB)
                  m-Divinylbenzene   (m-DVB)
                  p-Divinylbenzene   (p-DVB)
                                                                                    0
          Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate      (EGDMA)
                                                                    0
             glyoxal bis(diallyl acetal) (GBDA)                         O
 5            Table 4. Structures of cross-linking agents.
            Backing layer
   The sheet of spPE to which a film of xsPEEK is adhered was prepared from a
   preformed sheet of microporous poly(ethylene) (pPE).            The formation of sheets
   pPE is described, for example, in the publications of Fisher et al              (1991) and
10 Gillberg-LaForce (1994).        In the present studies a preformed sheet of pPE       (20
   pm thickness, 45% porosity, 0.08 pm average pore diameter) (CELGARD" K2045,
   Celgard LLC) was contacted with a solution of 1%            (w/v) benzophenone and 6%
    (w/v) 4-ethenyl-benzenesulfonic acid (as the sodium salt)             (SSS) as
   hydrophilicitizing agent in 1:1           (v/v) acetone-water. The solution was
15 prepared by mixing benzophenone with acetone before adding water and then the
   hydrophilicitizing agent. The use of SSS is preferred due to the greater
   chlorine tolerance of membranes prepared using this hydrophilicitizing agent.
   This advantage applies to both the preparation of the hydrophilicitized
   backing layer and the asymmetric composite membrane.
                                                    21

       0   Asymmetric composite membrane
   The sheet of pPE contacted with the solution was laid on top of the semi
   cured film (the nascent        'rejection layer').        The composite of pPE contacted
   with the solution and semi-cured film of putative xsPEEK was then exposed as
 5 before to 0.1 mW m-1 UVA fluorescent lamps            (368 nm)   at a distance of 50 mm,
   but for a limited time of 210 seconds. The UVA-irradiated composite was then
   dried in an oven at 60'C for 30 minutes to promote adherence of the film and
   sheet before releasing the composite membrane from the aluminium foil by
   immersion in a solution of 2 % w/w sodium hydroxide or, if cured on a glass
 0 plate, by immersing the membrane in a water bath at room temperature until
   the membrane releases and floats to the surface              (typically for 10 to 15
   minutes).    Where the nascent rejection layer is cured on a stainless steel
   surface it may be necessary to soak in water overnight. The structures of
   AMPS, SSS and alternative mono-ethenyl hydrophilicitizing agents are provided
 5 in Table 1. Before evaluation the laboratory prepared composite membrane was
   rinsed at 50'C with a large excess of deionised              (DI) water.
   Samples of the asymmetric composite membrane were prepared according to the
   foregoing method consisting of a rejection layer and a backing layer prepared
   using the compositions and conditions provided in Table 3 and Table 4.
            DS   sPEEK DVB              Solvent       % solids     Cure time      Number of
    Sample
                    % of solids                         (w/w)          (s)       applications
       1     69    45   22  31  2         DMAc            12           90              1
       2     69    45   22  31  2         DMAc            12           60              1
       3     69    45   15  33   6        DMAc            15           90              2
       4    >80    41   17  30  11        DMAc            15           90              1
       5     69    45   15  33   6        DMAc            15           90              2
       6     69    98    0   0  2         DMAc            15           90              1
       7     69    70   21   0   9        DMAc             9           90              1
       8     69    57   35   0  8         DMAc             9           901
       9     69    47   46   0   6        DMAc             9           90              1
      10     69    42   52   0   6        DMAc             9           90              1
      11    >80    63   32   0  5         MeOH            29           90              1
      12    >80    15   10  70  5    acetone/water         6          300              1
      13     69    45   19  34  2         DMAc            15           90              2
20
            Table 5. Rejection layer formulations and cure conditions used in the
            preparation of each of the samples. The rejection layer of sample 12 was
            prepared using 1:1     (v/v) acetone-water as solvent.
                                                   22

                                       H.A.     BP
            Hydrophilicitizing agent                   % solids   Cure time          Number of
    Sample             (H.A.)               % of         (w/w)       (s)            applications
                                          solids
       1                AMPS             86      14        7          90                  1
       2                AMPS             86      14        7         600                  2
       3                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       4                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       5                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       6                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       7                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       8                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
       9                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
      10                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
      11                n.a.           n.a.    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.                n.a.
      12                n.a.           n.a.    n.a.      n.a.       n.a.                n.a.
      13                 SSS             86      14        7          90                  1
           Table 6. Backing layer formulations used in the preparations of each of
           the samples. All backing layers     (except for sample 11 and sample 12)
           were prepared using 1:1   (v/v) acetone-water as solvent.
 5 Characterisation of the asymmetric composite membrane
   The performance     of the asymmetric composite membrane was evaluated using a
   reverse osmosis      (RO) filter assembly of the type illustrated in Figure 13.               A
   section of the asymmetric composite membrane            (1) was pre-wetted by dipping in
   distilled water and then placed on a coarse support mesh              (2) located in the
 0 lower half   (3)   of the filter assembly housing, with a shim (4) optionally
   interposed.      The section was placed with the rejection layer of the
   asymmetric composite membrane facing downwards.             A fine mesh      (5) located in
   the upper half of the filter assembly (6) housing was placed over the upper
   surface of the section of the asymmetric composite membrane                (1).    The filter
15 assembly was sealed by sealing rings          (7, 8) and held in a hydraulic press
   pressurised to 60 Bar.       The inlet port      (9) of the lower half of the filter
   assembly housing      (3) was in fluid connection with a feed reservoir              (not
   shown) from which a feed stream was pumped           (425 rpm) at a rate to maintain
   the feed stream pressure measured on the pressure gauge              (10).      Permeate was
20 collected from the outlet port       (11) of the upper half of the filter assembly
   housing   (6) in a graduated cylinder (not shown).          Collection was started at
   least 5 minutes after the commencement of permeate being discharged from the
   outlet port    (11) in order to exclude water from the pre-wetting of the
   membrane or permeate from previously used feed streams. Flow rates of
25 approximately 2 L/min were obtained.
                                                  23

   Permeability was determined by measuring the flux in deionized water at
   various pressures starting at 20 bar and decreasing in 4 bar iterations. Flux
   J3 was then graphed against effective pressure difference across the membrane,
   peff, and the slope of the permeability L,.
                                               L      IV
 5
                                                    APeft
   Initial flux rates under pressure          (20 bar) and no pressure were determined.
   The asymmetric composite membrane was mounted in the flux cell and bolted.
                                                                               0
   Deionized water was fed into the rig at 2.5 L min-' and 4 to 8                C. The time to
   collect a predetermined volume of permeate was noted. The flux rate                 (J) was
 0 calculated according to the following equation:
                                                      V
                                                  = txA
   where V is the permeate volume        (L),    t is the time  (h) for the collection of V
                                      2
   and A is    area of the sample   (m ) which was determined to be 0.014 m 2 .
   To mimic commercial processing operations the asymmetric composite membrane
 5 was subjected to 'clean-in-place' (CIP) protocols between each use of milk as
   the feed stream. The CIP protocols were based on those employed in a
   commercial processing operation for reverse osmosis            (RO) membranes     (Anon
    (2014))   and summarised in Table 7. The CIP protocols were repeated
   alternating with the use of milk as a feed stream.             Samples were taken from
 0 the feed and permeate for each intervening use of milk as a feed stream to
   determine any deterioration in the performance of the membrane attributable
   to repeated CIP protocols.       The asymmetric composite membrane was also
   evaluated for its tolerance to a CIP protocol including sodium hypochlorite
    (Table 8).
                                        Wash'             Time     Temperature
                         Step
                                                          (min)        (CC)
                           1           Water                5       Ambient
                           2           Water                5          35
                           3          Alkali               10          35
                           4           Water                5          35
                           5            Acid               10          35
                           6           Water                5       Ambient
                           7          Alkali               10          35
                           8           Water                5       Ambient
25
            Table 7. Clean-in-place  (CIP) protocol adapted from Anon (2014).
            'alkali (2% (w/v) NaOH) and acid (1.9% (w/v) H2 NO3 and 0.6    (w/v) H 3PO4).
                                                   24

                                           Wash'           Time        Temperature
                         Step
                                                           (min)            (C)
                           1              Water               5          Ambient
                           2              Water               5              35
                           3              Alkali             10              35
                           4              Water               5              35
                           5                Acid             10              35
                           6              Water               5          Ambient
                           7             Chlorine            10              35
                           8              Water               5              35
                           9              Water             1-2              35
                          10              Water             1-2          Ambient
          Table 8. Clean-in-place        (CIP) protocol including 200 ppm free chlorine
           (as sodium hypochlorite).       'alkali (2  % (w/v) NaOH),    acid    (1.9 % (w/v)
          H2 NO3 and 0.6  (w/v) H3 PO 4 ) and chlorine    (0.05 % (w/v)   sodium hydroxide
 5        and 0.09 % (w/v) sodium hypochlorite).
   The following measurements relating to the performance of the asymmetric
   composite membrane before and after repeated application of the CIP protocols
   were made:
 0    1. initial flux rates with water or whole milk as the feed stream after
         equilibration for 30 minutes;
      2. rejection levels for fat, lactose and protein;
      3. total solids content;
      4. salt    (NaCl or Na2SO4) retention;          and
 5    5. Sucrose retention.
   The total solids content was determined gravimetrically for both the feed and
   permeate. Samples were weighed in Petri dishes and dried in an oven at 60'C
   for two hours and then 102'C for a further two hours. The resulta are
   summarised in Table 9.
20 Comparative studies
      0  Sample    1
   The sample was subjected to repeated CIP protocols according to the schedule
   provided in Table 8 with the exception that Step 1 and Step 6 were also
   performed at 35'C. The maximum total solids rejection                  (standard milk) was
25 observed after three CIP protocols with flux and total solids rejection
   stabilising after four to five CIP protocols                 (Figure 14).    Microscopic
   examination of the surface of the sample exposed to repeated CIP protocols
   indicated an increase in crystallinity of the membrane. It was found that
                                                   25

   increasing the concentration of the photoinitiator benzophenone          (BP) used in
   the subsequent preparation of samples improved the reproduceability of these
   observations.
              Deionised water                                Standard milk
                                 Rejection
    Sample            Flux         (NaCl)    Rejection       Rejection              Flux
                L/m 2 /h   (gfd)              (lactose)    (total solids)     L/m 2 /h (gfd)
       1          40    (11.7)       52           99              99           12.1    (3.5)
       2         18.1     (5.3)      47           98              99            10.1(3.0)
       3          9.5    (2.8)       46           90              97            9.4   (2.8)
       4          50    (14.7)       64           75              97           14.7    (4.3)
       5          9.5    (2.8)       46           91                              6 (1.8)
       6         1051     (308)                                   82           13.5    (4.0)
       7          3.3    (1.0)       19           42              73            8.7   (2.6)
       8           56    (16)        17           91              83           12.4    (3.6)
       9            65   (19)        13           59              79             14   (4.1)
      10           107    (31)        5           32              71           12.7    (3.7)
      11          1.6    (0.5)       50          n.a.           n.a.                n.a.
      12           83    (24)        25
      13           100    (29)       38
 5         Table 9. Performance of the samples of the asymmetric composite
           membrane measured at 20 bar.
      *   Sample 2
   The sample was subjected to repeated sequential CIP protocols according to
 0 the schedules provided in Table 7 (10 x) and Table 8 (12 x).          The sample was
   then dried for several days before being subjected to further CIP protocols.
   The lactose rejection remained high throughout the sequential CIP protocols,
   the moderate decline in performance being recoverable following drying of the
   sample  (Figure 15).
15    *   Sample 3
   The sample was subjected to repeated CIP protocols        (25 x) according to the
   schedule provided in Table 8. A total solids rejection          (standard milk)
   comparable with that obtained for sample 1 was observed. A greater
   variability in flux was observed (Figure 16).
20    *   Sample 4
   The sample was subjected to repeated CIP protocols        (17 x) and exhibited an
   unacceptable decline in the rejection of total solids         (Figure 17).   The
                                              26

   unacceptable performance of this sample was attributed to the high DS
    (greater than 80%) of the sPEEK used in the preparation of the rejection
   layer.
       *  Sample 5
 5 The performance of the sample was evaluated when used to recover permeate
   from fresh raw milk over a prolonged period of time    (18 hours) at a constant
   pressure of 16 bar. A performance comparable with that of existing commercial
   operations was observed.
       *  Sample 6
 0 The sample was prepared to demonstrate the advantage provided by the
   inclusion of both cross-linking and hydrophilicitizing agents in the
   preparation of the rejection layer. The performance of the sample before and
   after a single CIP protocol according to the schedule provided in Table 8 was
   compared with that of Sample 1. Whereas the performance of the latter in
 5 terms of total solids rejection improved, the performance of Sample 6
   deteriorated. The poor durability of the sample is attributed to the absence
   of cross-linking and interpenetration of the polymers of the backing layer
   and rejection layer of the composite membrane.
       *  Samples 7 to 10
 0 These samples were prepared to evaluate the influence the proportion of SPEEK
   used in the preparation of the rejection layer had on performance      (in the
   absence of the hydrophilicitizing agent SSS).   The non-linear relationship
   between the proportion of SPEEK used and sodium chloride rejection is
   consistent with an expected increase in the electric field gradient of the
25 membrane and corresponding rejection of charged species     (Figure 20).  The
   optimal lactose and total solids rejection was obtained for the sample with a
   molar ratio of sPEEK:DVB of 0.6   (Figures 21 and 22).  The molar ratio of
   sPEEK:DVB that provided optimal flux was dependent on the feed stream      (Figure
   23).  For water the flux was highest for the sample with the lowest molar
30 ratio of 0.3. For milk the flux was highest for the samples with the lower
   molar ratios. For both feed streams a high molar ratio of sPEEK:DVB was
   incompatible with a high flux.
       *  Sample 11
   The sample was prepared using a high   (greater than 80%) solids content when
35 preparing the rejection layer. In addition, HEMA was substituted for SSS as
   the hydrophilicitizing agent due to the poor solubility of the latter in
   methanol. An extended curing period of 10 minutes was employed. At a pressure
                                           27

   of 20 bar the sample provided a comparable sodium chloride rejection      (Figure
   24) but at a negligible flux     (Figure 25).
       *   Sample 12
   The sample was prepared using an unmodified pPE as the backing layer. This
 5 necessitated the use of acetone/water as the solvent for the rejection layer
   formulation. Pursuant to the use of this solvent the proportion of sPEEK was
   reduced and the proportion of SSS increased with a total solid content of 6%
    (w/w). The curing was performed in a sealed polyethylene bag to prevent flush
   evaporation of acetone during the curing period of five minutes. The
 0 performance of the sample at 20 bar in terms of flux and sodium chloride and
   sucrose rejection was poor when compared with the performance of an analogous
   sample prepared using a grafted, hydrophilicitized backing layer.
   Although the invention has been described with reference to embodiments or
   samples it should be appreciated that variations and modifications may be
 5 made to these embodiments or samples without departing from the scope of the
   invention.    Where known equivalents exist to specific elements, features or
   integers, such equivalents are incorporated as if specifically referred to in
   this specification.     In particular, variations and modifications to the
   embodiments or samples that include elements, features or integers disclosed
 0 in and selected from the referenced publications are within the scope of the
   invention unless specifically disclaimed.      The advantages provided by the
   invention and discussed in the description may be provided in the alternative
   or in combination in these different embodiments of the invention.
   REFERENCED PUBLICATIONS
 5 Allmer et al    (1988) Surface modification of polymers. I. Vapor-phase
   photografting with acrylic acid Journal of Polymer Science, Part A:     Polymer
   Chemistry, 26(8),    2099-111.
   Allmer et al    (1989) Surface modification of polymers. II. Grafting with
   glycidyl acrylates and the reactions of the grafted surfaces with amines
30 Journal of Polymer Science: Part A:     Polymer Chemistry, 27, 1641-1652.
   Ang et al   (1980) Photosensitized grafting of styrene, 4-vinylpyridine and
   methyl methacrylate to polypropylene Journal of Polymer Science: Polymer
   Letters Edition, 18,    471-475.
   Anon   (2014) DOW FILMTECm Membranes -   Cleaning procedures for DOW FILMTEC FT30
35 elements Tech Fact    (Form No. 609-23010-0211).
                                             28

   Bai et al (2011)    Surface UV photografting of acrylic acid onto LDPE powder
   and its adhesion Shenyang Huagong Daxue Xuebao 25(2),    121-125.
   Callahan et al   (1990) Composite porous membranes and methods of making the
   same United States Patent No. 4,976,897.
 5 Callahan et al   (1992) Membranes from UV-curable resins United States Patent
   No. 5,102,552.
   Causserand and Aimar    (2010) 1.15 Characterisation of filtration membranes In
   Comprehensive membrane science and engineering Drioli, E;    Giorna, L. eds.
   Oxford Elsevier.
 0 Choi  (2002) Graft polymerisation, separators, and batteries including the
   separators United States patent no. 6,384,100.
   Choi  (2004) Battery separator United States patent no. 6,680,144.
   Choi  (2005) Graft polymerisation, separators, and batteries including the
   separators United States patent no. 6,955,865.
 5 Cussler et al   (1992) Process for making microporous membranes having gel
   filled pores and separations methods using such membranes United States
   Patent No. 5,160,627.
   Donato et al   (1993) Composite porous membranes United States Patent No.
   5,266,391.
 0 Donato et al   (1994) Composite microporous membranes United States Patent No.
   5,294,346.
   Donato, K.   (1994) Composite porous membranes United States Patent No.
   5,294,342.
   Drioli et al   (2003) Sulfonated PEEK-WC membranes for possible fuel cell
25 applications Journal of Membrane Science 228    (2004) 139-148.
   Edge et al   (1993) Surface modification of polyethylene by photochemical
   grafting with 2-hydroxyethylmethacrylate Journal of Applied Polymer Science,
   47,  1075-1082.
   El Kholdi et al    (2004) Modification of adhesive properties of a polyethylene
30 film by phtografting Journal of Applied Polymer Science 92(5),    2803-2811.
   Fisher et al   (1991) Microporous membranes having increased pore densities and
   process for making the same United States Patent No. 5,013,439.
                                            29

   Gao et al  (2013) Radiation cross-linked lithium-ion battery separator with
   high rupture temperature and high tensile strength and manufacture method
   Chinese patent application no. 2013-10196439       (publ. no. CN 103421208).
   Gillberg-LaForce et al    (1991) Modified microporous structures United States
 5 Patent No. 5,049,275.
   Gillberg-LaForce, G.   (1994) Microporous membrane from cold-rolled precursor
   film United States Patent No. 5,328,760.
   Jones, Jr.  (1990) Polybenzimidazole thin film composite membranes United
   States Patent No. 4,933,083.
 0 Kubota and Hata   (1990a) Distribution of methacrylic acid-grafted chains
   introduced into polyethylene film by photografting Journal of Applied Polymer
   Science, 41,  689-695.
   Kubota and Hata   (1990b) Benzil-sensitized photografting of methacrylic acid
   on low-density polyethylene film Journal of Applied Polymer Science, 40,
 5 1071-1075.
   Ogiwara et al  (1981) Photosensitized grafting on polyolefin films in vapor
   and liquid phases Journal of Polymer Science: Polymer Letters Edition, 19,
   457-462.
   Shentu et al  (2002) Factors affecting photo-grafting on low density
 0 polyethylene Hecheng Suzhi Ji Suliao 19(3),      5-8.
   Singleton et al   (1993) Polymeric sheet International Application No.
   PCT/GB92/01245  (publ. no. WO 93/01622).
   Tazuke and Kimura   (1978) Surface photografting. I.     Graft polymerization of
   hydrophilic hydrophilicitizing agents onto various polymer films Journal of
25 Polymer Science: Polymer Letters Edition, 16,       497-500.
   Xu and Yang  (2000) Study on the mechanism of LDPE-AA vapor-phase
   photografting system Gaofenzi Xuebao     (2000),  5, 594-598.
   Yang and Ranby  (1996) Bulk surface photografting process and its
   applications. II. Principal factors affecting surface photografting Journal
30 of Applied Polymer Science, 63(3),    545-555.
   Yao and Ranby  (1990a) Surface modification by continuous graft
   copolymerization. I. Photoinitiated graft copolymerization onto polyethylene
   tape film surface Journal of Applied Polymer Science, 40,       1647-1661.
                                             30

  Yao and Ranby  (1990b) Surface modification by continuous graft
  copolymerization. III. Photoinitiated graft copolymerization onto
  poly(ethylene terephthalate) fiber surface Journal of Applied Polymer
  Science, 41,  1459-1467.
5 Yao and Ranby  (1990c) Surface modification by continuous graft
  copolymerization. IV. Photoinitiated graft copolymerization onto
  polypropylene fiber surface Journal of Applied Polymer Science, 41, 1469
  1478.
  Zhang and Ranby  (1991) Surface modification by continuous graft
0 copolymerisation. II. Photoinitiated graft copolymerization onto
  polypropylene film surface Journal of Applied Polymer Science, 43, 621-636.
                                         31

CLAIMS
1)   An asymmetric composite membrane consisting essentially of a film of
     cross-linked sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone) adhered to a sheet of
     hydrophilic microporous polyolefin.
2)   The membrane of claim 1 where the film of cross-linked sulfonated
     poly(ether ether ketone) is an interpenetrating film of cross-linked
     sulfonated poly(ether ether ketone).
3)   The membrane of claims 1 or 2 where the sheet of hydrophilic microporous
     polyolefin is a sheet of hydrophilic microporous polyethylene.
4)   A method of preparing a sheet of hydrophilic microporous polyolefin
     comprising the steps of:
     a)   Contacting a sheet of microporous polyolefin with a
          solution of a hydrophilicitizing agent and a
          photoinitiator;
     b)   UVA irradiating the contacted sheet at an intensity and for
          a time sufficient to provide a graft polymer; and then
     c)   Removing non-grafted polymerised hydrophilicitizing agent,
     where the concentration of the photoinitiator in the solution
     is close to its limit of solubility in the solution.
5)   The method of claim 4 where the sheet of microporous polyolefin is a
     sheet of microporous polyethylene.
6)   The method of claim 5 where the hydrophilicitizing agent is 4-ethenyl
     benzenesulfonic acid.
7)   The method of any one of claims 4 to 6 where the solution is a solution
     in 40 to 60%  (v/v) acetone in water and the photoinitiator is
     benzophenone.
8)   The method of any one of claims 4 to 7 where the UVA irradiating is for a
     time no greater than 5 minutes.
                                        32

                                                  <removed-apn> <removed-date>
0 700 1000 1300 1600 1900 2200 2500 2800 3100 3400 3700 4000
                   Wavenumber (cm-1)
                         FIGURE 1
                         1/16

<removed-date>
                                  90
                                  80
                                  70
              Contact Angle ( )
                           <U+2701>
                                  60
<removed-apn>
                                  50
                                  40
                                  30
                                  20
                                  10
                                  0
                                       Ally alcohol          HEMA          SSS     Acrylic acid
                                                               FIGURE 2
                                   3.0E-10
                                   2.5E-10
                                   2.0E-10
              Permeability
                                   1.5E-10
                (ms-1Pa-1)
                                   1.0E-10
                                   5.0E-11
                                   0.0E+00
                                             Allyl alcohol          HEMA     SSS    Acylic Acid
                                                               FIGURE 3
                                                               2/16

<removed-date>                        80
                                   70
              Contact Angle ( )
                            <U+2701>
                                   60
<removed-apn>
                                   50
                                   40
                                   30
                                   20
                                   10
                                    0
                                   0.0E+00   5.0E-11   1.0E-10   1.5E-10    2.0E-10   2.5E-10   3.0E-10
                                                                    -1
                                                              Lp(m s Pa )-1
                                                               FIGURE 4
                                   160%
                                   140%
                                   120%
              % Water Absorption
                                   100%
                                    80%
                                    60%
                                    40%
                                    20%
                                     0%
                                             Allylic         HEMA             SSS        Arylic Acid
                                             Alcohol
                                                               FIGURE 5
                                                               3/16

<removed-date>
                         18%
                         16%
<removed-apn>
                         14%
                         12%
                         10%
                mDry
                     <U+2701>
                          8%
                          6%
                          4%
                          2%
                          0%
                                SSS     AA       HEMA   No Graft
                                      FIGURE 6
                         200%
                         150%
                         100%
              mWet
                <U+2701>
                         50%
                          0%
                                SSS     AA       HEMA   No Graft
                         -50%
                                      FIGURE 7
                                      4/16

<removed-date>
                                     90
                                     80
<removed-apn>
                                     70
                                     60
                                     50
                                 <U+2701>
                                     40
                                     30
                                     20
                                     10
                                     0
                                                SSS          AA     HEMA    No Graft
                                                      FIGURE 8
                          25.0
                          20.0
                          15.0
              B.Pt(Bar)
                          10.0
                          5.0
                          0.0
                                          SSS           AA        HEMA     No Graft
                          -5.0
                                                      FIGURE 9
                                                      5/16

<removed-date>                             50%
                                        40%
                                        30%
<removed-apn>
                               %RNaCl   20%
                                        10%
                                         0%
                                                     SSS         AA       HEMA      No Graft
                                        -10%
                                                           FIGURE 10
                              160
                              140
                              120
              JW,MILK (LMH)
                              100
                              80
                              60
                              40
                              20
                                0
                                               SSS          AA         HEMA      No Graft
                                                           FIGURE 11
                                                           6/16

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    100%
              90%
              80%
              70%
              60%
              50%
              40%
              30%
              20%
              10%
               0%
                     SSS   AA          HEMA   No Graft
                           FIGURE 12
                           7/16

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
8/16   FIGURE 13

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                             100%                                                   14.0
                                       90%
                                                                                              12.0
                                       80%
              Total Solids Rejection
                                       70%                                                    10.0
                                       60%
                                                                                                     Flux
                                                                                              8.0
                                       50%
                                                                                              6.0
                                       40%
                                       30%                                                    4.0
                                       20%
                                                                                              2.0
                                       10%
                                        0%                                                    0.0
                                              0   1   2   3   4     5    6   7   8   9   10
                                                              CIP protocol
                                                              FIGURE 14
                                                              9/16

<removed-date>                                                100
                                                           90
                                                           80
<removed-apn>
                                                           70
                                       Lactose Rejection
                                                           60
                                                           50
                                                           40
                                                           30
                                                           20
                                                           10
                                                               0
                                                                   0           5           10               15         20         25         30
                                                                                                     CIP protocol
                                                                                                 FIGURE 15
                                          100                                                                                                20
                                                      90                                                                                     18
                                                      80                                                                                     16
              Total Solids Rejection
                                                      70                                                                                     14
                                                      60                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                  Flux
                                                      50                                                                                     10
                                                      40                                                                                     8
                                                      30                                                                                     6
                                                      20                                                                                     4
                                                      10                                                                                     2
                                                           0                                                                                 0
                                                               0       2   4       6   8        10     12    14   16    18   20    22   24
                                                                                                CIP protocol
                                                                                                 FIGURE 16
                                                                                                10/16

<removed-date>
                                       100                                                                               20
                                          90                                                                             18
                                          80                                                                             16
              Total Solids Rejection
                                          70                                                                             14
<removed-apn>
                                          60                                                                             12
                                          50                                                                             10   Flux
                                          40                                                                             8
                                          30                                                                             6
                                          20                                                                             4
                                          10                                                                             2
                                              0                                                                          0
                                                  0   2       4       6         8        10       12       14       16
                                                                          CIP protocols
                                                                              FIGURE 17
                                              8
                                              7
                                              6
                                              5
                                       Flux   4
                                              3
                                              2
                                              1
                                              0
                                                  0       1       2       3         4         5        6        7        8
                                                                                 Hours
                                                                              FIGURE 18
                                                                          11/16

<removed-date>
                                        100
                                         90
                                         80
               Total Solids Rejection
                                         70
<removed-apn>
                                         60
                                         50
                                         40
                                         30
                                         20
                                         10
                                          0
                                                      Sample 6                  Sample 1
                                                                 FIGURE 19
                                        100
                                        90
                                        80
                                        70
              NaCl rejection
                                        60
                                        50
                                        40
                                        30
                                        20
                                        10
                                         0
                                          0.0   0.2       0.4     0.6     0.8   1.0        1.2   1.4
                                                                   sPEEK/DVB
                                                                 FIGURE 20
                                                                 12/16

<removed-date>
                                       100
                                       90
                                       80
                                       70
              Lactose rejection
<removed-apn>
                                       60
                                       50
                                       40
                                       30
                                       20
                                       10
                                        0
                                         0.0   0.2   0.4    0.6     0.8   1.0   1.2   1.4
                                                             sPEEK/DVB
                                                           FIGURE 21
                                       100
                                       90
                                       80
              Total solids rejection
                                       70
                                       60
                                       50
                                       40
                                       30
                                       20
                                       10
                                        0
                                         0.0   0.2   0.4    0.6     0.8   1.0   1.2   1.4
                                                             sPEEK/DVB
                                                           FIGURE 21
                                                           13/16

<removed-date>
                               120
                               110
                               100
                                90
                                80
<removed-apn>
                                70
              Flux              60
                                50
                                40
                                30
                                20
                                10
                                 0
                                  0.0   0.2   0.4     0.6        0.8      1.0   1.2   1.4
                                                          sPEEK/DVB
                                                    FIGURE 23
                               <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>
                               <U+273D><U+2735>
              NaCl rejection
                               <U+273B><U+2735>
                               <U+2739><U+2735>
                               <U+2737><U+2735>
                                <U+2735>
                                              MeOH/HEMA                DMAc
                                                    FIGURE 24
                                                    14/16

<removed-date>                340
                           320
<removed-apn>
                           300
                  Flux         10
                               5
                               0
                                      MeOH/HEMA              DMAc
                                                FIGURE 25
                          50                                             400
                          40
                                                                         300
                          30
              Rejection
                                                                         200   Flux
                          20
                                                                         100
                          10
                          0                                              0
                                    Sample 13        Hydrophilicitized
                                                FIGURE 26
                                            15/16

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          100
                          80
                          60
              Rejection
                          40
                          20
                           0
                                0   20   40          60   80   100
                                              Flux
                                         FIGURE 27
                                         16/16

