                                                 8
Abstract
A batten to interpose between cladding and timber substrate [e.g. framing or other]
elements, of an elongate strip like form of thickness of a desired set out distance. The batten
has across its width means whereby water and air can move through the strip like form and is
laminated with an insulating layer. Preferably the laminate batten is cut as a transverse strip of
a precursor material that has been extruded to define a sheet like material of the thickness of
the batten with extrusion axis extending passageways.

                                                                                    Regulation 3.2
                                           AUSTRALIA
                                      PATENTS ACT, 1990
                           COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A STANDARD PATENT
                                         ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:    GRAEME BRUCE WEBSTER
Actual Inventors:     WEBSTER, Graeme Bruce
Invention Title:      Battens
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us.

                                                 2
         The present invention relates to improvements in and/or relating to battens typified by
those discussed in some aspects in our New Zealand patent specification 536129/542948 or
Australian patent application 2005300123.
         The aforementioned patent specification, in respect of the cladding envelope of a
residential or commercial dwelling (and particularly but not solely the walls), proposes the use
of battens to ensure a battened cavity is not restrictive of drainage and/or ventilation fluid
flow. The battens proposed had the capability of distancing the cladding (whether with direct
or indirect contact with the cladding) from a framing structure (whether wood, metal or other,
and whether directly or indirectly in contact therewith eg, through a building paper or other
laid up material).
         Such a batten involved the use of a pre-cursor material that was extruded to define a
sheet like material of the thickness of the batten with the extrusion axis having a plurality of
passageways. The strip was then formed by separation at least substantially transverse to the
extrusion axis (whether by cutting or other separation process) into strip forms.
         The extrusion defines both outside webs or sheets and web or sheet spacing bridges.
There is preferably at least one interposed web or sheet between the outside web or sheets.
Whilst there can be irregularity, staggering or regularity in the provision of the passageways,
preferably there are three webs or sheets regions of the extrusion held apart by substantially
perpendicular bridging regions of the extrusion.
         The full content of New Zealand patent specification 536129/542948 is here included
by way of reference both in respect of its forms and methods of use.
         In our unpublished New Zealand patent application 578269 and unpublished Australian
patent application 2010224404 we discuss the merits of a partial fill of some passageways of
battens as in NZ 536129/542948 or AU 2005300123 to enhance the thermal barrier between
the framing structure and the batten spaced cladding.
         The present invention is to improvement in or an addition to the inventions of
specifications.
In one aspect, the invention broadly comprises:
A batten to be utilised as a spacer, or as part of the spacing support, between framing of a
building and an outer cladding of the building, the batten being of a lamination to provide:
            (i)  an elongate member (ie strip) derived from an extruded panel defining
                 passageways and/or channels, such a panel having been cut (by any means) at

                                                  3
                 least substantially transversely of the axis of the extruded passageways and/or
                 channels to define the elongate member, and
           (ii)  an elongate member of an insulating material.
According to another aspect, said batten is formed by co-extrusion.
According to another aspect, said batten is formed by adhesion of said elongate insulating
member to said elongate strip member.
According to another aspect, the elongate member (i) is of constant thickness and the
elongate member (ii) is of constant thickness.
According to another aspect, said thickness of said elongate member (i) and the thickness of
said elongate member (ii) is the same.
According to another aspect, said thickness of said elongate member (i) and the thickness of
said elongate member (ii) are different.
According to another aspect, the insulating member is adhered or co-extruded as a panel to a
panel-like form or a co-extruded panel-like form of panel defining passageways prior to both
the extruded panel (i) and the insulating panel (ii) being at least substantially simultaneously
cut into strips to provide the batten.
According to another aspect, an adhesion process between pre-cut strips of the extruded panel
(i) and other strips of the layer (ii) is used.
According to another aspect, the layer of the extrusion (i) can be of, for example,
polypropylene [extruded to define one or two layers of passageways] whilst the insulating
material strip can be of foamed polyurethane, polystyrene, or the like.
According to another aspect, the extrusion strip (i) is of aluminium.
According to another aspect, the thickness of layer (ii) is larger than layer (i).
In another aspect, the invention broadly comprises:
The use of a batten in accordance with any aspect of the present invention.
According to another aspect the invention broadly comprises, A structure which comprises or
includes:

                                                  4
          a frame forming part of a building,
          a plurality of battens each in accordance with an aspect of the present invention, such
battens being affixed (eg by nailing, screwing, riveting, adhesive and/or other) to the frame
directly or indirectly, and
          cladding spaced from the framing cladding the framing, the spacing being determined
at least to some extent by said plurality of battens.
According to another aspect, said battens are arrayed in such a way as to enable movement of
moisture or other fluid (eg air, water, etc) or to assist mechanical air movement or
convectional air movement or natural pressure differential air movement.
According to another aspect, the invention comprises a batten substantially as herein
described with reference to any one or more of the figures.
          In yet a further aspect the present aspect consists in a structure where the cladding
is spaced from a frame in a manner substantially as described at our website
www.cavibat.co.nz but using battens of the present invention.
          Preferred forms of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawing in which
          Figure 1 shows a preferred batten of the present invention with a single layer of
passageways in polypropylene and a like thickness layer of polystyrene or polyurethane foam,
and
          Figure 2 shows a double layer polypropylene variant.
         The preferred form of battens are substantially as described in our aforementioned
patent specification NZ536129/542948, the full content of which is here included by way of
reference and their use is as therein disclosed. In our website a calculation is given as to the
thermal conductivity of the extruded form. That thermal conductivity can be greatly reduced
by the provision of an insulating matrix (eg of the lamination of the present invention with the
insulation material as layer (ii)).
          Moreover, if desired, the batten sizes can be increased beyond those given in the
aforementioned patent specification if there is to be little other insulation over a region.
Preferably, however, the battened region is sufficiently enhanced as to thermal conductivity so
as not to lessen resistance to heat transfer of a wall, ceiling and/or roof region of thermal
insulation at that zone.
          Figure 1 shows the extrusion 1 and the insulation 2 being roughly of equally thickness.
The extrusion 1 is shown as having a single layer of square or rectangular passageways such
that the extrusion is of the form of parallel spaced sheets linked perpendicularly by webs which
define, between the sheets and the webs, the square or rectangular passageways.

                                                 5
         The only variation in the embodiment of Figure 2 is that there are three sheets and
two layers of such openings in the extrusion 3 to which the insulation 4 is attached.
         Persons will appreciate that the embodiments of Figures 1 and 2 are merely examples
and are not exhaustive of the possibilities. One example includes a foam layer being provided
on either side of the extrusion, still another possibility includes for the embodiment of Figure 2
the prospect of some or all of the passageways being filled with an insulating foam material for
example as disclosed in unpublished NZ578269.
         In use preferably a plurality of battens such as shown in Figure 1 can be affixed
against building paper on the outside of a frame (for example a steel stud or timber stud) and
then be nailed or otherwise be fixed. Thereafter the cladding can overlay the battens thereby
to define a cavity behind the cladding.
         Suitable cladding materials include any of those of or used by the companies
mentioned in the aforementioned website (eg products of for example James Hardie, Dimond,
Steel and Tube, etc).
         Reference herein to "cladding", whilst envisaging most preferably the cladding of the
building envelope, does not rule out internal cladding of a framed structure ie, the battens can
be used behind internal linings of a building structure (whether of exterior cladding materials
or not eg, plasterboard).
         Any suitable spacing is contemplated (eg. 18mm, 25mm or other).         For example
25mm is ideal as a roof batten and 18mm is ideal as a wall cladding spacer. Canada for
example allows a 10mm wall cladding spacer.
         Thus any ratio of thickness between the materials of (i) and (ii) can be used to satisfy
the overall spacing requirements and to meet the thermal barrier required.
         The present invention provides options providing an improved thermal resistivity over
the invention of each aforementioned patent specification.

                                                6
CLAIMS
1.           A cavity system for a dwelling including
                   a frame forming a part of a building,
                    building wrap being affixed directly to the outside of the frame,
                   a plurality of battens, such battens being affixed to the frame against the
             building wrap,
                   outer cladding spaced from the framing defining a cavity, the spacing being
             determined at least to some extent by said plurality of battens, and
                   wherein the batten being of a lamination formed by adhesion of
                         an elongate strip member derived from an extruded panel defining
                   enclosed passageways, and
                         an elongate insulating member derived from foamed insulating
                    material adhered to at least one side of the elongate strip member.
2.             A cavity system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said battens are affixed to the
     frame by nailing, screwing, riveting, and/or adhesive.
3.             A cavity system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
     extruded panel is cut at least substantially transversely of the axis of the extruded
     passageways to define the elongate strip member.
4.             A cavity system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
     elongate strip member is of constant thickness and the elongate insulating member is
     of constant thickness.
5.             A cavity system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said thickness of said elongate
     strip member and the thickness of said elongate insulating member is substantially the
     same.
6.             A cavity system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said thickness of said elongate
     strip member and the thickness of said elongate insulating member are different.
7.             A cavity system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the thickness of said insulating
     layer is larger than said strip layer.
8.             A cavity system as claimed in claims 3 to 7, wherein the insulating member is
     adhered or co-extruded as a panel to a panel-like form or a co-extruded panel-like form

                                              7
    of panel defining passageways prior to both the extruded strip panel and the insulating
    panel being at least substantially simultaneously cut into strips to provide the batten.
9.            A cavity system as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein an adhesion
    process between pre-cut strips of the extruded strip panel and other strips of the
    insulating layer is used.
10.           A cavity system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    layer of the strip extrusion is polypropylene.
11.           A cavity system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the layer of the strip extrusion
    is extruded to define one layer of passageways.
12.           A cavity system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the layer of the strip extrusion
    is extruded to define two layers of passageways.
13.           A cavity system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the extrusion
    strip is of aluminium.
14.           A cavity system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    elongate insulating member is polyurethane or polystyrene.
15.          A cavity system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
    battens are arrayed in such a way as to enable movement of moisture or other fluid or
    to assist mechanical air movement or convectional air movement or natural pressure
    differential air movement through the cavity.
16.          A cavity system as claimed in the preceding claim, wherein said battens are
    arrayed in such a way as to enable movement of air and/or water.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
