                                           ABSTRACT
    The invention discloses a receiver section towed by an airborne electromagnetic survey
    system, comprising a plurality of receivers, each receiver comprising at least one
    receiver coil. The invention further discloses an airborne electromagnetic survey
 5  system, comprising: (a) a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic
   field that induces a secondary electromagnetic field; and (b) a receiver section for
   detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, wherein the receiver section comprises a
   plurality of receivers, each receiver further comprising at least one receiver coil; and a
   tow assembly for an airborne electromagnetic surveying system, comprising a means
10 for suspending a receiver section from an aircraft, the receiver section comprising a
   plurality of receivers each receiver comprising at least one receiver coil.

        MULTIPLE RECEIVERS FOR AIRBORNE ELECTROMAGNETIC SURVEYING
    This application is a divisional of Australian application no 2013323090 filed on 30
    September 2013 and claiming priority from US 61/706,840. Australian application no
    2013323090 is the national phase entry of PCT application PCT/CA2013/000833 which
 5  was published as WO 2014/047730. The entire contents of each of these publications is
    hereby incorporated by reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention relates generally to airborne electromagnetic (EM) surveying
    systems and methods, and particularly to airborne EM systems comprising a plurality of
 0  receivers, each receiver comprising at least one receiver coil, for measuring magnetic
   fields or EM gradients.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   An airborne EM survey system generally includes a transmitter for generating a primary
   electromagnetic field that induces eddy currents in the earth. These eddy currents
 5 generate a secondary electromagnetic field or ground response. A receiver of the EM
   system then measures the response of the ground. The currents induced in the ground
   are a function of conductivity. By processing and interpreting the received signals, it is
   possible to estimate the distribution of conductivity in the subsurface.
   EM measurements can be made in either frequency domain or time domain. In a
20 frequency domain EM system, the transmitter generates a sinusoidal electromagnetic
   field at one or more frequencies. The amplitude and phase of the secondary field
   relative to the primary field are indicative of the subsurface conductivity. In a time
   domain EM system, transient pulses are applied to the transmitter during an ON-period
   to generate a primary electromagnetic field that induces a decaying secondary
25 electromagnetic field. The receiver measures the amplitude and decay characteristics of
   the secondary field.
   An airborne EM system's signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is an important indication of the
   effective depth of exploration of the EM system and its ability to recognize and measure
   a potential target. Various systems and methods for improving SNR have been known
30 in the art. For example, increasing the distance between the transmitter and receiver
                                                1

      may reduce system noise thereby improving the SNR. In time domain systems,
      increasing the size of the transmitter loop may help increase SNR. However, these
     conventional improvements are transmitter dependent and usually result in increased
     overall system size and complexity.
  5  Canadian Patent Application No. 2,748,278 proposes a passive geological surveying
     system using audio frequency magnetic (AFMAG) technology. The proposed system
     has a first aircraft towed receiver coil assembly and a second ground-based or airborne
     receiver coil assembly, wherein the differences in the audio magnetic field measured at
     the first and second receivers are used to interpret the location of the underground
  0  conductors. While this proposed system does not involve an active transmitter, it
     requires that the two receivers be sufficiently spaced apart, resulting in overall
     increased system size and complexity in computing the differences between the
     measurements at different locations.
    Therefore, there remains a need for a system that provides improvements to the SNR
 5  and/or target discrimination performance of an EM system, independent of the
    transmitter, and without significantly increasing the overall size and complexity of the
    system.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention improves the overall target discrimination performance and/or
 0  reduces the system operation noises of an EM system by providing an airborne EM
    system having two or more receivers.
    In accordance       with   one aspect, the present      invention provides   an  airborne
    electromagnetic survey system, comprising: a transmitter section for generating a
    primary electromagnetic field that induces a secondary electromagnetic field; and a
25  receiver section for detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, wherein the receiver
    section comprises: a modular receiver support structure comprising a plurality of serially
    connected tubular sections; and a plurality of receivers, each receiver disposed in one
    of the tubular sections and comprising at least one receiver coil responsive to the
    secondary electromagnetic field, wherein the modular receiver support structure defines
30  a plane and the plurality of receivers are distributed in the plane; and wherein adjacent
    receivers are spaced from each other within the modular receiver support structure
                                                  2

     within a range of spacing based on attributes of the receiver coils in the adjacent
      receivers.
      In another aspect, the present invention provides an airborne electromagnetic survey
     system, comprising: a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field
  5  that induces a secondary electromagnetic field, the transmitter section comprising a
     circular transmitter loop, a receiver support structure having a plurality of mounting
     locations, the receive support structures defining a plane; a receiver section for
     detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, the receiver section spaced from the
     transmitter section and comprising plural receivers, each mounted at a corresponding
 0   mounting position of the plurality of mounting locations of the receiver support structure,
     each receiver of the plural receivers comprising at least one receiver coil responsive to
     the secondary electromagnetic field, a common tow assembly attached to the
     transmitter section and the receiver section, wherein the plural receivers are distributed
     in the plane, and wherein adjacent receivers are spaced from each other within the
 5   receiver support structure within a range of spacing based on attributes of the receiver
     coils in the adjacent receivers.
    Another disclosed aspect provides an airborne electromagnetic survey system,
     comprising: a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field that
     induces a secondary electromagnetic field, the transmitter section comprising a circular
 O  transmitter loop; a receiver section for detecting the secondary electromagnetic field,
    the receiver section spaced from the transmitter section and comprising at least one
     receiver comprising     at   least one   receiver coil   responsive to the     secondary
    electromagnetic field; a common tow assembly attached to the transmitter section and
    the receiver section; and an aircraft, the common tow assembly in contact with the
25  aircraft and the transmitter section and the receiver section maintained at different
    altitudes below the aircraft by the common tow assembly. The receiver section may be
    located between the aircraft and the transmitter section.
    In a further disclosed aspect, there is provided an airborne electromagnetic survey
    system, comprising: a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field
30  that induces a secondary electromagnetic field; and a receiver section for detecting the
    secondary electromagnetic field, wherein the receiver section comprises: a modular
    receiver support structure comprising a plurality of serially connected tubular sections;
                                                  3

       and a plurality of receivers, each receiver disposed in one of the tubular sections and
       comprising at least one receiver coil responsive to the secondary electromagnetic field.
       In accordance with one disclosed aspect, there is provided an airborne electromagnetic
       survey system, comprising:
  5       (a)  a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field that induces
               a secondary electromagnetic field; and
          (b)  a receiver section for detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, wherein the
               receiver section comprises a plurality of receivers, each receiver further
               comprising at least one receiver coil.
10    In accordance with another disclosed aspect, there is provided a receiver section towed
      by an airborne electromagnetic survey system, comprising a plurality of receivers, each
      receiver comprising at least one receiver coil.
      In accordance with a further disclosed aspect, there is provided a tow assembly for an
     airborne electromagnetic surveying system, comprising means for suspending a
 5   receiver section from an aircraft, the receiver section comprising a plurality of receivers
     each receiver comprising at least one receiver coil; and means for suspending a
     transmitter section from the aircraft.
     Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
     following detailed description and the accompanying drawings, which illustrate, by way
O    of example, the principles of the invention.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     The invention will now be described by way of reference to the drawings, in which:
     Figure 1 is a schematic view of a receiver section according to an embodiment of the
     airborne EM system;
5    Figure 2 is a perspective view of a receiver section according to an embodiment of the
     airborne EM system;
     Figure 3 is a perspective top view of a receiver section according to an embodiment of
    the airborne EM system;
                                                   3a

        Figure 4 is a perspective side view of a receiver section according to an embodiment of the
        airborne EM system;
   5    Figure 5 is a perspective side view of a receiver comprising one or more receiver coils;
       Figure 6 is a schematic view of a single receiver section tow assembly comprising multiple
       receivers according to an embodiment of the airborne EM system;
  10   Figure 7 is a schematic view of a single receiver section tow assembly comprising multiple
       receivers attached serially along the tow assembly according to an embodiment of the
       airborne EM system;
       Figure 8 is a schematic view of multiple receiver section tow assemblies each comprising a
 15    single receiver according to an embodiment of the airborne EM system;
      Figure 9 is a schematic view of multiple receiver section tow assemblies each comprising
      multiple receivers according to an embodiment of the airborne EM system;
 20   Figure 10 is a schematic view of multiple receiver section tow assemblies each comprising
      multiple receivers attached serially along the tow assembly according to an embodiment of
      the airborne EM system;
     Figure 11 is a schematic perspective view of an illustrative embodiment of the airborne EM
25   system in an airborne position flying at surveying speeds.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     An aircraft towed EM survey system generally comprises a tow assembly further comprising
30   a transmitter section and a receiver section.
                                                       4

            The aircraft can be manned or unmanned power driven fixed-wing aeroplane,
                                                                                                  helicopter,
            airship or any other flying machine, as a person skilled in the art would appreciate.
     5      Referring to Figure 1, one embodiment of the receiver section 10 described herein comprises
           a plurality of receivers 20 and a receiver support structure 12 for mounting the receivers.
           Each receiver 20 is positioned in proximity to at least one neighbouring receiver 20.
           In one embodiment, the receivers 20 are positioned in proximity to each other, and may
                                                                                                          be
   10     disposed in any orientation relative to each other. Each receiver 20 comprises at least
                                                                                                        one
          receiver coil. The receiver 20 may independently detect the secondary electromagnetic
          fields.
          The receiver section 10 or the receiver support structure thereof may include a receiver
  15      housing 14 for enclosing at least one of the receivers 20. The receiver housing 14 isolates the
         receivers 20 from external forces and noises, and keeps at least some receivers 20 close to
         each other.
         In one embodiment, the receiver housing 14 can be a "bird" structure, which is an
 20      aerodynamic support structure that houses the EM receivers or sensors and other electronics.
        However, such an enclosure structure is not required in all situations. In some
                                                                                            embodiments,
        the at least one receiver 20 can be supported in its own housing or protective enclosure.
        Multiple receivers can take many forms, for example, in-plane multiple receivers as
25     illustrated in Figure 2 or platform multiple receivers as shown in Figure 3. A person skilled
       in the art would appreciate that multiple receivers of any shape or size which is suitable may
       be used.
       Referring to Figure 2, and according to one embodiment of the airborne EM system
30     described herein, the receiver section 10 comprises a plurality of receivers 20 supported by a
                                                         5

       substantially polygonal receiver support structure 12, wherein the receivers 20 are generally
       located in close proximity to their neighbouring receivers 20 and are disposed along a
       circumference of the receiver support structure 12.       While a polygonal receiver support
       structure 12 is depicted in Figure 3, a person skilled in the art would understand that a
   5  receiver support structure of any shape or size which is suitable may be used. Furthermore,
      the receivers 20 need not be identical and may be disposed in any orientation relative to each
      other.
      Preferably, the receiver support structure 12 is modular and comprises serially connected
 10   tubular sections which can internally house the at least one receiver 20 at one or more
      locations. Alternatively, the receivers 20 can be supported on the receiver support structure
      12 in any suitable manner.
      The receiver support structure 12 may be constructed to form a support for the receivers 20
 15   so that the configured distance between the receivers 20 and their relative orientations can be
     maintained substantially unchanged to provide stability of the receiver section 10. It is to be
      understood that rigid, non-rigid, semi-rigid or flexible receiver support structure 12 can be
     used depending on the requirements for a particular survey flight.
20   The embodiment illustrated in Figure 2 may further include at least one receiver 20
     positioned along a central axis that is substantially perpendicular to the plane defined by the
     receiver support structure 12, and being coupled to the receiver support frame 12 by a
     plurality of cross support means 24 such as cross ropes or cross bars or rods. At least one
     central receiver 20 may be disposed in a co-planar fashion with the receiver support frame
25   12, or may be concentric or co-axial with the receiver support frame 12. For example, the at
     least one central receiver 20 may be positioned above or below the plane as defined by the
     receiver support structure 12, or at the center of the receiver support structure 12.
     Referring to Figures 3 and 4, and according to a further embodiment of the airborne EM
30   system described herein, the receiver section 10 comprises a receiver support structure 12
                                                     6

         having a plurality of mounting locations in proximity to each other to mount a plurality of
         receivers 20. At least one of the receivers 20 can be housed in an enclosure of any suitable
         configuration, size and shape.       The receiver support structure 12 can be constructed to
         provide support for the receivers 20 and may include hollow portions or apertures to reduce
    5    the weight of receiver support structure 12. A person skilled in the art would understand that
         a rigid, semi-rigid or flexible receiver support structure 12 or enclosure can be used.
        The receiver 20 comprises one or more receiver coils 22 as shown in Figure 5. In the present
        disclosure, the non-limiting term "receiver coil" refers to a broad range of means for sensing
  10    electromagnetic fields, including various wires, induction magnetometers, and any associated
        electronics or circuitries for the proper functioning of the receiver coil.
        The receiver coils 22 may be identical to each other, or may comprise coils of various sizes,
        shapes, materials or other physical characteristics.
 15
        Each receiver coil array may have three coplanar coils 22 that are partially overlapping with
        each other. It should also be understood that the coils in a receiver coil array need not to be
        coplanar in all circumstances. In other words, the coils 22 can be disposed in separate planes
       or surfaces while overlapping with each other.
 20
       The receiver configuration described above, namely substantially juxtaposing a plurality of
       receivers or configuring each receiver to be positioned in close proximity to at least one
      neighbouring receiver, allows an increased amount of electromagnetic flux to pass through
      the receiver section, and therefore improves the overall signal sensitivity of the receiver
25    section.     In addition, grouping multiple receiver coils into an array provides an increased
      effective area of a receiver for secondary electromagnetic flux to pass through, and therefore
      improves the overall signal sensitivity of the receiver. Furthermore, configuring a receiver
      such that all of its receiver coils are located in close proximity to each other allows an
      increased amount of electromagnetic flux to pass through the receiver, thereby improving the
30    overall signal sensitivity of the receiver and the SNR of the EM system.
                                                         7

        In practice, one issue arising from using such a configuration is that placing receivers or
        receiver coils one next to another may create mutual inductance between the coils. Mutual
        inductance increases instrumentation noise or system noise and may significantly limit the
   5    receiver's ability to respond to the secondary electromagnetic fields and the receiver's
       response bandwidth.
       The present invention has discovered that the overall mutual inductance of coils somehow
       decreases significantly when multiple receivers, each having at least one receiver coil, are
  10   positioned close to their neighbouring receivers within a range of spacing that is dependent
       on various attributes of the coils. Based on this, the undesirable mutual inductance between
       the coils is minimized in the receiver section 10 described herein by maintaining close
       spacing between the receiver coils or between the receivers.
 15   As described above, receiver section 10 comprises multiple receivers 20 wherein each
      receiver has one or more receiver coils 22.       This receiver configuration provides some
      advantages over the current practice in the art.
      One advantage is that the receiver configuration described herein can be implemented
 20   independent from the transmitter.     In other words, improvement to the SNR of the EM
      system can be realized without increasing the transmitter size or modifying the distance or
     configuration relationship between the receiver section and the transmitter section.
     Advantageously, keeping multiple receivers in proximity to each other minimizes or reduces
25   the motion or vibration of a receiver relative to another, therefore improving the overall
     stability of the receiver section.
     Furthermore, maintaining the receivers in close spatial proximity may reduce deviation
     between the secondary response measurements taken at neighbouring receiver locations, thus
30   significantly simplifies the computation involved in determining the EM gradients of the
                                                     8

         earth response. For example, when the neighbouring receivers and respective receiver coils
         are configured to have substantially the same orientation, faster EM gradient computation
         can be achieved.
    5   As depicted in Figure 6, to maintain physical proximity between the receivers 20, a receiver
        section 10 may comprise multiple receivers 20 towed by a common receiver tow assembly
        13. The multiple receivers 20 are co-located in a single receiver section 10.
        In one embodiment as shown in Figure 7, the receivers 20 are serially connected within a
  10    common tow assembly 13 or a portion thereof and the receivers 20 are positioned in relative
        remoteness to each other. Each receiver 20 comprises at least one receiver coil. The receiver
        20 may independently detect the secondary electromagnetic fields.
        While a transmitter section is not shown in these Figures, a person skilled in the art would
  15   understand that the transmitter section can be configured in any suitable manner that is
       known in the art, for example, it can be towed below, concentric, or above the receiver
       section 10, or mounted to the aircraft.
       In some embodiments, flexible means, such as tow ropes, tension cables can be used to tow
 20    the receiver section 10. Alternatively, the receiver section 10 can be towed by more rigid
       means such as connecting rods, bars, struts or other similar structures. Any other rigid, non
      rigid, semi-rigid or flexible connections can also be used to provide the spacing or
      association between the receiver section and the rest of the airborne EM system.
25    Referring to Figures 8, 9 and 10, multiple receiver tow assemblies 13 may be used to tow the
      receiver section 10 having multiple receivers 20. Each tow assembly 13 may support at least
      one receiver 20. The multiple receiver tow assemblies 13 may have the same or different
      lengths. As such, the towed receivers 20 may operate at the same or different altitude during
      flight. In Figure 8, each receiver 20 is towed separately and supported by its receiver support
30    structure or protective housing structure.
                                                     9

         In Figure 9, each tow assembly 13 tows multiple receivers 20 which share a common
         protective housing structure.
    5   In Figure 10, each tow assembly 13 is towing multiple receivers 20 which are serially
        coupled, or attached to the tow assembly 13.
        The receivers 20 can be positioned in parallel tow assemblies or support structures so that
        they are substantially located in close proximity to each other or to their neighbouring
  10    receivers during flight. Therefore, by simply grouping the existing receivers in accordance
        with the spacing that is appropriate for the receivers and coils in use, SNR improvement can
       be realized.
       Furthermore, by locating multiple receivers 20 at a relatively remote distance and known
 15    position with respect to neighboring receivers 20, the shape of the secondary field can be
       measured at each individual transmitter location. Measurement of the field shape at each
       transmitter location is a technique used in terrestrial or marine geophysical exploration but
       has heretofore not been possible with airborne systems. The shape of the secondary field
       provides additional discrimination in the form of diagnostic information about the shape,
 20    orientation or position of a geological target.
       Additionally, data measured with multiple receivers 20 at a relatively remote distance and
      known position with respect to neighboring receivers 20 may be manipulated in processing to
      focus or orient the sensitivity of the receiver section 10. This focussing reduces the spatial
25    resolution of the system and improves target discrimination.
      When multiple receiver tow assemblies 13 are used, it may be desirable to reduce relative
      motion and vibration between the receivers 20 supported on different tow assemblies 13.
      Accordingly, the receiver section 10 may further comprise means for connecting the tow
30    assemblies 13 and relevant structures and means for stabilizing the receivers disposed in
                                                       10

        respective tow assembly. The connecting and stabilizing structures can be constructed to
        form rigid, non-rigid, semi-rigid or flexible coupling or connections.
        For example, when multiple receivers are towed in series by a tow assembly 13, the tow
   5   assembly 13 may be configured to comprise a main tow rope, a split rope portion where the
       main rope is splitting into at least two ropes coupled to stabilizing structures therebetween.
       Still further, for example, two or more spaced apart stabilizer bars can be coupled to the split
       ropes to form a stable and flexible support suitable for housing a receiver 20. A receiver 20
 10    as described in the present disclosure, with or without protective cover, can be securely
       mounted to the above stable and flexible support structures.         The tow assembly 13 may
       further comprise a converging portion where the at least two split ropes merge into another
      tow rope. The merged tow rope can be used as a connection rope to a transmitter section 4,
      another receiver 20, or any other component of the EM system described herein.
 15
      Stabilizer structures can also be used to provide stable and flexible coupling between
      multiple receiver tow assemblies 13. For example, when multiple receivers 20 are towed in
      parallel in at least two tow assemblies 13, the tow assemblies 13 may be coupled to
      stabilizing structures therebetween as described above. Such stabilizing structures can be
20    deployed at multiple positions along the lengths of the tow assemblies 13 to provide the
      overall stability of the receiver section 10.
     In some embodiments, the parallel tow assemblies 13 are connected to each other by rigid
     connecting means such as rods, joints, bars or the like. However, as a person skilled in the
25   art would appreciate, various rigid, non-rigid, semi-rigid or flexible supporting means and
     configurations are equally applicable in such an embodiment.
     A person skilled in the art would appreciate that the receiver section 10 described herein can
     be scaled according to the surveying task at hand.         For example, a large size aircraft or
                                                      11

             helicopter may readily carry more than one receiver sections as described in the present
             disclosure.
             The receiver section 10 described in the present disclosure can be used in a variety of
     5      airborne EM systems include time domain and frequency domain systems. The transmitter
            section 4 and receiver section 10 described herein may cooperate with each other during
            flight in any suitable configuration. For example, they can be configured to cooperate in
                                                                                                        a
            spaced apart relationship. Depending on the surveying tasks, system load capacity, and
                                                                                                      the
           availability of operating space, they can also be deployed in relatively close proximity,
                                                                                                       or
   10      substantially co-located or supported by common supporting means. Regardless of their
           relative position and configuration, various supporting means can be used to support
                                                                                                      the
          transmitter and receiver sections, including flexible, semi-rigid, or rigid support frames.
          In one embodiment, the transmitter and receiver sections are disposed in a common tow
  15      assembly 13 and are operative at different altitudes relative to the ground. Preferably, the
          transmitter section 4 comprises a transmitter loop 24 that has a substantially circular or
         polygonal periphery.       The receiver section 10 may be positioned above or below the
         transmitter section 4, as illustrated in Figure 11, and is offset from the center of the
         transmitter section. However, it is to be understood that the spacing between the transmitter
 20      section 4 and the receiver section 10 can also be maintained by a concentric configuration, or
         in a coplanar fashion. For example, in one embodiment, the receiver section 10 is positioned
        above the transmitter section 4 and in between the aircraft and the transmitter section 4.
        In one embodiment, the receiver section 10 is located at the center of the transmitter section
25     4. Preferably, the centrally located receiver section 10 is coupled to the transmitter section 4
       using cross support structures such as cross ropes 44, as shown in Figure 11. A transmitter
       driver 40 can be co-located with the receiver section 10 or can be placed at a different
       location. In case the receiver section 10 and the transmitter driver 40 are both located at the
       center of the transmitter loop, it is preferable that a transmitter platform rope is used to
                                                        12

      support the transmitter driver 40 from the tow assembly 2 to maintain the planar stability of
      the transmitter loop 24.
     In some embodiments, flexible means, such as tow ropes, tension cables can be used to
  5  connect or interconnect the transmitter section 4 and the receiver section 10. Alternatively,
     the transmitter section is connected or coupled to the receiver section by rigid means such as
     connecting rods, bars, struts or other similar structures.     Any other rigid, semi-rigid or
    flexible connections can also be used to provide the spacing or association between the
    transmitter section and the receiver section.
10
    Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to
    certain preferred embodiments thereof, other embodiments and modifications are possible.
    Therefore, the scope of the appended claims should not be limited by the preferred
    embodiments set forth in the examples, but should be given the broadest interpretation
15  consistent with the description as a whole.
                                                  13

          The claims defining the invention are as follows:
          1.      An airborne electromagnetic survey system, comprising:
                  a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field that induces
         a secondary electromagnetic field; and
   5              a receiver section for detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, wherein
                                                                                                 the
         receiver section comprises:
                 a modular receiver support structure comprising a plurality of serially connected
        tubular sections; and
                 a plurality of receivers, each receiver disposed in one of the tubular sections
 10    and comprising at least one receiver coil responsive to the secondary electromagnetic
       field,
                wherein the modular received support structure defines a plane and the plurality
       of receivers are distributed in the plane;
                wherein adjacent receivers are spaced from each other within the modular
 5    receiver support structure within a range of spacing based on attributes of the
                                                                                           receiver
      coils in the adjacent receivers.
      2.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, further comprising:
                an aircraft; and
               a tow assembly in contact with the aircraft and at least one of the transmitter
0    section and the receiver section for suspending the transmitter section or
                                                                                      the receiver
     section from the aircraft.
     3.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 2, wherein the tow
     assembly further comprising at least one stabilizer structure attached
                                                                                       to the tow
     structure and the modular receiver support structure for stabilizing at least
                                                                                        one of the
5    plurality of receivers.
                                                    14

       4.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 2, wherein the receiver
       section is positioned above the transmitter section between the aircraft and the
       transmitter section.
       5.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein:
  5              the modular receiver support structure is configured to maintain a fixed distance
      between receiver coils in the receivers and a fixed orientation of each receiver coil
      within the modular receiver support structure.
      6.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein:
                the receiver section further comprises at least one additional receiver disposed
 10   along an axis perpendicular to the plane and comprising at least one additional receiver
      coil responsive to the secondary electromagnetic field.
      7.       The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 6, wherein:
               the modular receiver support structure comprises a circle; and
               the at least one additional receiver is disposed along a central axis of the circle.
 5   8.        The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 6, wherein the at least one
     additional receiver is disposed in the plane.
     9.       The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 8, wherein:
              the modular receiver support structure comprises a circle; and
              the at least one additional receiver is concentric with the circle.
0    10.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 6, wherein the at least one
    additional receiver is disposed above the plane between the aircraft and the modular
    receiver support structure.
    11.       The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 1, wherein the modular
    receiver support structure comprises a polygon.
5   12.       An airborne electromagnetic survey system, comprising:
                                                   15

                 a transmitter section for generating a primary electromagnetic field that induces
        a secondary electromagnetic field, the transmitter section comprising a circular
        transmitter loop;
                 a receiver support structure having a plurality of mounting locations, the receive
   5   support structure defining a plane;
                a receiver section for detecting the secondary electromagnetic field, the receiver
       section spaced from the transmitter section and comprising plural receivers, each
       mounted at a corresponding mounting position of the plurality of mounting locations of
       the receiver support structure, each receiver of the plural receivers comprising at least
 10    one receiver coil responsive to the secondary electromagnetic field,
                a common tow assembly attached to the transmitter section and the receiver
       section,
                wherein the plural receivers are distributed in the plane, and
                wherein adjacent receivers are spaced from each other within the receiver
 5    support structure within a range of spacing based on attributes of the receiver coils in
      the adjacent receivers.
      13.       The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 12, further comprising an
      aircraft, the common tow assembly in contact with the aircraft and the transmitter
      section and the receiver section maintained at different altitudes below the aircraft by
20   the common tow assembly.
      14.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 13, wherein the receiver
     section is located between the aircraft and the transmitter section.
      15.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 14, wherein the receiver
     section is offset from a central axis of the circular transmitter loop of the transmitter
 5   section.
     16.       The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 12, wherein the receiver
     section further comprises at least one additional receiver disposed along an axis
                                                    16

    perpendicular to the plane and comprising at least one additional receiver coil
    responsive to the secondary electromagnetic field.
    17.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 12, wherein each receiver
    of the receiver section has plural coils orthogonal to each other.
 5  18.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 17, further comprising a
   transmitter driver.
   19.      The airborne electromagnetic survey system of claim 18, further comprising a
   transmitter platform rope in contact with the transmitter driver, the circular transmitter
   loop and the common tow assembly to support the transmitter driver from the tow
10 assembly and to maintain a planar stability of the circular transmitter loop.
                                                 17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
